Benjamin Franklin
State: Pennsylvania
Signed Constitution: True
Surviving papers tier: rich
Best public-domain source note: Founders Online (complete) + Works of Benjamin Franklin (Sparks, 10 vols, PD)



===== Benjamin Franklin - Founders Online (complete) + Works of Benjamin Franklin (Sparks, 10 vols, PD) (vol. 1) =====
Source: https://archive.org/download/worksofbenjaminf01fran/worksofbenjaminf01fran_djvu.txt

THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

VOLUME I

JyUf

//

E
305.

THE WRITINGS

V. 1

OF

COLLECTED AND EDITED
WITH A LIFE AND INTRODUCTION

BY

ALBERT HENRY SMYTH

VOLUME I

Wefo ff otfc
THE MACMILLAN COMPANY

LONDON : MACMILLAN & CO., LTD.
All rights reservtd

COPYRIGHT, 1905,
BY THE MACMILLAN COMPANY.

Set up and clectrotypcd. Published October, 1905.

V-

NortuooD T&tn*

J. 8. Cuihlnjf A Co. — Berwick A Smith Co.
Norwood, M»S8., U.S.A.

TO

JOHN BIGELOW

WHO AS CONSUL AT PARIS AND AS MINISTER TO FRANCE
FOLLOWED THE ILLUSTRIOUS FOOTSTEPS OF

BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

AND IN A LONG AND BENEFICENT CAREER HAS

CONSPICUOUSLY EXHIBITED
IMMUTABLE CONFIDENCE IN POPULAR GOVERNMENT AND

EXALTED DEVOTION TO POPULAR WELFARE

THIS WORK IN GRATEFUL REMEMBRANCE OF MUCH KINDNESS

IS MOST RESPECTFULLY DEDICATED

BY

THE EDITOR

PREFACE

THE writings of Benjamin Franklin have been several
times published. It is nearly ninety years since William
Temple Franklin completed the long delayed edition of his
grandfather's works; it is seventy years since Jared Sparks
began the publication of his ten laborious volumes; and it
is almost twenty years since Mr. John Bigelow prepared
what then seemed to be the final edition of Franklin's works
and correspondence.

W. T. Franklin's edition is no longer of the slightest value
to the student of history. He was devoid of literary facility,
and was overwhelmed by the magnitude of his task. In
his work there is neither sense of proportion nor judgement
in selection. Jared Sparks, by unwearied industry, rendered
a great service to American history, and preserved from
oblivion many historical papers of the highest importance;
but he was disloyal to his author, and took liberties with his
documents. He corrected and altered at pleasure. In an
attempt to give a classic pose to his heroes, he revised spell-
ing and grammar, and omitted passages which he deemed
beneath the dignity of history, and gave no sign withal that
he had tampered with either style or substance.

Mr. Bigelow based his edition upon Mr. Stevens's collec-
tion of Franklin papers, then recently purchased by the
United States Government, and published much that was
new and invaluable. Unquestionably his edition is the best
that has yet appeared, albeit that, here and there, he has over-
looked, or at least not corrected, the defective transcripts
made by Sparks.

viii PREFACE

At the present time, when preparations are making for
an international celebration of the two hundredth anniver-
sary of Franklin's birth, it has been thought that a revised
and authoritative edition of his Works might be possibly the
best and most enduring monument that can be reared to
his memory.

The present edition is the result of a personal examination
of all the extant documents thereunto appertaining in Europe
and America, accessible to the editor. No time or expense
has been spared to discover the whereabouts of Franklin's
manuscripts and to secure accurate and literal transcripts
thereof. Many manuscripts have been discovered since Mr.
Bigelow's edition went to press in 1887. In the University
of Pennsylvania alone there is a collection of more than eight
hundred of Franklin's private papers, which was brought to
light in 1903, and has never been seen until now by any editor.

The American Philosophical Society is the depositary of
the most valuable portion of Franklin's manuscripts. It is
an immense collection. The stoutest heart might well be
appalled by the volume and range of those thirteen thousand
documents, comprising a correspondence carried on in nine
languages with all the world, and dealing with every theory
of philosophy and every scheme of politics familiar and
unfamiliar in the eighteenth century. For the first time
they have now been studied minutely, and every sentence
subjected to careful examination.

I have pursued the quest after Franklin holographs in
England, France, Germany, Austria, and Italy, and I be-
lieve I have examined nearly every document that is known
to exist in Europe and America.

I have striven to make the present edition as complete

PREFACE ix

and as accurate as human industry can make it. Every
document here reprinted has been copied faithfully from the
original; every point, capital letter, and eccentricity of
spelling being loyally preserved. This accords with the
requirements of modern historical research, and corresponds
to Franklin's own feeling and desire. He wrote to the
printer Woodfall, enclosing a contribution to his paper,
asking him to take care that the compositor observed "strictly
the Italicking, Capitalling and Pointing." And he told his
son that his "edict of the King of Prussia" had been re-
printed in the London Chronicle, "but stripped of all the
capitalling and italicking that intimate the allusions and mark
the emphasis of written discourses, to bring them as near as
possible to those spoken. Printing such a piece all in one
even small character, seems to me like repeating one of
Whitefield's sermons in the monotony of a school boy."

In making these fresh copies from the original manu-
scripts, I have corrected more than two thousand errors
in the previous editions. Some of these errors are wilful,
others the result of carelessness; most of them represent
important alterations of language, perversions of meaning,
and omissions of necessary details. Many letters hitherto
marked as "incomplete," "mutilated," etc., have now been
completed by the discovery of the missing leaves. Letters
have been carelessly assigned to persons to whom they were
never addressed, and their authorship has been ascribed to
persons by whom they were never written. A thorough
examination of the originals has resulted in the correction
of many of these errors, and the determination of the history
of letters that have hitherto been regarded as doubtful.

Sparks published 1016 of Franklin's manuscripts, whereof

x PREFACE

407 had not appeared in any previous collection. He rounded
out his ten volumes by the insertion of 372 letters addressed
to Franklin, whereof 213 had not previously been printed.
Mr. Bigelow published 1357 of Franklin's manuscripts,
whereof 380 were not printed by Sparks. His allotted space
permitted him to include only 210 letters to Franklin, whereof
all but 21 are to be found in Sparks.

In the present edition are 385 letters and 40 articles not
previously printed by any editor, all of which are from the
pen of Franklin. Some of the best of his writings are to be
found in the eighteenth-century newspapers, where appar-
ently no thorough search has hitherto been made for them.
I have examined all the issues of the New England Courant,
Pennsylvania Gazette, American Weekly Mercury, Goddard's
Pennsylvania Chronicle, London Daily Advertiser, London
Chronicle, and London Packet. For the first time in any
edition the "Dogood Papers" are here reprinted from the
Courant. They are the earliest of young Franklin's com-
positions and highly interesting; they show how early his
mind was bent in the direction it followed through life,
and how early he acquired the fluency and precision of his
literary style.

I have printed several characteristic essays from the Penn-
sylvania Gazette which have escaped the notice of other
editors, and certain political papers from the Pennsylvania
Chronicle which Franklin himself recorded as worthy of
preservation.

Nearly all the prefaces to "Poor Richard's Almanac"
have been reprinted because they best show the qualities
of Franklin's style. An early "memorial" in Franklin's
handwriting , an autograph report made by him of

PREFACE xi

Pitt's speech upon the Stamp Act, and many letters of great
scientific interest and political importance are for the first
time here printed.

The letters which I have published from other writers
to Franklin have been mainly chosen for their relation to
letters from Franklin that appear elsewhere in the text.
Certain others are, in nearly every case, of unusual historical
value, not elsewhere published. I would call particular
attention to the letters from Benjamin Vaughan and David
Hartley, two of Franklin's English friends who kept him
informed as to the policy of parties and the trending of public
opinion in England during the Revolutionary period.

The extraordinary letter of John Paul Jones (March 6,
1779) I have printed in full, although it is of great length,
because of its remarkable interest, and because it exhibits
the confidence that Jones reposed in Franklin and illustrates
the reverential regard in which he held him. Letters written
in French are reprinted in that language; those in Latin,
Italian, German, and Spanish are translated.

It has been possible to include much new matter by the
exclusion of a few slight unmeritable essays, and the rejec-
tion of certain works which Franklin declared he did not
write. In their zeal for the fame of Franklin, his editors
have too hastily ascribed to him works which are now known
to be by other hands. They have reprinted "The Prin-
ciples of Trade," which was written by George Whatley;
essays "On Government," written by John Webbe; "An
humble Petition presented to Madame Helve'tius by her
Cats," written by Abbe* Morellet; and "A True State of
the Proceedings in the Parliament of Great Britain," written
by Arthur Lee; the nature of these several omissions and

xii PREFACE

the reasons for passing judgement upon them will be found
set forth in the Introduction. I have ignored the coarse
Rabelaisian humour of the letter to The Academy of Brussels,
though it excited the laughter of a Spanish grandee and won
the approval of an English scientist. In common with cer-
tain other bagatelles, which have occasionally crept into the
twilight of furtive and surreptitious publication, this letter
was never intended for any other career than circulation
among the author's private friends. I have omitted the
voluminous "Historical Review of Pennsylvania" because
Franklin assured Hume that it was not of his writing; but
I have included the Canada pamphlet because I have found
the problem of its authorship so difficult, and the question
of the relative shares of Franklin and Jackson so intricate,
that I am quite unable to unloose its Gordian knot.

A serious scholastic defect in previous editions is the lack
of any indication as to the places where the originals of the
printed documents are to be found.

In the present edition I have invariably named in each case
the collection, public or private, which is the home of every
manuscript that I have examined, and of every one that I
have been able to trace.

I have tried to be brief and sparing in annotation, bearing
in mind the sarcasm of John Quincy Adams concerning one
of my predecessors, that he had impoverished his edition
with his notes.

The completion of this long and laborious task would
have been impossible but for the cordial and unstinted
assistance of many Franklinians, to whom the editor is under
heavy obligations. More is their due than more than all
can pay. I am deeply indebted to the custodians of the

PREFACE xiii

public collections of Franklin's papers. Chief of all stands
Dr. I. Minis Hays, the Librarian of The American Philo-
sophical Society, from whom came the first suggestion of
this undertaking, and who has never failed to further its
progress by encouragement and fruitful suggestion. It is
due to his pride in The Philosophical Society's possession
of the Franklin papers, and to his urgent enthusiasm and
unsleeping care, that they have been admirably classified
and calendared and made easily available to scholars.

Mr. Worthington C. Ford, Chief of the Division of Manu-
scripts of the Library of Congress, has cheerfully responded
to numberless calls upon his limited time and illimitable
knowledge. He holds it a vice in his goodness not to do
more than he is requested, and I am beholden to him for
many kindnesses, without which this work would be shorn of
some of its fairest additions.

The collection of Franklin papers recently acquired by
the Library of the University of Pennsylvania was promptly
and generously placed at my service. Never before had
editorial eyes rested upon these valuable and voluminous
historical records. For this opportunity I gladly thank
Dr. S. Weir Mitchell, who procured the collection, and whose
kindness is unending, and Dr. Morris Jastrow, the learned
Librarian of the University.

In Europe I am under especial obligations to Mr. Hubert
Hall, the Deputy Keeper of the Public Records in London,
and to M. Louis Farges, Chef du Bureau Historique, De-
partement des Affaires Etrangeres, Paris.

Mr. H. Buxton-Forman, C.B., Assistant Secretary of the
General Post-office, London, kindly permitted me to consult
the "American Letter Book," "The Commission Book,"

xiv PREFACE

and the general account books, containing official correspond-
ence with Franklin as Deputy Postmaster-General for the
North American colonies, with balances of his accounts.

Although whole libraries of Franklin's papers are con-
tained in the great public collections of two continents,
they are far from comprising all the products of that fertile
and most busy pen. They lie like "scattered sedge afloat,"
dispersed far and wide over the world, and found at times
in most unlikely places. Many owners of such papers have
admitted me to their private collections and permitted copies
to be made for publication. The family of the late Alex-
ander Biddle, Esq., of Chestnut Hill, Philadelphia, very
generously allowed me to examine the papers of Jonathan
Williams, the grandnephew of Franklin, where, among a
variety of documents both French and English, I found
twenty of Franklin's letters. For permission to publish
some of these, I am greatly indebted to Mr. Louis A. Biddle
and Miss Marion Biddle.

The important correspondence of Franklin with Peter
Collinson has but recently been discovered, and is in the
possession of Mr. J. Pierpont Morgan. Twelve letters
throwing much light on the beginnings of electrical study,
and illustrating the attitude of Franklin toward the pro-
prietary government, are here printed.

Mrs. L. Z. Leiter, who owns the valuable correspondence
of Franklin and David Hartley, M.P., comprising sixty-
five manuscripts relating to the exchange of prisoners and
to the treaty of peace, graciously gave me every facility
for examining and copying them.

Hon. S. W. Pennypacker, Governor of Pennsylvania,
courteously brought to me the correspondence of Franklin

PREFACE xv

with William Strahan, and a holograph copy made by Frank-
lin of Pitt's speech on the Stamp Act. His collections of
materials for the illustration of the history of Pennsylvania
are unrivalled, and he withheld from me nothing that would
add more "feathers to my wings."

Forty-eight letters written by Franklin to Mary Hewson
were kindly laid before me by the latter' s great-grandson,
Dr. T. Hewson Bradford. These letters had all appeared
in print, but I found that Sparks had dealt with them with
his unfortunate inaccuracy, and I have been able, by careful
collation, to replace omitted paragraphs, and to restore to
the letters characteristic personal touches which Sparks
had unjustifiably suppressed as "beneath the dignity of
history."

Mr. Charles Francis Adams, in addition to many helpful
courtesies in Boston, opened to me the great manuscript
collections of "the House of Adams," and enabled me to
verify the correspondence between Franklin and John Adams.

I gladly thank Dr. F. B. Dexter, Librarian of Yale Uni-
versity, for exact copies of Franklin's letters to Jared Eliot,
which came to the library of Yale from Rev. Thomas F.
Davies, in 1874.

In numerous private autograph collections I found inter-
esting letters which sometimes cleared up doubtful passages
in Franklin's career. I may particularly mention the col-
lections of Mr. Eliot Reed, of Earlsmead, Hampstead Heath ;
Mr. Simon Gratz, of Philadelphia; Mr. William F. Have-
meyer and Mr. Adrian H. Joline, of New York; and Mr.
John Boyd Thacher, of Albany.

The great kindness of strangers is a notable encourage-
ment to him who is engaged in any arduous enterprise. From

xvi PREFACE

many persons quite unknown to me came valuable frag-
ments of information, and M. Mossant, Conseiller Ge'ne'ral,
Bourg-de-Pe'age, France, entrusted to the Atlantic and to me
the original of a highly characteristic letter from Franklin
to Mr. Viny.

Although such abundant stores of Franklin's papers
exist, much, I fear, has been for ever lost. I have sought
in vain to trace the letters that Franklin wrote to three of
his most intimate and faithful correspondents: Jonathan
Shipley, Bishop of St. Asaph's; Sir Edward Newenham,
member of the Irish Parliament; and Jan Ingenhousz,
physician to Maria Theresa.

Archdeacon Thomas, of Llandrinio Rectory, kindly as-
sisted me in my quest for the Shipley correspondence. The
present representative of the bishop, Mrs. Rowley Conway,
of Bodrhyddon, knows nothing of the fate of the papers,
and I have been unable to obtain any information concerning
them.

Sir Edward Newenham and Franklin were close friends.
They exchanged gifts and letters. Franklin sent Newen-
ham a bust of himself, and Newenham sent Franklin a
Galway car and harness. Franklin tried to have Newen-
ham's son appointed to the diplomatic service of the United
States. Newenham was passionately devoted to the Ameri-
can cause. Upon hearing of the death of Montgomery at
Quebec, he appeared in Parliament dressed in deep mourn-
ing. He wrote numerous political tracts under the names
'Brutus,' ' Junius,' and 'Leonidas.' Many letters from him
to Franklin are extant, but only three addressed to him
by Franklin have been discovered. Dr. Edward Dowden
made researches for me in County Cork, but could learn

PREFACE xvii

nothing of the lost letters, and Captain H. Newenham, of
the Royal Fusiliers, tells me that he fears Sir Edward's
papers have been destroyed for family reasons.

The loss of Franklin's letters to Ingenhousz is particu-
larly to be deplored. Ingenhousz was an eminent scientist,
a physician of great distinction, and enjoyed the confidence
of the Empress Maria Theresa and of Joseph II. He cor-
responded with Franklin upon questions of medicine, natural
history, and electricity, and through him Franklin influenced
to some extent the political opinion of Austria. Nearly a
hundred letters from him to Franklin exist, covering a wide
range of subjects, and exciting eager curiosity to see Franklin's
replies. Of such replies only fifteen have been published,
and all of them from rough drafts in The American Philo-
sophical Society or Library of Congress. I inquired of Dr.
Reinhold Koser, General Director of the Prussian Archives,
and the chief living authority upon the times of Frederick
the Great; and I inquired of Hofrat Dr. Winter, Direktor
des Haus-Hof- und Staats-archiv, Vienna, and upon hear-
ing nothing of the letters in Germany or Austria, I despaired
of discovering them, when I unexpectedly learned that Dr.
Julius Wiesner, of Vienna, the celebrated botanist, was
writing a book upon Ingenhousz and his relation to Franklin.
I immediately entered into correspondence with Dr. Wiesner,
and learned that Ingenhousz's papers had been sold at auction
sixty years ago. A portion of them became the property
of Dr. Oskar, Freiherr von Mitis, in Vienna, but there were
no Franklin letters among them. In 1901 another inter-
esting little bundle of Ingenhousz's letters was sold by Gil-
hofer and Ranschburg, in Vienna. Here were letters from
Franklin to Ingenhousz dated September 19, 1769, and April

xviii PREFACE

26, 1777; also a copy of Franklin's paper, "Comparison of
Great Britain and the United States in regard to the Basis
of Credit in the two Countries" , in Franklin's hand,
with a translation by Ingenhousz, evidently intended for
the consideration of the empress. For all that is new in
this work concerning the correspondence and the relation
between Franklin and Ingenhousz, I am indebted to Dr.
Julius Wiesner and to Baron von Mitis.

I tried to discover the letters that must have passed be-
tween Franklin and Bentley, the partner of Wedgwood.
Not one of them is known to exist. F. H. Wedgwood, Esq.,
of Etruria, writes me, "What has happened to the Bentley
letters in the Wedgwood-Bentley correspondence (the Wedg-
wood ones are being published privately by the Dowager
Lady Farrer) is a mystery."

Many of the letters written by Franklin to his sister Jane
Mecom were destroyed by mice; children rummaged the
correspondence of Franklin and Francis Hopkinson; the
letters to Dr. John Jeffries were destroyed in the fire that
burnt his mansion in Boston in 1820; and the same fate
befell the Franklin letters among the papers which Noble
Wymberley Jones had saved from the Revolution, when the
flames destroyed his house in 1796.

I am much indebted to the Hopkinson family for a sight
of their family papers, which are now carefully and wisely
guarded ; to Dr. B. Joy Jeffries, for information concerning
his grandfather's diary and life in Europe; and to Mr. W.
J. DeRenne, descendant of N. W. Jones, for a letter from
Jones to Franklin on the political situation in Georgia.

I sought to verify the correspondence with Lord Kames,
but was told by H. S. Home-Drummond, Esq., that the

PREFACE xix

letters were not at Blair-Drummond, nor could he imagine
what had become of them.

Little of Franklin's correspondence with scientific men
can now be recovered. He must have written many letters
to Erasmus Darwin, but they are not to be found in the
collection of the latter' s papers kept at Newnham Grange,
Cambridge; and Professor George H. Darwin thinks "they
must have been removed by some one long ago, as they
would otherwise surely be there."

Sir Robert Ball tried in vain to trace for me the letters
which were written to Maskelyne and Sir William Herschel.
The records of the Royal Observatory, Greenwich, are very
scanty before the time of Sir George Airey. Mr. Alexander
S. Herschel could find at Slough only a copy of the letter
written by his grandfather, Sir William Herschel, to Franklin,
February 18, 1787. Mr. Herschel says in his letter to me:
"I should add that among the Herschel Papers here in
preservation hardly a single autograph or copied letter
from other savants to grandfather are to be found; as if
they had all been taken with her to Hanover, perhaps, by
Miss C. Herschel, or were otherwise distributed, perhaps,
during the lifetimes of Sir W. and Miss C. Herschel. It
is difficult to explain how so little, or hardly any vestige
should remain of what must, in a long lapse of years, have
at last become quite a bulky correspondence!"

I was more fortunate with regard to the letters that passed
between Franklin and le Due de Nemours, and received
from the latter's great-grandson, Colonel Henry A. Du Pont,
copies of all their correspondence.

I have attempted in this volume to review and to describe
all the writings of Franklin. I have approached the task

JDI PREFACE

with, I hope, due timidity and humbleness. To perform
it to full satisfaction requires the robust scholarship of those
sons of Anak, who before these lesser days of the specialist
took all knowledge to be their portion. I believe that no
attempt has ever been made to take a comprehensive survey
and estimate of Franklin's work, but the recent scientific
essays of Arthur Schuster, J. J. Thomson, Sir Oliver Lodge,
and William Garnett have shown how far Franklin "dipt
into the future," and "saw the vision of the world and all
the wonder that would be."

I have also tried to complete the narrative of his life from
the point when, to our unending regret, he ceased to tell the
story; and I have hope that in the critical Introduction,
the reprint of the Autobiography, and in the review of the
later life, which will appear as a terminal essay in the tenth
volume, nearly everything of consequence with regard to
that brave and busy career will be found.

There remains to me the pleasure of expressing my deep
obligation to Mr. John Bigelow, Mr. Richard Garnett, C.B.,
Sir Richard Tangye, Lord Edmond Fitzmaurice, Mr. Henry
Vignaud, M. Georges Bertin, Signer Arturo Graf, Signer
Fr. Novati, Count Stanislaus Tarnowski, M. Emile Legouis,
the Officers and Librarian of the Royal Society, Mr. J. G.
Rosengarten, Dr. Samuel A. Green, Mr. Lindsay Swift,
Mr. John W. Jordan, Mr. Wilberforce Eames, Mr. James
G. Barawell, Mr. Bunford Samuel, Mr. Howard C. Myers,
Dr. H. F. Keller, Dr. Warner, Mr. J. S. Morgan, J. Pearson
and Company, M. Noel Charavay, Mr. Joseph F. Sabin, and

Mr. Frank T. Sabin.

ALBERT HENRY SMYTH.
SEPTEMBER, 1905.

TABLE OF ABBREVIATIONS

A. P. S American Philosophical Society.

B. M British Museum.

B. N Bibliotheque Nationale.

D. S. W Department of State, Washington.

H Harvard University.

L. C Library of Congress.

L. L Lenox Library.

Lans Lansdowne House.

M.H.S Massachusetts Historical Society.

P. C Private Collection.

P. H. S Pennsylvania Historical Society.

P. R. O Public Record Office.

P. R. O. A. W. I Public Record Office : America and

West Indies.
P. A. E. E. U Paris Departement des Affaires

Etrangeres, — Etats-Unis.

U. of P University of Pennsylvania.

Y Yale University.

B Bigelow.

F Benjamin Franklin.

S Sparks.

V Benjamin Vaughan.

W. T. F W. T. Franklin.

Franklin's Mss. exist in several forms. He made a rough draft of
every letter that he wrote ; he then made a clean copy to send away, and
often retained a letter-press copy. To indicate the state of the docu-
ment, the following abbreviations are used : d. = draft, trans. = transcript,
1. p. = letter-press copy.

CONTENTS

PAGE

INTRODUCTION i

The Franklin Manuscripts I

The Printed Editions 12

The Works of Franklin 33

Philosophical Works 53

Political and Economical Works 135

Satires and Bagatelles 166

Correspondence 195

THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY 219

1. Franklin's Draft Scheme of the Autobiography . . 221

2. The Autobiography 226

INTRODUCTION

THE FRANKLIN MANUSCRIPTS

FRANKLIN preserved all his papers. He had the mag-
pie trait of hoarding things. Every letter written to him,
every rough draft and copy of a letter written by him,
every visiting card, and every invitation to dinner or to
a Masonic lodge meeting was saved and cherished, and
went to swell the tremendous aggregate of his collec-
tion of papers. He jealously guarded these souvenirs,
for he was thoroughly aware of their importance to the
future historian of America. No public man has ever more
completely revealed himself or more copiously recorded
the march of events in his time. His care in this respect
is at once the delight and the despair of his biographer.

It was one of the chief regrets of his life that a chest of
private papers which he left with Mr. Joseph Galloway
when he went to France in 1776 was broken open and
plundered. Benjamin Vaughan told him "with infinite
concern" that Galloway had written to him that "the
rebels have got at your papers and destroyed them."
Whether it was the "rebels" or the British troops who
did this destruction is unknown. Certain it is that Mr.
Bache hurried out to Trevose, Joseph Galloway's country
seat near Philadelphia, and gathered up the loose and
scattered leaves and put such of them as could be found
into the chest, and brought the poor remnant back to

VOL. I — B I

2 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

Philadelphia. By this act of vandalism the papers relating
to the earliest period of Franklin's life were irretrievably
lost. Eight letter-books were in the chest containing the
drafts of Franklin's correspondence while in England,
from 1757 to 1762, and from 1764 to 1775; six of these
were lost and have never been recovered.

Although he set a high value upon his papers, and was
anxious for their preservation, he was disorderly in the care
of them. They lay loosely about him. He declares in
his Autobiography that he found order with regard to places
for things, papers, etc., extremely difficult to acquire: " In
truth I found myself incorrigible with respect to order, and
now I am grown old and my memory bad, I feel very
sensibly the want of it."

William Alexander was so much impressed by Franklin's
carelessness with regard to documents that he wrote to
him (March i, 1777): "Will you forgive me my Dear Sir
for noticing, that your Papers seem to me to lye a little
loosely about your hands — you are to consider yourself
as surrounded by spies and amongst people who can make
a cable from a thread; would not a spare half hour per
day enable your son to arrange all your papers, useless
or not, so that you could come at them sooner, and not
one be visible to a prying eye."

His negligence never, however, exposed him to danger.
He was reticent where silence was a virtue, and wary and
cautious where prudence was required. No man could
better keep his own counsel. The most indefatigable
inquiry has failed to ascertain the source from which he
obtained the Hutchinson Letters, or to discover who was
the mother of his son or of his grandson. He was sur-

THE FRANKLIN MANUSCRIPTS 3

rounded by spies while he lived at Passy. Enemies were
in his household. Emissaries of Lord North and Stormont
dogged his footsteps, peered over his shoulder, and pried
into his papers; but nothing was found or quoted that
derogated from his dignity or honour.

Major Thornton and the mysterious "Edwards" furtively
copied his letters, which lay temptingly open and astray
upon his table. M. de Moiande and Charles Parker Forth
and "Doctor" Moore hastened to send to Lord North the
gossip they had bought from servants of the households of
Beaumarchais and Franklin. But with all their strategy
and cunning watchfulness they failed to discover one impor-
tant political secret or to confound one of Franklin's subtle
plans.

By his will he bequeathed all his manuscripts and papers
to William Temple Franklin, his grandson, who had acted as
his secretary in Paris, and who was very dear to him. He
seems to have entertained an exaggerated notion of Temple's
abilities, and to have believed him capable of properly sort-
ing, arranging, and editing these multitudinous papers and
giving them permanent literary form. But Temple Franklin
had neither literary faculty or historic sense; he was indo-
lent and timid, and aghast at the magnitude of the task
before him. He culled out what he imagined to be the most
important of the manuscripts, and carried them to London
with the apparent intention of devoting himself to his
editorial task.

The papers left by him in Philadelphia, by far the greater
part of the whole collection, he bequeathed to his friend
George Fox, from whose son, Charles P. Fox, they came to
The American Philosophical Society, where they are now

4 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

carefully guarded. The announcement of the intention to
make the society the custodian of these historical documents
was made in a letter from Charles P. Fox to John Vaughan,
Librarian, September 17, 1840: "Upon conversing with
my sisters respecting the papers of Dr. Franklin, bequeathed
by William T. Franklin, Esq., to my father, we have con-
cluded they cannot be better disposed of than by presenting
to the society of which he was the founder."

This collection is now contained in 76 folio volumes, and
consists of 13,000 documents in nine languages. These
volumes contain papers from 1735 to 1790, scanty for the
earlier and voluminous for the later years. They are classi-
fied as follows: —

FRANKLIN PAPERS m THE AMERICAN PHILOSOPHICAL SOCIETY

Vols. 1-39. Letters to Dr. Franklin, 1735-1790.

Vols. 40-43. Letters to Dr. Franklin, without date.

Vol. 44. Letters to Dr. Franklin, anonymous and without date.

Vol. 45. Drafts and copies of letters from Dr. Franklin, 1738-1789.

Vol. 46. Letters from Dr. Franklin to his wife, 1755-1774.

Vols. 47-48. Letters to various persons, 1710-1791.

Vol. 49. Papers on subjects of science and politics.

Vol. 50. Papers by Dr. Franklin on various subjects.

Vol. 51. Poetry and verses.

Vol. 52. Miscellaneous papers, 1670-1769.

Georgia papers, 1768-1775.
Vols. 53-55. Miscellaneous papers, 1770-1788.
Vol. 56. Miscellaneous papers without date.
Vol. 57. Memorials, petitions, etc.
Unnumbered Vol. Fragments and torn letters.
Unnumbered Vol. Scraps, memorials, etc.

Unnumbered Vol. Franklin papers : in France— Letters from Franklin.
Unnumbered Vol. Franklin papers: in France — Letters to Franklin.
Unnumbered Vol. Franklin papers : in France — Invitations, cards.
Unnumbered Vol. Franklin papers : in France — Court, marriage,
funeral and meeting notices, invitations.

THE FRANKLIN MANUSCRIPTS 5

Unnumbered Vol. Franklin papers: in France — Oaths of allegiance,
paroles, bonds of privateers, passports.

Unnumbered Vol. Franklin papers: in France — Letters from Frank-
lin — Letters to Franklin — Miscellaneous.

Unnumbered Vol. Franklin papers : in France — Promissory notes,
public loans and accounts.

Unnumbered Vol. Franklin papers: in France — Applications for
appointments in army and navy.

Unnumbered Vol. Franklin papers: in France — Diplomatic, naval
matters, military stores, indemnity.

Unnumbered Vol. Franklin papers : in France — Prisoners' assistance,
to raise troops, for civil appointments, to settle in America, miscel-
laneous.

Unnumbered Vol. Franklin papers : in France — Household and per-
sonal accounts.

Unnumbered Vol. Franklin papers : in France — Miscellaneous letters
in German.

Unnumbered Vol. Franklin papers: in England — Notices, invita-
tions, visiting cards, notes, business cards.

Unnumbered Vol. Franklin papers : Wills, powers of attorney, in-
dentures, bonds, agreements, notes, memoranda, bills, 1728-1768.

Unnumbered Vol. Franklin papers: Bills 1769-1788, drafts, accounts,
checks, memoranda, bills of lading, public accounts.

Certified acts of Congress, 1776-1780.

Several volumes of miscellaneous account-books.

Eight volumes of letters to William Temple Franklin: Vols. 1-7, 1775-
1790; Vol. 8, without date.

The manuscripts taken abroad by Temple Franklin have
had an interesting history. After the publication of "The
Life and Writings of Benjamin Franklin" , the
original papers were deposited for safe keeping with Herries,
Farquhar & Co., bankers, 16, St. James's Street, London.
William Temple Franklin married Hannah Collier, an
English woman from Berkshire, removed to France, and
died in Paris, May 25, 1823. His widow administered
upon the estate, and on the 23d of September removed
from the vaults of the bank the old chest containing the

6 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

Franklin manuscripts. For the next seventeen years nothing
is known of their history. The "inconsolable widow,"
whose grief, as she testified upon her husband's monument in
Pere-lachaise, would end only with her life, married again
in 1834, and continued to live with her second husband, Jean

X

Ernest Etienne Montluc de la Riviere, at Etampes, until her
death in 1846. It is not known what she did with the papers ;
but in 1840 they were found "loosely bundled up" on the
top shelf of a tailor's shop in St. James's Street, where Temple
Franklin had lodged. Many of the papers had doubtless
been destroyed, and others were being cut into patterns at
the time of the discovery. The finder ineffectually offered
them for sale for ten or eleven years. They were refused
by the British Museum and declined by Lord Palmerston.
They were offered in vain to Edward Everett and George
Bancroft, successively ministers to England. In 1851 a
purchaser was found in Henry Stevens of Vermont, the
well-known bibliophile, to whom the owner was recom-
mended by Abbott Lawrence. Mr. Stevens sorted, repaired,
and arranged the papers, gave again an air of respectability
to their ragged disorder, and sold them to the United States
for seven thousand pounds. They were placed in the
Library of the State Department, and are now, with the
exception of the Craven Street Letter Book, the Petition
to the King, and some portions of the diplomatic corre-
spondence, in the Manuscript Department of the Library
of Congress. This collection, which bears the name of
Henry Stevens, is in 14 folio volumes, containing 2938
papers. It comprises: i. The Original Records or Letter
Books of the American Legation in Paris during the Revolu-
tionary War, and subsequently, 1776-1785, including corre-

THE FRANKLIN MANUSCRIPTS ^

spondence with the French Government; the negotiations
for supplies to carry on the war; papers relative to Paul
Jones ; Captain Cook and his voyage of discovery ; privateer-
ing ; negotiations for peace ; the Treaty ; and correspondence
with various countries of the continent.

2. Franklin's original manuscripts; his essays, miscel-
lanies, correspondence, bagatelles, etc.

3. His journals and memoranda for the Autobiography.

4. The original correspondence with the American
government.

5. The Original Petition of the Congress to the King,
October, 1774, signed in duplicate by all the fifty members
of the Continental Congress. This Petition was signed
by the Members in two copies. Both were sent, by different
ships, to Franklin. One he kept, the other he presented
to the Minister for the King. The King's copy is now in
the Public Record Office.

6. Correspondence with David Hartley, chiefly con-
cerning the exchange of prisoners; the Hutchinson Papers
Correspondence, etc.

7. Records and Correspondence of the Commissioners
on the part of England to negotiate the Treaty of Peace,
together with a complete transcript of Oswald's Journal,
the original of which is in the Lansdowne Collection.

8. The Craven Street Letter Book, containing the drafts
of important letters written by Franklin during his residence
in London (1765-1775).

The originals of many of the letters and articles published
by W. T. Franklin are missing from this collection. It is
impossible to determine their fate. They may have been
lost in the obscure years between 1823 and 1840, when we

8 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

have no records of the straits of fortune into which they were
driven, or they may have been used by Temple Franklin
as "printer's copy."

Not all of Franklin's papers came to The American Philo-
sophical Society. After the bulk of them had been delivered
a portion still remained for many years in a garret over the
stable at Champlost, the home of the Fox family. Miss
Fox, who took small interest in the papers, determined to
sell them to the paper mills in order to secure a new carpet
for the kitchen. About 1862 Mrs. Holbrook, who lived in
Bradford County, Pennsylvania, was visiting Miss Fox and
saw these papers carried out. She remonstrated, and they
were brought back into the house — all but one unlucky
barrel which had already gone to the mill. Miss Fox selected
a number of her own family letters and gave the rest — a
generous trunk full — to Mrs. Holbrook. From her they
descended to her son George O. Holbrook, from whom they
were purchased in 1903, through the efforts of Dr. S. Weir
Mitchell, and deposited in the Library of the University
of Pennsylvania.

This collection, which no editor of Franklin or student
of American history has hitherto examined, consists of
more than 800 documents, ranging from Franklin's draft
of an essay on the British plantations in America, in 1731,
down to his latest correspondence. There is much whiff
and wind of the controversy with the Proprietary Gov-
ernment ; maps of the Gulf Stream and of Bunker Hill ;
Franklin's personal accounts of his household in Paris
and with Congress; numerous documents in the affair of
Paul Jones and Captain Landais; and holograph letters
from Washington, Lafayette, Jefferson, Wayne, Whitefield,

THE FRANKLIN MANUSCRIPTS 9

Francis Hopkinson, Robert Morris, and the Presidents of
Congress.

The bulk of the correspondence between Franklin and Sir
Joseph Banks concerning aerial navigation is here; and
further interchange of scientific opinion is found between
Franklin and Priestley in England, and La Blancherie and
Le Roy in France. Letters are here from Turin, Padua,
and Orleans, soliciting Franklin ("plus grand philosophe du
Siecle ") to honour them by accepting membership in their
learned societies. Not least interesting in the collection are
two letters from Robespierre and Burke: the former, an
appeal "to the most illustrious savant of the world," to
coach the writer, then a humble advocate, that he might in-
telligently argue the question of the legality of lightning
rods; the latter, the original of an already published letter
relating to the parole of General Burgoyne.

These three collections contain nearly all the Franklin
papers that are now known to exist. The remainder are
widely scattered over the face of the earth. Of the minor
American collections the most important is that in the pos-
session of the Pennsylvania Historical Society. Distributed
through the various autograph collections of the society,
those that bear the names of Dreer, Conarroe, Peters,
Coryell, and Sprague, are upward of 50 autograph letters
of Benjamin Franklin. The other Franklin papers are
found in four folio volumes containing 400 documents, and
in two bundles of manuscripts containing 260 documents.
This collection contains a large number of letters from
Thomas Digges, conveying secret intelligence from Lon-
don; they are variously signed: T. Digges, T. D., Arthur
Hamilton, Robert Sinclair, P. Drouillard (12 letters), Will-

10 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

iam Forbes, William Ross, William Ferguson, W. S. Church
(19 letters), Alexander McKinloch, Alexander Brett, John
Thompson, William Fitzpatrick, and Moses Young.

In Europe, Franklin letters are preserved in Paris at the
Foreign Office, le Bibliotheque du Ministere de la Marine,
in the Bibliotheque Nationale, and the Archives Nationales ;
in Spain at Simancos ; in Holland at the Hague ; and in Eng-
land at the Public Record Office, the British Museum, King's
College, Cambridge, Lansdowne House, and the Royal
Society. All the papers in the public collections of Europe
are now chronicled in the colossal Index to the American
Documents in the Archives of Europe. This vast under-
taking of the late B. F. Stevens is at last completed, and
bound in 1 80 sumptuous folios. It indexes 161,000 public
documents. It was carried forward and completed at
immense expense, and supplies a sure and easy clew to the
bewildering mazes of the enormous official collections of
the Old World. At present it is contained in an upper room
of No. 4, Trafalgar Square, where it awaits a purchaser, and
is comparatively inaccessible to students. The admirably
classified collection of state papers belonging to the Foreign
Office, located upon the Quai d'Orsay, in Paris, contains
137 letters in the handwriting of Franklin and 123 letters
addressed to him. Of these, 85 were written by Franklin
to Comte de Vergennes, and 79 were addressed by that
minister to Franklin.

The Bibliotheque de la Marine has n letters in Franklin's
hand.

The Public Record Office, in Chancery Lane, London,
has 57 letters in the handwriting of Franklin, and 22 letters
addressed to him. Very interesting is a volume labelled

THE FRANKLIN MANUSCRIPTS II

"Letters of Dr. Franklin and Others, 1768-1775" (P. R. O.
A. W. L, 684), on the first page of which the following "Ob-
servation" is written: "Thirteen (genuine) Letters of Dr.
Franklin. These letters are perhaps now only precious or
Important so far as they prove and discover the Duplicity,
Ingratitude, and Guilt of this Arch Traitor whom they
unveil and really unmask Displaying him as an accomplish'd
Proficient in the blacker Arts of Dissimulation and Guile."

The British Museum had, in the summer of 1904, 35
original letters by Franklin, and 14 letters addressed to
him. The most interesting part of this collection is a
volume belonging to the King's Library (K. 203), con-
taining the correspondence of Franklin with Dr. Samuel
Cooper and Thomas Pownall. After the battle of Lexington,
and when Boston was surrounded, Dr. Cooper applied for
permission to leave the city. He obtained a passport. Un-
willing to destroy the originals of these letters, he left them
with a friend, Mr. Jeffries, who was ill and who soon after
went to the country. His son, Dr. John Jeffries, refused
to accompany his father, and the trunk containing the corre-
spondence was left with him. He took it to Halifax and
to London in 1778, and presented the papers to Benjamin
Thompson (Count Rumford), who gave them to Lord
George Germaine for his Majesty. Dr. Jeflfries's Diary
was saved from the fire that destroyed his mansion house
in Franklin Street, Boston, in 1820. Dr. B. Joy Jeffries
writes: "In my grandfather's Diary, June 24, 1779, he
records a long interview with Germaine concerning his own
affairs, and Germaine saying he had read these letters with
great interest."

The Lansdowne Collection has 22 letters written by

12 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

Franklin. The present whereabouts of many other docu-
ments is revealed by the various reports of the Historical
Manuscripts Commission.

It is an impossible task to discover and catalogue the
widely scattered Franklin papers. They appear in the
remotest and most unexpected places. There is scarcely
a family in France that was prominent in the eighteenth
century that does not preserve and cherish certain Franklin
letters. A library in Cremona, Italy, is proud of a letter
from Franklin to Lorenzo Manini, one of the founders of
the Cisalpine Republic. The traveller in Russia and
Lithuania who carries Franklin in his mind comes upon
letters written in that familiar hand. Across the entire
eighteenth century his shadow falls, and all its paths are
haunted by his presence.

THE PRINTED EDITIONS

Franklin wrote much, but always with a present and
practical purpose. He was the best American writer, a
master of plain and vigorous English, but he had no aspira-
tions after literary distinction. Industrious and frugal in all
the affairs of life, exercising a scanty and penurious house-
hold economy that savoured of parsimony, seeking along
busy avenues of trade to acquire a competent fortune, that
he might be independent and enjoy profitable leisure, it is
significantly characteristic of him that he never applied either
for patent-right or copyright. Such were his ingenuity,
quickness of observation, and fertility of invention, that he
might daily have conceived projects and contrived devices
that would have added to his fortune and renown, yet he

THE PRINTED EDITIONS 13

declined Governor Thomas's offer to give him a patent
for the "sole vending" of the Pennsylvania fireplaces, saying
"That as we enjoy great advantages from the inventions
of others, we should be glad of an opportunity to serve
others by an invention of ours ; and this we should do freely
and generously." Le Roy said to him, "Like Charles XII
and other conquerors you only seize empires to give them
to others. " In the same spirit he wrote out his ideas upon
philosophy and political economy, and sent them in letters
to his friends, who might, if they chose, put them to public
use by publishing them as pamphlets or contributing
them to the proceedings of learned societies. He sent
nothing to the press over his own name. But for the scien-
tific enthusiasm of Peter Collinson, and the personal devo-
tion of Dubourg and Vaughan, his name would not have
been known to the academies and philosophers of Europe.
He lived with the pen in his hand ; he sent forth from Craven
Street and from Passy masterpieces of irony and keen polit-
ical satire; he discomfited the ablest controversialists of
England, and won the attentive ear of Europe. It has been
well said that he is easily first among the giant race of pam-
phleteers and essayists, most of whom went before, but a
few of whom came immediately after, the war for indepen-
dence. All of this flood of powerful polemic, however,
was anonymously written, and for the most part in haste
and without revision.

His indifference to literary fame is not alone sufficient
to explain the singular circumstance that he rarely saw
a proof-sheet of any of his writings. His abhorrence of
controversy must be remembered. "I have never," he
wrote, "entered into any controversy in defense of my philo-

14 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

sophical opinions; I leave them to take their chance in the
world. If they are right, truth and experience will support
them; if wrong, they ought to be refuted and rejected.
Disputes are apt to sour one's temper and disturb one's
quiet. I have no private interest in the reception of my
inventions by the world, having never made, nor proposed
to make, the least profit by any of them." He saw that
by public altercations over scientific questions, the ignorant
are diverted at the expense of the learned. He wrote to
Ingenhousz, when that irate philosopher was engaged in
a dispute with Priestley: "I hope you will omit the polemic
piece in your French edition and take no public notice of
the improper behaviour of your friend ; but go on with your
excellent experiments, produce facts, improve science, and
do good to mankind. Reputation will follow, and the little
injustices of contemporary labourers will be forgotten; my
example may encourage you, or else I should not mention
it. You know, that when my papers were first published,
the Abbe* Nollet, then high in reputation, attacked them in
a book of letters. An answer was expected from me, but
I made none to that book, nor to any other. They are now
all neglected, and the truth seems to be established. You
can always employ your time better than in polemics."
To the same correspondent he wrote: "Whatever some
may think and say, it is worth while to do men good, for
the self-satisfaction one has in the reflection."

Franklin lacked constructive ability. His mind teemed
with invention, and his observation was astonishingly quick
and accurate, but he had not, apparently, the power of
patiently coordinating and symmetrizing his thought. His
Autobiography is his only book, and upon that he wrought

THE PRINTED EDITIONS 15

from time to time for many years, and left the work un-
finished when he died. His literary and scientific bro-
chures, therefore, are chiefly letters written to friends who
were prominent in science or affairs, and who, impressed
by the general and permanent value of the writings, sought
to have the world share in their pleasure and instruction.
There is probably no parallel in the history of literature to
the publication of works of such variety, value, and enduring
fame in such modest and unpretentious manner.

The first collection was made in 1751: "Experiments
and Observations on Electricity, made at Philadelphia in
America, By Mr. Benjamin Franklin, London: E. Cave,
1751. 4°." It was a pamphlet of 86 pages, given to the
press by Peter Collinson, and sold for half a crown. Col-
linson was a scientist "very curious in botany and other
branches of natural history" (F.). He was the close friend
of John Bartram, and the intermediary between him and
the King. The firm of mercers with which he was con-
nected had business relations with America, and so Collin-
son became acquainted with men of intellect in the colonies,
and urged the Americans to the cultivation of flax, hemp,
silk, and wine. He was a fellow of the Royal Society, and
one of the founders of the Society of Antiquaries. After
four years' correspondence with Franklin upon electricity,
he published some of the letters without consultation with
Franklin, assigning as his reason the great interest of the
letters and their importance to the public.1 The pamphlet

1 " It may be necessary to acquaint the reader, that the following observa-
tions and experiments were not drawn up with a view to their being made
publick, but were communicated at different times, and most of them in letters
wrote on various topicks, as matters only of private amusement.

" But some persons to whom they were read, and who had themselves

16 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

was again printed with additional matter in 1753: "Sup-
plemental Experiments and Observations on Electricity,
Part II. made at Philadelphia in America, By Benjamin
Franklin, Esq., and communicated in several Letters to
P. Collinson, Esq. of London, F. R. S. London : E. Cave,
1753, 4°" (second edition 1754). Part I was reprinted in
a third edition in 1760; and Part II, third edition, 1762.

The letters and essays were now well known in Europe.
Buffon had read them in a stumbling translation, and had
prevailed upon Dalibard to render them more faithfully
into French. Louis XV witnessed the performance of
the electrical experiments at St. Germain, and bestowed
royal applause upon Franklin. The name of the American
philosopher was now spoken with curiosity in nearly every
part of the continent, though Abbe* Nollet, "Who had
form'd and publish'd a theory of electricity," declared that
no such person existed. As yet the writings had not been
gathered into a book. But in 1769 a single quarto volume
appeared in London with the title: "Experiments and Ob-
servations on Electricity, made at Philadelphia in America,
by Benjamin Franklin, LL.D. and F.R.S. To which are
added Letters and Papers on Philosophical Subjects. The
whole corrected, methodized, improved, and now first col-
lected into one Volume, and illustrated with copperplates.
London: David Henry, 1769," plates iv, 496 pp. and
Index, old calf, 4°.

Collinson had died nine months before, on the nth of

been conversant in electrical disquisitions, were of opinion, they contained so
many curious and interesting particulars relative to this affair, that it would be
doing a kind of injustice to the publick, to confine them solely to the limits
of a private acquaintance." — Preface to " Experiments and Observations,"
London, 1751.

THE PRINTED EDITIONS 17

August, 1768; Franklin was much occupied with colonial
affairs which distracted his attention from scientific inquiry.
Even his son, William Franklin, was amazed at his father's
many interests and activities, and wrote to him (March 2,
1769): "A new edition of your Experiments is advertised,
with corrections and additions which I long much to see.
It is surprising how you could find time to attend to things
of that nature [amid] your hurry of public business, and
variety of other Engagements."

Various translations were made of this volume, but none
of real importance until Franklin's devoted friend, Barbeu
Dubourg, took it up in 1772. Dubourg was a member of
the Royal Society of Medicine, the Royal Society of Mont-
pellier, the Medical Society of London, and the Academy
of Sciences of Stockholm. He was born at Mayenne, Feb-
ruary 12, 1709. He had, like his brothers, studied theology,
and abandoned it for the practice of medicine. He was a
notable linguist, and had already translated Bolingbroke
into French. His colleague, Le Roy, had promised to
translate Franklin's volume, but he had made no progress
in it. Dubourg declared to Franklin that he feared to
undertake it himself, lest he should spoil the essays with
his unskilful hand. Lesqui, a PrZmontre, had made a
translation but had mislaid it. Dubourg importuned him
unceasingly for it. Meanwhile he proceeded with the
work, frequently consulting Franklin as to the meaning
of English words and phrases. "What are 'orreries'?"
he asks; and he would know the French equivalent for
"surf" and "spray" and "jostled" (October 28, 1772).

The work appeared in 1773: "(Euvres de M. Franklin,
Docteur es Loix, Traduites de 1'Anglois sur la quatrieme

VOL. I — C

1 8 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

Edition. Par M. Barbeu Dubourg, avec des additions
nouvelles et des Figures en Taille douce. Paris, 1773." In
it were included some letters written later than the London
edition of 1769, and the "Way to Wealth" translated un-
der the title "Le Moyen de s'Enrichir, Enseigne" clairemont
dans la Preface d'un Vieil Almanach de Pensylvanie, in-
titule* Le Pauvre Henri a son aise. "

The translation was well received ; Dubourg and Marquis
de Mirabeau and M. Dalibard sent Franklin a thousand
compliments, and Dubourg, in a letter to his friend and
master (December 29, 1773), declared that nothing he had
ever written had been so well received as his preface to
these works, — "So great is the advantage of soaring in the
shadow of Franklin's wings!"

Among Franklin's friends and correspondents in Eng-
land, Benjamin Vaughan was preeminently dear. He
was the son of a West Indian planter and well connected
upon both sides of the sea. He had been introduced by
Home Tooke to Lord Shelburne, and had become private
secretary to that statesman. He married Sarah Manning,
aunt of the late Cardinal Manning, and his family were
connected with the house of Bedford. His letters to Frank-
lin are highly valuable for their reflection of political senti-
ment in England and their apt criticism of public men and
measures. In 1779 Vaughan prepared with much care a
new edition of Franklin's writings. He took great trouble
to find all of his friend's flying leaves and obscurer pam-
phlets, and published them with judicious notes, and an
attentive eye to the proofs. The following letter explains
the way in which Vaughan proceeded with his self-imposed
task.

THE PRINTED EDITIONS 19

"LONDON April 9th 1779

"My DEAREST SIR

"By this conveyance you will receive
a printed pacquet of your papers; and inclosed you will
receive what is finished in addition. The last proof sheet
comes down to p. 230. I believe in the whole, there
will be from 450 to 500 pages; exclusive of index, table
of contents, and two or three pages of explanatory pref-
ace.

"I have taken sundry liberties with you; but 7 only shall
be the sufferer, for I shall in the fullest possible manner get
your judgment out of the scrape. Italics are put in many
places, to serve instead of marking the subject (as in some
authors is done) on the side of the page; and to prevent an
English reader running away with a blunder for want of
attending to a particular word which would have saved his
blunder. The pointing is altered very frequently, your
original pointing not being always to be got at, to make the
whole uniform. The whole secret of these alterations lies in
throwing the sentences into masses and members to assist
the eye more suddenly in catching and reviewing the sense;
and in making abrupt pauses in particular places for the
sake of forcing the reader's attention to some particular
point, either on account of its importance or as being other-
wise equivocal.

"Paragraphs and spaces are used with the same sort of
license; especially in the Canada pamphlet and the House
of Commons Examination. With what is done to these two
pieces I think you will hardly be displeased : on the former
I bestowed much trouble. The writings of very few authors
besides yourself, will bear distinguishing into heads. But I

20 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

think by making the piece more luminous as to the parts, I
have only done you infinitely more credit.

" However you may be sure of this ; that no sort of mercy
will be shewn by the editor to himself. The two or three
first sheets have been blundered about; not having enough
attended to the subject, or the printer. Mr. Jackson in
particular is very ill-used, and will have a public and private
apology made to him. However with your permission, I
wish that the alterations I have minuted down may be
attended to with you if not improper; and that it may
be expressed in the French translation that what is altered,
is at the desire of the English editor"

The work was published in July, 1779, with the title:
"Political, Miscellaneous and Philosophical Pieces; Written
by Benj. Franklin LL.D. and F.R.S., now first collected,
with Explanatory Plates, Notes, and an Index to the whole,
London: J. Johnson, 1779." When all was ready, Vaughan
wrote to Franklin: —

"JUNE 17. 1779

"MY VERY DEAREST SlR

"In about 3 weeks time I hope to

send you everything complete, relative to a certain collection.
There will be an engraving of the head of the party, taken
from the larger medallion, of which you sent a miniature
size to Miss G. S.1 The motto, given by her father at my
request, is, 'His country's friend, but more of human kind.'
I wanted something that should answer to 'complecti-
tur orbem'; which this does only in one sense of 'com-
plectitur': however it is infinitely the more important sense,
and that which will most please you; and I like it too the

1 Miss Georgiana Shipley.

THE PRINTED EDITIONS 21

better, as it will look with some like making friends with
England; which kind of incidents I always take in. The
above stands round the engraving; in the title page you
know comes, 'hominum rerumque repertor, ' from Virgil.1
We have got the preface to G.'s2 speech, all but the epitaph;
which is promised me, as I suppose from Mr. Wharton, and
is much wanted. My negligence in not asking for this in
good time, as I thought it might be had at any time, is incon-
venient to us a little, as to G. himself. I have not yet been
able to see him; but I shall probably see him to day, as his
examination I believe continues to day at the house. He
answered almost every single question of Lord G. G.'s,3 in
the affirmative. He said that at the taking up arms, only ^
were for independence ; but that the party had begun in the
chief towns, ever since 1754, for in order to abuse the Howe's
for not quelling the revolt, they seem to consent to acknowl-
edge that. But it is impossible to go into the particulars of
what he said, they were so very multiplied but it turned out,
that in fact your people had 'recruited' at least on as good
terms as ours, whether in America or even almost in Eng-
land; and that your bounty money for 'substitutes' as it
was called was less than the Liverpool and Manchester
people gave for their regiments in many instances. "

In his preface Mr. Vaughan said: —

"The times appear not ripe enough for the editor to give
expression to the affection, gratitude and veneration he bears
to a writer he has so intimately studied: Nor is it wanting
to the author; as history lies in wait for him, and the judg-

, xii. B.

2 Speech of Joseph Galloway, to which Franklin wrote a preface.
8 Lord George Germaine.

22 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

ment of mankind balances already in his favour. The editor
wishes only that other readers may reap that improvement
from his productions which he conceives they have rendered
to himself. Yet perhaps he may be excused for stating
one opinion: He conceives that no man ever made larger
or bolder guesses than Dr. Franklin from like materials
in politics and philosophy, which, after the scrutiny of events
and facts, have been more completely verified. Can Eng-
lishmen read these things and not sigh at recollecting that
the country which could produce their author, was once
without controversy their own! Yet he who praises Dr.
Franklin for mere ability, praises him for that quality of
his mind, which stands lowest in his own esteem. Reader,
whoever you are and how much soever you think you hate
him, know that this great man loves you enough to wish to
do you good : His country's friend, but more of human kind. "

It was in this spirit of reverence and affection that Vaughan
approached and completed his task of discovering and pre-
serving the stray papers of his venerable friend, "qui porte"
toujours des lunettes sur ses yeux et des royames sur ses
epaules. " *

No further collections appeared during Franklin's life-
time, but numerous translations of individual essays ex-
tended his fame upon the continent. Ingenhousz and
Beccaria translated some of his works into Latin; Baron
Vernazza and Charles Joseph Campi into Ital-
ian ; and Wenzel, a student of physics, translated the works,
from the French of Dubourg, into German and they were
published by Walther, Librarian of the Court of Dresden.2

1 B. Vaughan to M. de Chaumont, July, 1778.

* " Des Herrn D. Benjamin Franklin's Sammtliche Werke aus dem Eng-

THE PRINTED EDITIONS 23

Eleven months after Franklin's death a biography ap-
peared in Paris: "Me*moires de la vie prive'e de Benjamin
Franklin, ecrits par luimeme, et adresse*s a son fils; Suivis
d'un Precis historique de sa Vie politique, et de plusieurs
Piece, relatives a ce Pere de la Liberte", Paris, Buisson, 1791."
It was the first appearance of that extraordinary autobiog-
raphy, a work of vast and enduring fame, and destined to a
strange literary history. Franklin had begun the story of
his life while visiting Jonathan Shipley, the good Bishop of
St. Asaph, at Chilbolton, by Twyford, in 1771. The manu-
script travelled back to Philadelphia with Franklin in 1775.
It was left with other papers in the keeping of Mr. Galloway
when, eighteen months later, Franklin returned to Eng-
land; and it shared the fate of those papers when violent
hands were laid upon the chest, and its contents were
trodden under hostile feet. Twenty-three pages of closely
written manuscript fell into the hands of Abel James, an
old friend, who found, to his great joy, that they contained
an account of Franklin's life ending with the year 1730.
He sent a copy of it to Franklin with an earnest petition
that he would finish the work. This was in 1782. Frank-
lin sent the copy to Benjamin Vaughan, who gave him many
and potential reasons for completing it, saying "it will
be worth all Plutarch's Lives put together. " The Shipleys
and Le Veillard added their voices in earnest solicitation
that the work might not cease. When he left Europe in
1785 he assured his friends that he would solace the tedium
of the homeward voyage with the resumption of this per-

lischen und Franzosischen ubersetzt nebst des franzosischen iibersetzers, des
Herrn Barbey Dubourg, Zusatzen und mit einigen Anmerkungcn versehen,
von G. T. WenzeL Dresden 1780."

24 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

sonal narrative. Catherine Shipley wrote to him after she
had taken leave of him upon the deck of his ship: "We
never walk in the garden without seeing Dr. Franklin's
room and thinking of the work that was begun in it. I
have sincerely wished you a good voyage but since the com-
pletion of that work depends on its length I cannot wish
it may be short."

He was oppressed with age and physical infirmity. Gout
and gravel racked him. Political service still was required
of him. "The Public," he said, "had had the eating of his
flesh, and now seemed resolved to pick his bones." The
work went forward slowly, and stopped at last at the year
J757' Copies were sent to M. le Veillard and Rochefou-
cauld-Liancourt at Paris, and to Dr. Price and Benjamin
Vaughan in England.

Immediately upon his grandfather's death William Tem-
ple Franklin wrote to M. le Veillard, claiming the manu-
script of the Autobiography and asking that it be shown to
no one save perhaps some member of the Academic, who
should be appointed to prepare an tloge. How Buisson
the publisher came by the manuscript from which his trans-
lation was made is an impenetrable mystery which he de-
clined to explain. The translator, who is identified by the
"Nouvelle Biographic Ge'ne'rale" as Dr. Jacques Gibelin,
"me"decin, naturaliste, et traducteur francais," said he had
a copy of the original manuscript, but he would not enter
into the details of how it came into his hands. Lest, how-
ever, it might be thought that the original did not exist, he
would agree to print it in the original language if those who
were curious to see it would inscribe their names at M.
Buisson's shop, No. 20, rue Haute-feuille. As soon as four

THE PRINTED EDITIONS 25

hundred subscribers were obtained at 48 sols each the work
would be published. Evidently there were not four hun-
dred of the curious, and the work in its original form did
not appear.

M. le Veillard wrote to the Journal de Paris (March
21, 1791) denying any knowledge of Buisson's transaction.
He had no connection with the translation, and was quite
ignorant of its source. It brought the story of the life down
to 1731 ; the copy in Le Veillard's possession was complete
to 1757.

Clumsily and carelessly translated, imperfect and un-
finished, it was nevertheless eagerly read and hurriedly
rendered into other languages. In 1792 it was done into
German by Gottfried August Burger, and published in
Berlin.1 In 1793 two English editions appeared: the first
by Robinson,2 "the king of booksellers," who, in the same
year was fined for selling "The Rights of Man." Dr.
Price was the editor, and the text, although translated from
the French, was cleared of the French translator's blunders,
and the language, as the editor said, made to conform more
to the idiom of Franklin. Here, too, the Autobiography
was pieced out beyond the terminal year, 1731, by a reprint
of the Life of Franklin contributed by Dr. Stuber to the
Columbian Magazine (1790-1791).

The other English edition, "The Private Life of the
late Benjamin Franklin, LL.D. London, J. Parsons, 1793."

1 " Benjamin Franklin's Jugendjahre, von ihm selbst sur seinen Sohn be-
schrieben und iibersetzt von G. A. Burger. Berlin : H. A. Rottmann, 1 792."

2 " Works of the late Doctor Benjamin Franklin : consisting of his Life
written by himself, together with Essays, humorous, moral and literary.
Chiefly in the manner of the Spectator. London: G. C. J. & J. Robin-
son 1793."

26 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

was also a retranslation from the French, but different
from Robinson's version, and far inferior to it. Igno-
rance and pompous pretension burden its pages. The
Frenchman had translated Franklin's juvenile ballad, "The
Lighthouse Tragedy, " being an account of the drowning of
Captain Worthilake, as "La Trage'die du Phare. " Parsons's
translator converted it into "The Tragedy of Pharaoh" !

In 1794 the Autobiography appeared in German, at
Weimar, translated from Robinson's edition: "Benjamin
Franklin's Kleine Schriften, nebst seinem Leben, aus dem
Englischen, von G. Schatz: Weimar 1794." The trans-
lator dates his preface "Gotha, April 20, 1794." His work
is on the whole well done, very well done when we reflect
how far it is from the original, being removed from it by
three successive stages of translation.

A new version appeared in Paris in 1798, "Vie de Ben-
jamin Franklin, e*crite par lui-me'me, suivie de ses CEuvres
morales, politiques et litte'raires, dont la plus grand partie
n'avoit pas encore 6t6 publie'e. Traduit de PAnglais, avec
des Notes, par J. Caste'ra. Paris, chez F. Buisson, An VI.
de la Re'publique [1798].

The Autobiography is here freshly translated from Robin-
son's rendering of the anonymous (Gibelin ?) French trans-
lation of the English original. Caste'ra added, however, some
things from French sources, and gave most of the second
part of the Autobiography which was not to appear in Eng-
lish until 1818. In his preface Caste'ra regretted "not having
had all the Memoirs which go, it is said, to 1757." He
added, "It is not known why M. Benjamin Franklin Bache
[ W. T. Franklin] who has them in his possession and is now
residing in London, keeps them so long from the public.

THE PRINTED EDITIONS 27

The works of a great man belong less to his heirs than to
the human race."

The next publication of the "Works" was in London in
1806: "The Complete Works in Philosophy, Politics and
Morals, of the late Dr. Benjamin Franklin now first col-
lected and arranged : with Memoirs of his early Life written
by himself, in 3 vols, London, J. Johnson and Longman
1806." A certain Mr. Marshall was the editor, and Ben-
jamin Vaughan is believed to have lent assistance to him.
By this time curiosity was rife as to what had become
of Franklin's papers, and why the edition of the works
that had been promised by William Temple Franklin had
not appeared. The National Intelligencer of Washington
asserted that some grave dishonesty was the cause of the
delay. It was hinted that Temple Franklin had parted
with his copyrights to a London publisher who had been
bought by the British Government to suppress the publi-
cation.

In the preface to the 1806 edition (dated April 7, 1806),
the editor repeats the charge: "The proprietor [W. T.
Franklin], it seems, had found a bidder of a different de-
scription in some emissary of government, whose object
was to withhold the manuscripts from the world, not to
benefit it by their publication, and they either passed into
other hands, or the person to whom they were bequeathed
received a remuneration for suppressing them." The
Edinburgh Review, in July of that year, published an excel-
lent article upon this edition and incidentally upon Frank-
lin's mental characteristics and literary style. The reviewer,
who was Francis Jeffrey, said: "Nothing, we think, can
show more clearly the singular want of literary enterprise

28 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

or activity in the States of America than that no one has
yet been found in that flourishing republic to collect and
publish the works of their only philosopher. It is not even
very creditable to the literary curiosity of the English public
that there should have been no complete edition of the writ-
ings of Dr. Franklin till the year 1806 ; and we should have
been altogether unable to account for the imperfect and
unsatisfactory manner in which the work has now been
performed, if it had not been for a statement in a prefatory
advertisement, which removes all blame from the editor
to attach it to a higher quarter. ... If this statement be
correct, we have no hesitation in saying that no emissary
of government was ever employed on a more miserable and
unworthy service. It is ludicrous to talk of the danger
of disclosing, in 1795, any secrets of State with regard to
the War of American Independence; and as to any anec-
dotes or observations that might give offense to individuals
we think it should always be remembered that public func-
tionaries are the property of the public, that their charac-
ter belongs to history and to posterity, and that it is equally
absurd and discreditable to think of suppressing any part
of the evidence by which their merits must be ultimately
determined. But the whole of the works that have been
suppressed certainly did not relate to republican politics.
The history of the author's life, down to 1757, could not
well contain any matter of offense, and a variety of general
remarks and speculations which he is understood to have
left behind him might have been permitted to see the light,
though his diplomatic operations had been interdicted.
The emissary of government, however, probably took no
care of these things: he was resolved to leave no rubs and

THE PRINTED EDITION'S 29

botches in his work, and, to stifle the dreaded revelation,
he thought the best way was to strangle all the innocents
in the vicinage."

Two months more (September, 1806) and an American
newspaper, The American Citizen, published by James
Cheetham at New York, joined the comminatory chorus.
W. T. Franklin, it said, "without shame and without re-
morse, mean and mercenary, has sold the sacred deposit
committed to his care by Dr. Franklin to the British govern-
ment. Franklin's works are lost to the world forever."

Temple Franklin made no reply to these attacks until,
on the 28th of March, 1807, he observed in the Argus or
London Review, published at Paris, a reprint of The Ameri-
can Citizen's article. He then wrote to the editor a letter
which was published in full in the Argus (March 31, 1807),
and was characterized as "a full and satisfactory answer
to the calumnies circulated on his conduct." He branded
as "atrociously false" the assertion "boldly and shame-
fully" made that he had sold his grandfather's manuscripts
"or any part of them, to the British Government, or their
agents, to suppress the publication of the whole or any part
thereof." He explained that the papers had been left to
him to be published in his discretion, and that the original
manuscripts with the copy prepared for the press were still
"under lock and key in the secure vaults of my bankers,
Herries, Farquhar, & Co. London."

Years slipped away while Temple Franklin was still
scissoring, sorting, shifting, and pasting the heaps of his
grandfather's papers. He sighed and despaired over the
task, and met with frequent rebuffs from publishers, who
told him that it was no time, with Europe in political tumult.

30 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN" FRANKLIN

to undertake great and costly publications. A contract was
finally made with Henry Colburn. A clerk, accustomed
to the performance of a day's work, brought a semblance
of order out of Franklin's sad confusion. And the works
were published twenty-seven years after Temple Franklin
had first advertised for his grandfather's lost papers. The
edition was limited to 750 copies. It was in six volumes
(1817-1819), with another edition in three volumes quarto
. Colburn assumed all the expenses and risks and
took one-third of the profits. Franklin made £1473 out °f
the transaction.

These volumes were immediately translated, by Charles
Malo, and printed in Paris.

In 1828 a fourth translation of the Autobiography ap-
peared in Paris.1 It was published by Jules Renouard;
it was based upon the original Franklin manuscript and
contained the final pages which were never to appear in
English until Mr. John Bigelow issued his reprint of the
Veillard manuscript. To complete what seems an almost
endless list a fifth translation of the Autobiography by
Laboulaye must be mentioned.

Temple Franklin's edition of the works remained the
standard authority until Jared Sparks began his vast labour
of examining all the documents that were accessible to him
and assembling them in ten volumes, constituting what Dr.
Sparks believed to be a complete collection of the writings
of Franklin (1836-1842). Sparks was a man of untiring
industry, of genuine enthusiasm and zeal, and he deserves

1 " Memoires sur la Vie de Benjamin Franklin. Merits par lui-meme, tra-
duction nouvelle. Paris: Jules Renouard, 1828." The editor obtained the
Veillard manuscript from M. de Senarmont.— ED.

THE PRINTED EDITIONS 31

the gratitude of all students of the records of American his-
tory. Yet he possessed all the faults of the eighteenth-cen-
tury and early nineteenth-century editor. He committed
acts of vandalism upon the papers he was permitted to
examine. He wilfully altered the language of letters when
he was displeased by the phraseology or offended by the
sentiment expressed. For reverence to some alive he soft-
ened the asperities of criticism and smoothed the speeches of
those who transgressed the limits of decency and decorum.
When it is said of Benedict Arnold that "He seems to mix
as naturally with that polluted court [England] as pitch with
tar," Sparks omits the sentence, but as usual gives not the
slightest intimation that he has not exactly copied the letter.
"George Ill's character for falsehood and dissimulation"
is with nice surgical skill cut out of the context and thrown
so dexterously away that only a careful collation with the
original document will detect the loss. When Franklin
speaks of "the cruel injuries wantonly done us by burn-
ing our towns," Sparks substitutes the word constantly, and
emasculates the sentence.

He is nice in his use of moral epithets ; he will not offend
one stomach with his choice of words. Franklin speaks
of the Scots "who entered England and trampled on its belly
as far as Derby," — "marched on," says Sparks. Franklin
is sending some household articles from London to Phila-
delphia. In the large packing case is "a jug for beer."
It has, he says, "the coffee cups in its belly." Sparks per-
forms the same abdominal operation here. In the corre-
spondence with Jared Eliot upon agriculture Sparks always
changes "dung" to "manure." "Mr. Laurens," it is said,
"is ill of a lax, much emaciated and very much invective."

32 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

In Sparks's English he "is sick with a cholera . . . and
very much incensed."

Livingston wrote to Lafayette "you will be charmed to
see our countrymen well dressed, since you used to admire
them even in their naked beauties." In Sparks the line con-
cludes "even in their rags." Incredible as it seems, Sparks
sometimes makes more than thirty alterations in a single
letter.

The purchase by the United States of the Stevens collec-
tion of Franklin papers prompted Mr. John Bigelow to
attempt another complete edition of Franklin's works and
correspondence . No one was more competent than
Mr. Bigelow to perform such a task. He had lived long and
variously in the world. He was thoroughly familiar with
the character and public career of Franklin, and he was
widely read in the literature of the eighteenth century. He
possessed also the original manuscript of the Autobiography,
by means of which he had been able to correct more than
twelve hundred errors in William Temple Franklin's version.

In concluding this bibliographical history I am tempted
to return a moment to the romantic adventures of Franklin's
Autobiography, and to repeat the singular history of that
famous book. Five times it appeared in France in five
distinct and different translations. Four times it appeared
in English in four different texts, each differing from the
other in almost every line. A manuscript copy of the work
was made by Benjamin Franklin Bache, then aged twenty,
in 1789, and sent by his grandfather's direction to M. le
Veillard. That gentleman was condemned to the guillotine,
June 15, 1794 (aetat. 61). The copy of the Autobiography
remained in the family, a valued possession.

THE WORKS OF FRANKLIN 33

William Temple Franklin offered the original manuscript
in Franklin's hand in exchange for this copy, thinking per-
haps that Bache's copy would make clearer "copy" for the
printer. In this way a daughter of Le Veillard came into
possession of the original manuscript. She died in 1834
and the manuscript went to her cousin M. de Senarmont,
whose grandson sold it, January 26, 1867, to Mr. John
Bigelow. It is now owned by Mr. E. D. Church, of New
York.

THE WORKS OF FRANKLIN

Sydney Smith said to his daughter, "I will disinherit you,
if you do not admire everything written by Franklin."
There was much sound wisdom in this merry menace. The
literature of the world might be searched in vain for the works
of another author who should exhibit such variety of theme,
fertility of thought, and excellence of style.

A master of political strategy, bearing upon his shoulders
the burdens of a struggling country, he yet entered with
easy familiarity into the discussion of every subject of philo-
sophical inquiry known to the eighteenth century. Natural
philosophy, politics and political economy, general litera-
ture and morals, are treated by him with unparalleled sim-
plicity and facility. Talleyrand told Greville that Franklin
was remarkable in conversation because of his simplicity
and the evident strength of his mind. Simplicity is also
the chief characteristic of his literary style. Francis Jeffrey
said of his philosophical writings that "the most ingenious
and profound explanations are suggested as if they were the
most natural and obvious way of accounting for the phe-
nomena. " His astonishing prescience, power of generaliza-

VOL. I — D

34 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

tion, and force and clarity of expression insured a wide
circulation and prompt acceptance for his opinions and
conclusions. Peter Collinson sent a Leyden jar to the
Library Company of Philadelphia. Franklin experimented
with it, and in five years was acknowledged the first authority
in the world upon electrical theory. He visited the labora-
tory of Lavoisier and corresponded with Priestley and
Cavendish, caught the full significance of their ideas of
the nature of heat and matter, and expressed it in a manner
so simple and convincing that his language has reappeared
in text-books from generation to generation. He wrote
upon contagious colds and the "colica pictonum" with such
easy mastery that he was invited to accept membership in
the medical societies of Paris and London. Again to quote
Jeffrey, whose essay in the Edinburgh Review (July, 1806)
is one of the best ever written about Franklin: "He engaged
in every interesting inquiry that suggested itself to him,
rather as the necessary exercise of a powerful and active
mind than as a task which he had bound himself to perform.
He cast a quick and penetrating glance over the facts and
the data that were presented to him, and drew his conclu-
sions with a rapidity and precision that have not often been
equalled. "

In his Autobiography, Franklin declared that his ability
in prose writing had been a principal means of his advance-
ment in life, and he related the means by which he became,
as he says, "a tolerable English writer." When a boy of
thirteen or fourteen, passionately fond of books, he chanced
upon an odd volume of the Spectator. It was the third.
He bought it, read it over and over, and was delighted with it.
At that moment began his apprenticeship to Addison. The

THE WORKS OF FRANKLIN 35

manner in which he played "the sedulous ape" to that great
master, he has described in his own inimitably simple way.
"I thought the writing excellent, and wished, if possible,
to imitate it. With this view I took some of the papers,
and, making short hints of the sentiment in each sentence,
laid them by a few days, and then, without looking at the
book, tried to complete the papers again, by expressing each
hinted sentiment at length, and as fully as it had been ex-
pressed before, in any suitable words that should come to
hand. Then I compared my Spectator with the original,
discovered some of my faults, and corrected them. But I
found I wanted a stock of words, or a readiness in recollect-
ing and using them, which I thought I should have acquired
before that time if I had gone on making verses; since the
continual occasion for words of the same import, but of
different length, to suit the measure, or of different sound
for the rhyme, would have laid me under a constant neces-
sity of searching for variety, and also have tended to fix that
variety in my mind, and make me master of it. Therefore
I took some of the tales and turned them into verse; and,
after a time, when I had pretty well forgotten the prose,
turned them back again. I also sometimes jumbled my
collections of hints into confusion, and after some weeks
endeavoured to reduce them into the best order, before I
began to form the full sentences and complete the paper.
This was to teach me method in the arrangement of thoughts.
By comparing my work afterwards with the original, I dis-
covered many faults and amended them; but I sometimes
had the pleasure of fancying that, in certain particulars of
small import, I had been lucky enough to improve the method
or the language."

36 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

Addison, Bunyan, and Defoe were his masters and his
models in the difficult art of expression. His early con-
tributions to the New England Courant and the American
Weekly Mercury were imitations of Addison ; and his Silence
Dogood, Alice Addertongue, Anthony Afterwit, Celia Single,
Patience Teacroft, and other alliterative and indicative
names have the personality of the characters that come and
go in the Spectator, with much of their sprightly wit and
gentle satire.

His first collection of books was of John Bunyan's works,
in separate little volumes, and the influence of Bunyan is
perceptible in the numerous parables, moral allegories,
apologues, etc., which, at all periods of his life, he delighted
to write.

Defoe's "Essay on Projects" he declared gave him a turn
of thinking that had an influence on some of the principal
future events of his life. He never attained the grace and
delicacy of Addison, or the imaginative fervour of Bunyan,
and his style is most nearly allied to the pedestrian prose
of Defoe, who was the first great English journalist and
master of reportorial narrative.

Thirty years' experience in journalism taught Franklin all
that was to be known of the technic of that busy craft. A
swift and sententious style was developed by the practical
necessities of his newspaper, his magazine, and his Almanac.
He equipped his arsenal of homely, vigorous expression
with all the engines of satire, burlesque, and repartee. His
own standard of simplicity may be understood from the
following "Query " : —

"How shall we judge of the goodness of a writing? Or
what qualities should a writing have to be good and perfect
in its kind ?

THE WORKS OF FRANKLIN" 37

"Answer. To be good, it ought to have a tendency to
benefit the reader, by improving his virtue or his knowledge.
But, not regarding the intention of the author, the method
should be just; that is, it should proceed regularly from
things known to things unknown, distinctly and clearly
without confusion. The words used should be the most
expressive that the language affords, provided that they are
the most generally understood. Nothing should be ex-
pressed in two words that can be as well expressed in one;
that is, no synonymes should be used, or very rarely, but
the whole should be as short as possible, consistent with
clearness; the words should be so placed as to be agreeable
to the ear in reading ; summarily it should be smooth, clear,
and short, for the contrary qualities are displeasing.

"But, taking the query otherwise, an ill man may write
an ill thing well; that is, having an ill design, he may use
the properest style and arguments (considering who are to
be readers) to attain his ends. In this sense, that is best
wrote, which is best adapted for obtaining the end of the
writer. "

Smooth, clear, and short ! Thirty years of versatile prac-
tice, and rigorous relentless self-criticism, had forged a
supple- tempered style "that bent like perfect steel to spring
again and thrust. "

The severity of his criticism upon himself lends interest
to his opinion of the criticisms of others. In reply to a
correspondent, who had disabled his judgment, he said:
"I have of late fancy 'd myself to write better than ever I
did, and, farther, that when anything of mine is abridged
in the papers or magazines, I conceit that the abridger has
left out the very best and brightest parts. These, my friend,

38 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

are much stronger proofs, and put me in mind of Gil Bias's
patron, the homily-maker." Of an editor who had freely
curtailed one of his contributions he said, "He has drawn
the teeth and pared the nails of my paper, so that it can
neither scratch nor bite. It seems only to paw and mumble. "

Jefferson has told the classical story of Franklin's un-
willingness to become the prey of critics by drafting public
papers.

"When the Declaration of Independence was under the
consideration of Congress there were two or three unlucky
expressions in it which gave offense to some members. The
words 'Scotch and other foreign auxiliaries' excited the ire
of a gentleman or two of that country. Severe strictures on
the conduct of the British King in negativing our repeated
repeals of the law which permitted the importation of slaves
were disapproved by some Southern gentlemen whose re-
flections were not yet matured to the full abhorrence of
that traffic. Although the offensive expressions were imme-
diately yielded, these gentlemen continued their depreda-
tions on other parts of the instrument. I was sitting by
Dr. Franklin, who perceived that I was not insensible to
these mutilations. ' I have made it a rule, ' said he, ' when-
ever in my power, to avoid becoming the draughtsman of
papers to be reviewed by a public body. I took my lesson
from an incident which I will relate to you. When I was a
journeyman printer, one of my companions, an apprentice
hatter, having served out his time, was about to open shop
for himself. His first concern was to have a handsome
signboard, with a proper inscription. He composed it in
these words, "John Thompson, Hatter, makes and sells hats
for ready money," with the figure of a hat subjoined ; but

THE WORKS OF FRANKLIN 39

he thought he would submit it to his friends for their amend-
ments. The first he showed it to thought the word "Hatter"
tautologous, because followed by the words " makes hats,"
which showed he was a hatter. It was struck out. The next
observed that the word "makes" might as well be omitted,
because his customers would not care who made the hats.
If good and to their mind, they would buy, by whomsoever
made. He struck it out. A third said he thought the
words "for ready money" were useless, as it was not the cus-
tom of the place to sell on credit ; every one who purchased
expected to pay. They were parted with, and the inscription
now stood, "John Thompson sells hats." "Sells hats?" says
his next friend. "Why, nobody will expect you to give them
away ; what then is the use of that word ? " It was stricken
out, and "hats" followed it, the rather as there was one
painted on the board. So the inscription was reduced ulti-
mately to "John Thompson," with the figure of a hat
subjoined.' "

Franklin's care for the purity of the language, and his
nice precision in the use of words, constantly appear in his
correspondence. Noah Webster sent him his "Disserta-
tions on the English Language. " Franklin replied (Decem-
ber 26, 1789): "I cannot but applaud your zeal for preserv-
ing the purity of our language, both in its expressions and
pronunciation, and in correcting the popular errors several
of our states are continually falling into with respect to both.
Give me leave to mention some of them, though possibly
they may have already occurred to you. I wish, however,
in some future publication of yours, you would set a dis-
countenancing mark upon them. The first I remember is
the word improved. When I left New England in the year

40 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

'23, this word had never been used among us, as far as I
know, but in the sense of ameliorated or made better, except
once in a very old book of Dr. Mather's, entitled 'Remark-
able Providences.' As that eminent man wrote a very
obscure hand, I remember that when I read that word in
his book used instead of the word imployed, I conjectured
that it was an error of the printer, who had mistaken a too
short / in the writing for an r, and a y with too short a tail
for a v, whereby imployed was converted into improved.
But when I returned to Boston, in 1733, I found this change
had obtained favour, and was then become common; for I
met with it often in perusing the newspapers where it fre-
quently made an appearance rather ridiculous. Such, for
instance, as the advertisement of a country-house to be sold,
which had been many years improved as a tavern ; and, in
the character of a deceased country gentleman, that he had
been for more than thirty years improved as a justice-of-
peace. This use of the word improved is peculiar to New
England, and not to be met with among any other speakers
of English, either on this or the other side of the water.
During my late absence in France I find that several other
new words have been introduced into our parliamentary
language; for example, I find a verb formed from the sub-
stantive notice; 'I should not have noticed were it not that
the gentleman, ' etc. Also another verb from the substantive
advocate; ' The gentleman who advocates or has advocated
that motion,' etc. Another from the substantive progress,
the most awkward and abominable of the three; 'The
Committee having progressed, resolved to adjourn.' The
word opposed, tho' not a new word, I find used in a new
manner, as, ' The gentlemen who are opposed to this meas-

THE WORKS OF FRANKLIN 41

ure ; to which I have also myself always been opposed. ' If
you should happen to be of my opinion with respect to these
innovations you will use your authority in reprobating
them."

The whole of this letter, written less than four months
before his death, is full of interest.

When David Hume received from Franklin a copy of his
so-called "Canada pamphlet," he gave the author a few
words of "friendly admonition relating to some unusual
words in the pamphlet. " Pejorate, colonize, and unshakeable
were three of the words that came under censure. Frank-
lin gave up the first two as bad, since they were provincial
and not in common use in Great Britain, "for certainly,"
he wrote, "in writings intended for persuasion and for gen-
eral information, one cannot be too clear; and every ex-
pression in the least obscure is a fault. The unshakeable
too, though clear, I give up as rather low. The introducing
new words where we are already possessed of old ones suffi-
ciently expressive, I confess must be generally wrong, as it
tends to change the language ; yet, at the same time I cannot
but wish the usage of our tongue permitted making new
words, when we want them, by composition of old ones
whose meanings are already well understood. The German
allows of it, and it is a common practice with their writers.
Many of our present English words were originally so made ;
and many of the Latin words. In point of clearness
such compound words would have the advantage of any we
can borrow from the ancient or from foreign languages.
For instance the word inaccessible, though long in use among
us, is not yet, I dare say, so universally understood by our
people, as the word uncomeatable would immediately be,

42 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

which we are not allowed to write. But I hope, with you,
that we shall always in America make the best English of
this island our standard, and I believe it will be so. I assure
you it often gives me pleasure to reflect how greatly the
audience (if I may so term it) of a good English writer will,
in another century or two, be increased by the increase of
English people in our colonies."

From which rational conception of literature, and from
his experiences in winning the mastery of a powerful and
persuasive style, it may be inferred that Franklin's Eng-
lish is no intertissued robe of gold and pearl, no taffeta
phrases and silken terms precise, but honest, homely, hearty
speech, without obscurity or ambiguity, an English that
speaks in russet yeas and honest kersey noes.

It may not seem high commendation to say that Frank-
lin was the chief American writer at a time when men of
letters were rare as Phoenix. But his significance in litera-
ture appears when we remember that he was the first Ameri-
can to transcend provincial boundaries and limitations,
and the first author and scientist to achieve wide and per-
manent reputation in Europe. Before his Autobiography
but one literary work of real importance had been done in
the colonies, and that was the stupendous "Magnalia" of
Cotton Mather, a vast glacial boulder and monument of
what C. F. Adams has happily called the "ice age" of New
England Puritanism. The Autobiography was quite another
thing. It was vivid, truthful, thrilling with life, for it was
the simple, fascinating narrative of a career that began in
lowly surroundings and ended in splendour. It contained
therefore the substance of the stories that have chiefly inter-
ested the world. Nothing but the "Autobiography" of

THE WORKS OF FRANKLIN 43

Benvenuto Cellini, or the "Confessions" of Rousseau, can
enter into competition with it. It is an abiding monument
of American life and letters. In the United States it has
been reprinted many scores of times, and it has been
translated into all the languages of Europe; however the
fashions of literature change the vogue of this work is un-
alterable. At the circulating libraries the demand for it is
constant. One of the leading merchants of the world, who
rose from low estate to power and wealth and influence, and
whose name is well known in literature, has said that when
a boy a copy of A. Millar's edition of the Autobiography
was one of his very few books. He read it again
and again, and he ascribes a very large portion of his suc-
cess in life to the lessons of perseverance, self-reliance, and
economy illustrated in it. Many other instances of such
encouragement and inspiration doubtless exist.

Franklin's writings have two objects: to instruct in
principles of science and to influence conduct. The latter
works alone have real literary worth. In all that relates to
personal prosperity and the happiness of private life, his
reasoning is convincing and his style dignified and admi-
rable. In the Prefaces and Prognostications of "Poor
Richard," Franklin as man of letters shows to the best ad-
vantage, and here the theme is always practical wisdom in
the conduct of life. "Father Abraham's Speech to the
American People at an Auction," which appeared in "Poor
Richard's Almanac" for 1758, is the best example of this
style, and the best sermon ever preached upon industry
and frugality. It is a cento of homely saws and practical
quotations. Reprinted as "The Way to Wealth," it became
at once familiar to the world. It was copied into all the

44 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

newspapers of the continent, and circulated in Great Britain
as a broadside. "Seventy editions of it have been printed
in English, fifty-six in French, eleven in German, and nine
in Italian. It has been translated into Spanish, Danish,
Swedish, Welsh, Polish, Gaelic, Russian, Bohemian, Dutch,
Catalan, Chinese, Modern Greek, and phonetic writing.
It has been printed at least four hundred times, and is to-day
as popular as ever" (P. L. Ford).

Balzac knew intimately well the writings of two Ameri-
cans, Franklin and Cooper. Both made deep impression
upon him. When under the influence of "Poor Richard"
he created the character of M. Gausse in "Le Vicaire des
Ardennes," a youthful piece of folly which he afterward
disowned. M. Gausse is the lean Yankee moralist Abraham
metamorphosed into a corpulent French vicar, who utters
sage prudential maxims gathered from a careful reading of
the Philadelphia almanacs. At a maturer period Balzac
summed up Franklin's achievement in a terse epigram:
"Le canard est une trouvaille de Franklin, qui a invent^
le paratonnerre, le canard, et la re"publique. " * The inventor
of the lightning rod, the hoax, and the republic! These
three achievements may serve to introduce a classification
of Franklin's works, which may accordingly be arranged in
three groups : philosophy, politics, and bagatelles.

The philosophical writings are the most numerous and
important. They cover a singularly wide range, and touch
upon an astonishing variety of subjects. In every depart-
ment of thought the leaders of scientific inquiry in Europe
were curious to know Franklin's opinions, and gave respect-
ful attention to every suggestion and conjecture that pro-

1 Balzac, " Illusions perdues, II Partie, un Grand Homme de Province a Paris."

THE WORKS OF FRANKLIN 45

ceeded from that fertile brain. His works comprehended
almost every phase of intellectual activity known to the
eighteenth century. Hume expressed the sentiment with
which Europe regarded Franklin, the man of science, when
he wrote to him (May 10, 1762) : "America has sent us many
good things, gold, silver, sugar, tobacco, indigo, etc., but
you are the first philosopher and indeed the first great
man of letters for whom we are beholden to her. It is our
own fault that we have not kept him; whence it appears
that we do not agree with Solomon that wisdom is above
gold; for we take care never to send back an ounce of the
latter, which we once lay our fingers upon. "

Franklin was a true searcher into nature, humble in the
pursuit of truth. His philosophical writings were the prod-
ucts of rare intervals of repose. The business of his life was
politics. And during a great part of his life it was a very
exacting business, which left him little time or strength for
any other occupation. Occasionally he turned from the
irksome toil and incredible worry of his public duties —
selling of prize ships, adjusting of differences between rival
captains, begging for money for ragged and hungry soldiers,
receiving diplomatic visitors and ambitious aspirants for
military positions, corresponding with Congress, or writing
political articles for the Gazette de Leyde, or the London
Chronicle, to influence popular opinion in England and
upon the continent — to divert and solace and refresh him-
self with scientific experiments or brief excursions into the
conjectural and debatable subjects of new philosophical
research. He knew the immensity of the world of knowl-
edge. He realized and deplored the infinite labours and
distractions that interfered with his exploration of those

46 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

untravelled fields, of which occasional glimpses were vouch-
safed to him. He was therefore dissatisfied with his own
investigations. Unwelcome visitors and uncongenial busi-
ness interrupted these "more pleasing pursuits," until he
said, "The chain of thought necessary to be closely con-
tinued in such disquisitions [is] so broken and disjointed,
that it is with difficulty I satisfy myself in any of them."
The complaint of the scholar whose precious time is con-
sumed in unprofitable occupations is heard in many of
Franklin's letters. Writing to Dr. Ingenhousz (April 29,
1785) he says: "Besides being harassed by too much busi-
ness, I am exposed to numberless visits, some of kindness
and civility, many of mere idle curiosity, from strangers of
America and of different parts of Europe as well as the
inhabitants of the provinces who come to Paris. These
devour my hours, and break my attention, and at night I
often find myself fatigued without having done anything.
Celebrity may for a while flatter one's vanity, but its effects
are troublesome. I have begun to write two or three things
which I wish to finish before I die, but I sometimes doubt
the possibility."

It was for this reason that he set no high value upon his
scientific papers, which he regarded as random and imper-
fect. He called them "Loose Thoughts," "Conjectures
and Suppositions"; and as though apologizing for them he
said he had a penchant for building hypotheses, — "they
indulge my natural indolence."

To Peter Collinson he wrote, when sending to him a large
philosophical packet: "These thoughts, my dear friend,
are many of them crude and hasty; and if I were merely
ambitious of acquiring some reputation in philosophy, I

THE WORKS OF FRANKLIN 47

ought to keep them by me, till corrected and improved by
time and farther experience. But since even short hints
and imperfect experiments in any new branch of science
being communicated, have oftentimes a good effect, in excit-
ing the attention of the ingenious to the subject, and so
become the occasion of more exact disquisition, and more
complete discoveries, you are at liberty to communicate
this paper to whom you please ; it being of more importance
that knowledge should increase than that your friend should
be thought an accurate philosopher. " * His modesty was
genuine, and not a cloak for secret pride. Louis XV com-
manded Abbe Maze" as to write a letter in the politest terms
to the Royal Society, to return the king's thanks and
compliments in an express manner to Mr. Franklin of Penn-
sylvania, for his useful discoveries in electricity, and appre-
ciation of the pointed rods to prevent the terrible effects
of thunder-storms. When Collinson conveyed this flattering
news to Franklin, the latter would have been more or less
than human not to have experienced a sense of elation, but
he wrote to Jared Eliot: "The Taller tells us of a girl who
was observed to grow suddenly proud, and none could
guess the reason till it came to be known that she had got on
a pair of new silk garters. ... I fear I have not so much
reason to be proud as the girl had ; for a feather in the cap
is not so useful a thing, or so serviceable to the wearer, as a
pair of good silk garters." Many instances might be men-
tioned of Franklin's native modesty. Nogaret sent to him
his translation of Turgot's famous line " Eripuit caelo fulmen,
sceptnimque tyrannis." Franklin replied, "J'ai recu la
lettre dans laquelle apres m'avoir accable* d'un torrent de

1 To Peter Collinson, September, 1753.

48 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

Compliments qui me causent un Sentiment pe'nible, car je
ne puis espeVer les meriter jamais. ... Je vous ferai seule-
ment remarquer deux inexactitudes dans le vers original.
Malgr6 mes experiences sur Fe'lectricite', la foudre tombe
toujours a notre nez et a notre barbe, et quant au tyrans
nous avons 6t6 plus d'un million d'hommes occupe* a lui
arracher son sceptre."

He experienced profound mortification when Dr. Rush
concluded a scientific paper with a eulogy of him, which he
read in his presence. He wrote to Rush: "During our long
acquaintance you have shown many instances of your regard
for me; yet I must now desire you to add one more to the
number, which is, that if you publish your ingenious dis-
course on the Moral Sense you will totally omit and suppress
that most extravagant encomium on your friend Franklin
which hurt me exceedingly in the unexpected hearing and
will mortify me beyond conception if it should appear from
the press" (March, 1786).

His modesty, simplicity, and sincerity are charming traits,
and his contributions to science are delightful reading. Every
paper is characterized by downright perspicacity of thought
and forthright directness of style. He never labours at a
problem or seems to put forth his whole strength. There
is neither tug nor strain nor occasional descent of fog. His
thought stands in clear, hard, noonday light with graphical
precision of logical exposition. His imagination does not
tyrannize over his reason or distort his vision. He sees
things as they really are. Pedantry and obscurity are far
from him. Sometimes he refers cheerfully to the manner
in which philosophers darken counsel with cabalistic signs
and formulae, or by "pronouncing of some doubtful phrase."

THE WORKS OF FRANKLIN 49

At the close of a paper on "Water-spouts and Whirlwinds,"
he says: "If my hypothesis is not the truth itself it is at
least as naked for I have not with some of our learned
moderns disguised my nonsense in Greek, clothed it in
algebra or adorned it with fluxions. You have it in puris
naturalibus."

Sir Humphry Davy — "summus Arcanorum Naturae
Indagator" — was an excellent judge of literary merit as well
as of scientific research. He was so delighted with the pre-
cision and perspicacity of Franklin's style that he said:
"A singular felicity guided all Franklin's researches, and by
very small means he established very grand truths. The
style and manner of his publication on electricity are almost
as worthy of admiration as the doctrine it contains. He
has endeavoured to remove all mystery and obscurity from
the subject. He has written equally for the uninitiated and
for the philosopher; and he has rendered his details amus-
ing as well as perspicuous, elegant as well as simple. Science
appears in his language in a dress wonderfully decorous,
the best adapted to display her native loveliness. He has in
no instance exhibited that false dignity, by which philosophy
is kept aloof from common applications ; and he has sought
rather to make her a useful inmate and servant in the com-
mon habitations of man, than to preserve her merely as an
object of admiration in temples and palaces."

He was as simple, clear, and direct in his experiments as
in his style. This was the peculiarity for which, in Lord
Brougham's estimation, Franklin's genius was so remark-
able. "He could make an experiment," said Brougham,
" with less apparatus and conduct his experimental inquiry
to a discovery with more ordinary materials than any other

VOL. I — E

So THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

philosopher we ever saw. With an old key, a silk thread,
some sealing wax and a sheet of paper he discovered the
identity of lightning and electricity." l

Innumerable are the stories that are told of his ingenuity
in that way; and an instructive little volume of simple and
economical experiments might be compiled from his philo-
sophical writings. A thermometer was sent to him from
England and was broken in the passage. Mr. Bird, the
instrument maker in London, was of opinion that it was
impracticable to mend it. The tube was whole, but the
ball was broken. Franklin told Collinson how he tried to
repair it. "I got a thin Copper Ball nicely made, and
fix'd to the Tube with a Screw Plug entering the Ball at the
Bottom, by means of which Screw going into the cavity of
the Ball, more or less, among the Mercury, I hoped to lessen
or enlarge the Cavity at Pleasure, and by that Means find
the true Quantity of Mercury it ought to contain to rise
and fall exactly with the others in the same Temperature of
Air etc. ... I was much pleas'd with my Project but I
find difficulties in the Execution which I did not foresee
tho' they must occur to him [Bird] immediately." *

During a voyage from Madeira to Philadelphia, Franklin
became interested in the singular behaviour of the oil in a
cabin lamp of Italian construction. He wrote to Sir John
Pringle a description of it, which I venture to repeat here:
"At supper, looking on the lamp, I remarked, that though
the surface of the oil was perfectly tranquil, and duly pre-
served its position and distance with regard to the brim of
the glass, the water under the oil was in great commotion,

1 Brougham, Works (Edinburgh, 1872). VI, 253.
a To Collinson, June 26, 1755.

THE WORKS OF FRANKLIN" 51

rising and falling in irregular waves which continued during
the whole evening. The lamp was kept burning as a watch-
lamp all night, till the oil was spent and the water only
remained. In the morning I observed that though the
motion of the ship continued the same, the water was now
quiet, and its surface as tranquil as that of the oil had been
the evening before. At night again when oil was put upon
it, the water resumed its irregular motions, rising in high
waves almost to the surface of the oil, but without disturb-
ing the smooth level of that surface. And this was repeated
every day during the voyage." l After his arrival in America
he repeated the experiment thus. He put a pack thread
round a tumbler, with strings of the same from each side,
meeting above it in a knot at about a foot distance from the
top of the tumbler. "Then putting in as much water as
would fill about one third part of the tumbler I lifted it up
by the knot, and swung it to and fro in the air; when the
water seemed to keep its place in the tumbler as steadily as
if it had been ice. But pouring gently in upon the water
about as much oil, and then again swinging it in the air as
before, the tranquillity before possessed by the water was
transferred to the surface of the oil, and the water under it
was agitated with the same commotions as at sea." Frank-
lin showed this experiment to many ingenious persons.
Those who knew little of the principles of hydrostatics were
apt to fancy that they understood it, but their explanations
were not very intelligible. "Others, more deeply skilled
in those principles, seem to wonder at it, and promise to
consider it. And I think it is worth considering ; for a new
appearance if it cannot be explained by our old principles

xTo Sir John Pringle, December I, 1762.

52 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

may afford us new ones of use perhaps in explaining some
other obscure parts of natural knowledge." The present
writer has had the same experience in his search for an
explanation; from the physicists to whom he has submitted
the problem, he has received promises "to consider it."

Franklin introduced into England the pulse-glass, by
which water is made to boil in vactw by the heat of the
hand. Nairne, the mathematical instrument maker, made
a number of them from the one that Franklin brought from
Germany. Franklin bored a very small hole through the
wainscot in the seat of his window, through which a little
cold air constantly entered, while the air in the room was
kept warmer by fires daily made in it. "I placed one of
his glasses, with the elevated end against the hole; and the
bubbles from the other end, which was in a warmer situation
were continually passing day and night, to the no small
surprise of even philosophical spectators." His library
was filled with odd mechanical contrivances of his own
invention. Upon the chimneypiece a globe floated between
two liquids. The seat of his arm-chair when turned up
became a step-ladder, while to the arm of the chair was
attached a fan which was operated by a slight motion of
the foot. Upon the bookcase rested "the long arm," an
invention intended for the easy bringing down of books
from top shelves.

Even his clock was of his own invention, and is one of the
curiosities of horology. It is described by him in a letter
to Dr. Ingenhousz (April 29, 1785) as a clock with three
wheels. It is usually called Ferguson's clock, and was con-
trived by that rare mathematical genius, James Ferguson, in
1758, as an improvement upon Franklin's idea. In his

THE WORKS OF FRANKLIN 53

"Select Mechanical Exercises" Ferguson says it is "A
clock that shows the hours, minutes, and seconds by means
of only three wheels and two pinions in the whole move-
ment. As Dr. Franklin whom I rejoice to call my friend
is perhaps the last person in the world who would take
anything amiss that looks like an amendment or improve-
ment of any scheme he proposes, I have ventured to offer my
thoughts concerning his clock, and how one might be made
as simple as his with some advantages. But I must confess
that my alteration is attended with some inconveniences, of
which his are entirely free." There is a curious old clock
now in the Museum at Banff that has engraved on it "John
T. Desaguliers, LL.D., 1729, Lect. on Nat. et Exp. Phil.,
London. Benjamin Franklin, LL.D., 1757. James Fer-
guson, 1766. Kenneth McCulloch, 1774," and the initials
"G. W."1

Franklin's mind teemed with ideas. In a single letter
he speaks of linseed oil, northeast storms, the origin of
springs in mountains, petrified shells in the Appalachians,
and tariff laws — subjects apparently far apart and with
little connection, and yet they are linked together with
relevancy enough, for, as he said with homely comparison,
"ideas will string themselves like ropes of onions."

His philosophical writings relate to subjects of electric-
ity, seismology, geology, meteorology, physics, chemistry,
astronomy, mathematics, hydrography, horology, aeronau-
tics, navigation, agriculture, ethnology, paleontology, medi-
cine, hygiene, and pedagogy.

As the papers upon electricity are the most important,

1 " Life of James Ferguson, F. R.S., by E. Henderson, LL.D. A. Fullarton
& Co. Ed. Lond. & Glasgow, 1867," p. 232.

54 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

they shall be reserved to the last. One of the first of his
essays upon scientific theory appeared in the Pennsylvania
Gazette in 1737. It related to the "causes of earthquakes."
He adopted the thin crust theory of the earth, and recited
the history of several famous instances of seismic disturb-
ance. His notions are so crude, and now so worthless,
and the whole essay so immature, that I have seen no good
reason to make room for it in this edition.

The best of his geologic papers is his letter to Abbe* Sou-
lavie, "On the Theory of the Earth" (September 22, 1782).
The Abb£ sent to Franklin some notes he had taken of his
conversation upon this subject, and Franklin replied with
this letter, intended, as he said, "to set him right in some
points wherein he had mistaken my meaning." Six years
later the letter was read at a meeting of The American
Philosophical Society (November 21, 1788). Franklin had
noticed that at the lowest part of the calcareous rock in
Derbyshire, there were oyster shells mixed in the stone,
"and part of the high county of Derby being probably as
much above the level of the sea, as the coal mines of White-
haven were below it, seemed a proof that there had been a
great bouleversement in the surface of that island, some part
of it having been depressed under the sea, and other parts
which had been under it, being raised above it. Such changes
in the superficial parts of the globe seemed to me unlikely
to happen, if the earth were solid to the centre. I therefore
imagined, that the internal parts might be a fluid more dense
and of greater specific gravity than any of the solids we are
acquainted with, which therefore might swim in or upon
that fluid. Thus the surface of the globe would be a shell,
capable of being broken and disordered by the violent move-

PHILOSOPHICAL WORKS 55

ments of the fluid on which it rested." He theorizes with
regard to the changes that the earth has undergone in geo-
logic time, and concludes with the particular instance of
his own neighbourhood : " Such an operation as this possibly
occasioned much of Europe, and among the rest this moun-
tain of Passy on which I live, and which is composed of
limestone, rock, and sea shells to be abandoned by the sea,
and to change its ancient climate, which seems to have been
a hot one." This letter has peculiar interest, as it is a rare
occasion when Franklin permits himself "to wander a
little in the wilds of fancy."

Franklin's utilitarian philosophy discovered a providential
and beneficent purpose in the catastrophes which the earth
has suffered. Writing to Sir John Pringle (January 6,
1758) he said: "Had the different strata of clay, gravel,
marble, coals, limestone, sand, minerals, etc., continued to
lie level, one under the other, as they may be supposed to
have done before these convulsions, we should have had the
use only of a few of the uppermost of the strata, the others
lying too deep and too difficult to be come at ; but, the shell
of the earth being broke, and the fragments thrown into
this oblique position, the disjointed ends of a great number
of strata of different kinds are brought up to-day, and a great
variety of useful materials put into our power, which would
otherwise have remained eternally concealed from us. So
that what has been usually looked upon as a ruin suffered
by this part of the universe, was, in reality, only a preparation
or means of rendering the earth more fit for use, more capable
of being to mankind a convenient and comfortable habita-
tion."

John Whitehurst, a maker of watches and philosophical

56 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

instruments, who wrote an "Inquiry into the Original State
and Formation of the Earth" , was one of Franklin's
friends, and much correspondence must have passed between
them. He lived at Derby, and was intimately acquainted
with Anthony Tissington, who entertained Franklin at
Stanwick in Derbyshire. Franklin's letters to Whitehurst
have not been found, but several from the latter to Franklin
are well known. Upon one occasion he sends him a present
of a Derbyshire ham, and informs him that it has gone by
the "Derby dilly." At another time he introduces a young
artist named Powell — "a sober worthy youth" — who desires
to study under Benjamin West. In 1779 he sends him a
copy of his "Inquiry," by the hand of Baron Waites, a
mineralogist, who has been visiting the mineral localities
of Derbyshire.

In the British Museum is a copy of a book entitled "A
Letter to a Friend on the mineral customs of Derbyshire.
In which the Question relative to the claim of the Duty of
Lot on Smitham is occasionally considered. By a Derby-
shire working miner. London. Printed for the Author
and sold by T. Payne. 1766." Knowing the friendliness
that existed between Tissington, Whitehurst, and Franklin,
it is not a little curious to discover in this volume the follow-
ing manuscript note: "Mr. Ince of Wirksworth, Atty, told
me on the 26 Nov. 1794 that this pamphlet was wrote by
Dr. Benjamin Franklin, the celebrated patriot and champion
of American liberty and independence, during one of his
visits to Mr. Anthy. Tissington of Stanwick in the Co. of
Derby; at whose desire it was wrote and by whom the
subject matter was suggested. The information is of a
very superficial kind and the language does the Doctor no

PHILOSOPHICAL WORKS 57

great credit. It was intended by Mr. Tissington to rouse
the interested passions of the common working miners to
oppose a very just demand made on them by Mr. Rowls
(lessee of the Duchy) of lot on Smytham and perhaps might
be sufficiently calculated for that purpose notwithstanding
its defects." The note is signed "A. W." The awkward
blundering manner of the writing bears no resemblance to
the smooth and even style of Franklin. But the very ascrip-
tion of the pamphlet to him indicates the extension of his
fame, and the respect in which his technical and scientific
knowledge was held.

Among Franklin's papers upon meteorology will be
found his interesting discovery that our northeast storms
originate in the southwest. In two letters (to Jared Eliot,
February 13, 1750, and to Alexander Small, May 12, 1760)
he has developed this theory. I have omitted the first-named
letter since they are practically identical, and it would be
superfluous to reprint both. His explanation is interesting
for the simplicity and directness of his illustrations: "Sup-
pose a great tract of country, land and sea, to wit, Florida
and the Bay of Mexico, to have clear weather for several
days, and to be heated by the sun, and its air thereby ex-
ceedingly rarefied. Suppose the country northeastward, as
Pennsylvania, New England, Nova Scotia, and Newfound-
land, to be at the same time covered with clouds, and its air
chilled and condensed. The rarefied air being lighter must
rise, and the denser air next to it will press into its place ;
that will be followed by the next denser air, that by the next
and so on. Thus, when I have a fire in my chimney, there
is a current of air constantly flowing from the door to the
chimney ; but the beginning of the motion was at the chim-

58 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

ney, where the air being rarefied by the fire rising, its place
was supplied by the cooler air that was next to it, and the
place of that by the next, and so on to the door. So the
water in a long sluice or mill-race, being stopped by a gate,
is at rest like the air in a calm; but as soon as you open
the gate at one end to let it out, the water next the gate
begins first to move, that which is next to it follows ; and so,
though the water proceeds forward to the gate, the motion
which began there runs backwards, if one may so speak, to
the upper end of the race, where the water is last in motion.
We have on this continent a long ridge of mountains running
from northeast to southwest; and the coast runs the same
course." *

Alexander Dallas Bache, Superintendent of the Coast
Survey, and a great-grandson of Franklin, deemed the dis-
covery of sufficient importance to enter into an elaborate
astronomical inquiry to determine the precise date when it
was made. It is another instance of the nice inquisitiveness
of Franklin's mind. He had attempted to observe an
eclipse of the moon at nine o'clock in the evening, but before
night a storm blew up at northeast and continued violent
for a night and a day. The storm extended all along the
coast and did much damage, but Franklin was surprised
to find in the Boston newspapers an account of an obser-
vation of that eclipse made there. As the storm came from
the northeast it should have begun sooner at Boston than
at Philadelphia. He wrote to his brother about it and
learned that the eclipse was over an hour before the storm
began at Boston. Further inquiries convinced him that
northeast storms begin to leeward, and have their beginning

1 To Jared Eliot, February 13, 1749-1750.

PHILOSOPHICAL WORKS 59

always later the further northeastward; the proportion of
time to distance being about an hour to every hundred
miles.

Speaking from memory, Franklin said in his letter to
Small that the eclipse in question was "about twenty
years ago." Professor Bache consulted the ephemerides,
and found that the eclipse occurred in the evening of Octo-
ber 21, I743.1

The most interesting of the meteorological papers relate
to waterspouts and whirlwinds, which Franklin believed to
be similar and to proceed from the same cause, "the only
difference between them being, that the one passes over land,
the other over water." 2

In 1755 he had an opportunity of seeing and examining
a whirlwind, a graphic description of which he sent to Peter
Collinson (August 25, 1755). He was riding with Colonel
Tasker to his country-seat in Maryland when, in the vale
below them, a small whirlwind began in the road. Franklin
describes it with his customary clearness and precision. "It
appeared in the form of a sugar loaf, spinning on its point,
moving up the hill towards us and enlarging as it came for-
ward. When it passed by us, its smaller part near the ground
appeared no bigger than a common barrel; but widening
upwards it seemed at forty or fifty feet high, to be twenty or
thirty feet in diameter. The rest of the company stood look-

1 " An Attempt to fix the Date of the Observation of Dr. Franklin in Rela-
tion to the Northeast Storms of the Atlantic Coast of the United States. By
A. D. Bache, Journal of the Franklin Institute, 1833."

2 See the letter to John Perkins, February 4, 1753; read at the Royal
Society, June 24, 1756. And a further paper, "Physical and Meteorologi-
cal Observations, Conjectures and Suppositions," read at the Royal Society,
June 3, 1756.

60 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

ing after it; but my curiosity being stronger I followed it,
riding close by its side, and observed its licking up in its
progress all the dust that was under its smaller part. As
it is a common opinion that a shot, fired through a water-
spout will break it, I tried to break this little whirlwind, by
striking my whip frequently through it, but without any
effect. Soon after it quitted the road and took into the
woods, growing every moment larger and stronger, raising,
instead of dust, the old dry leaves with which the ground
was thick covered, and making a great noise with them and
the branches of the trees, bending some tall trees round in
a circle swiftly and very surprisingly, though the progressive
motion of the whirl was not so swift but that a man on foot
might have kept pace with it, but the circular motion was
amazingly rapid. By the leaves it was now filled with, I
could plainly perceive, that the current of air they were driven
by, moved upwards in a spiral line; and when I saw the
passing whirl continue entire, after leaving the trunks and
bodies of large trees which it had enveloped, I no longer
wondered that my whip had no effect on it in its smaller
state. . . . When we rejoined the company, they were ad-
miring the vast height of the leaves now brought by the com-
mon wind over our heads. These leaves accompanied us
as we travelled, some falling now and then round about
us, and some not reaching the ground till we had gone
near three miles from the place where we first saw the
whirlwind begin. Upon my asking Colonel Tasker if
such whirlwinds were common in Maryland he answered
pleasantly, 'No, not at all common; but we got this on
purpose to treat Mr. Franklin.' And a very high treat it
was."

PHILOSOPHICAL WORKS 61

Much of his correspondence concerning meteorology was
carried on with Dr. Thomas Percival, of Manchester, a friend
of Bishop Watson, of Llandaff. To him Franklin consigned
his inquiry into the cause of the severe cold in the winter of
1783-1784, which Percival communicated to the Literary
and Philosophical Society of Manchester.1 The severity of
that winter Franklin believed to be due to a constant fog
that existed over all Europe and great part of North Amer-
ica during several of the summer months of 1783. "This fog
was of a permanent nature ; it was dry, and the rays of the
sun seemed to have little effect towards dissipating it, as
they easily do a moist fog, arising from water. They were
indeed rendered so faint in passing through it, that when
collected in the focus of a burning-glass, they would scarcely
kindle brown paper. Of course their summer effect in heat-
ing the earth was exceedingly diminished." He conjectured
that this strange and persistent fog originated in the con-
sumption by fire of some great aerolite kindled and destroyed
in passing our atmosphere, "and whose smoke might be
attracted and retained by our earth," or in the vast quantity
of volcanic smoke emitted during the eruption of Mount
Hecla.

Franklin also sent to Percival his paper on the " Con-
sumption of Smoke." Percival had observed with concern
a large annual increase of pulmonary complaints in
Manchester, then a town of forty-six thousand in-
habitants. After reading Franklin's essay, he became
convinced that the smoke from the velvet dress works, par-
ticularly acrimonious and offensive to the lungs, was the

1 It was read before that society, December 22, 1 784, and printed in the
" Memoirs," Vol. II, p. 357.

62 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

cause of the alarming increase of cases of consumption.
He therefore offered a representation to the magistrates at
the ensuing Quarter Sessions "of the expediency and neces-
sity of adopting some measures to purify the air of Man-
chester."

In physics and chemistry Franklin was in correspondence
and personal contact with Priestley, Cavendish, and Lavoisier.
He was therefore familiar with the new ideas concerning the
properties of matter, and was able by experimental research
and by suggestion to assist in the development of the theories
of light and heat, which were already shaping toward the
modern doctrine of the forces of nature. Lavoisier invited
him to his laboratory, when a new and important experiment
was to be tried. Priestley consulted him at every step, as he
groped his way toward a more perfect understanding of the
nature of gases. In his " Experiments on Air," Priestley pub-
lished the letters he had received from Franklin, which opened
new horizons to him and set him upon novel ways of thought
and experiment. In one such letter, dated April 10, 1774,
Franklin gave what is perhaps the earliest clear account of
marsh-gas. As early as 1764 he had experimentally ignited
the surface of certain rivers in New Jersey, after stirring
up the mud at the bottom in shallow places. He mentioned
the fact to some philosophical friends in England, but was
thought to have been beguiled by his overcredulity. A
paper prompted by his investigations was offered to the
Royal Society , and denied a place in the Transac-
tions because it was thought too strange to be true. With
genuine scientific enthusiasm and perseverance, Franklin
tried the experiment in England until, from bending over
the stagnant water of a deep ditch and breathing too

PHILOSOPHICAL WORKS 63

much of the foul air, he was seized with an intermittent
fever.

Experiments that he had not time or means of making
he was constantly recommending to his philosophical ac-
quaintance. He asked M. de Saussure, the Genevese pro-
fessor who ascended Mont Blanc, to try to ascertain the
lateral attraction of the Jura mountains with the view of
determining the mean density of the earth upon the New-
tonian theory of gravitation.1

To Dr. Ingenhousz he suggested "hanging a weight on a
spiral spring, to discover if bodies gravitated differently to
the earth during the conjunctions of the sun and moon, com-
pared with other times." He expected that an iron ball of
a pound weight suspended by a fine spiral spring "should,
when the sun and moon are together both above it, be a little
attracted upwards or rendered lighter, so as to be drawn up
a little by the spring on which it depends, and the contrary
when they are both below it."

Another experiment which, performed by Franklin, ex-
cited universal interest was the pouring of oil upon waters
in a state of tumult. Upon his visit with Sir John Pringle
to the north of England, he accepted the hospitality of Dr.
Brownrigg, a chemist of Cumberland. In his company he
put forth into the midst of Derwentwater, when its waves
were beaten to fury and to foam by a tempestuous mountain
wind, and successfully performed the experiment of smooth-
ing the lake by pouring oil upon its surface. Aristotle and
Plutarch and Pliny had said that it could be done. Frank-

1 Experiments which were subsequently made with entire success by Nevil
Maskelyne on Mt. Schehallion in Perthshire . Franklin's letters to
Saussure were dated October 8 and December I, 1772.

64 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

lin was the first among experimental philosophers to dem-
onstrate that a few drops of oil would tranquillize turbulent
waters.1

So interested was he in his experiment that he was wont
to take with him, when he went into the country, a little oil
in the upper hollow joint of his bamboo cane to watch the
effect upon wind-beaten pools. The novelty of the experi-
ment pleased John Smeaton, the engineer, when Franklin
tried it upon a little pond near his house at Austhorpe
Lodge, near Leeds. He showed it also to Count Bentinck
of Holland and the celebrated Professor Allemand upon a
large piece of water at the head of the Green Park. Alle-
mand repeated the experiment in the ditch about Leyden.
Dr. Percival wrote to Franklin from Manchester (January
10, 1775), "The experiment of stilling waves by pouring oil
upon water was tried here last week with success." William
Small wrote from Birmingham that Matthew Boulton had
"astonished the rural philosophers exceedingly by calming
the waves <i la Franklin"

Abbe* Morellet was at Wycombe in April, 1772, the guest
of Lord Shelburne, and met there Colonel Barre*, Dr. Hawkes-
worth, David Garrick, and Franklin. In his "Memoirs"
he records the interest that the entire party took in Franklin's
experiment with oil. Morellet had regarded it as a fable of
antique writers. "It is true," he writes, "it was not upon
the waves of the sea but upon those of a little stream which
flowed through the park at Wycombe. A fresh breeze was
ruffling the water. Franklin ascended a couple of hundred

1 See Franklin's letter to William Brownrigg, London, November 7, 1773.
This letter was published in Journal des Sfavans, November 6, 1774, from
which it was translated by William Van Lehsveld, of Leyden, into Dutch.

PHILOSOPHICAL WORKS 65

paces from the place where we stood, and simulating the
grimaces of a sorcerer, he shook three times upon the stream
a cane which he carried in his hand. Directly the waves
diminished, and soon the surface was smooth as a mirror." *
Concerning the properties of matter, it is astonishing what
clear conception Franklin had of ideas that we are apt to
regard as of much more recent origin. Long before Young
was born, and while nearly all philosophers held to the
corpuscular theory of light, Franklin had expressed his dissat-
isfaction with the Newtonian hypothesis. He wrote to Col-
linson, "There is nothing that I am so much in the dark about
as light" But when he offered some "loose thoughts on a
universal fluid" to the consideration of David Rittenhouse
(June 25, 1784), he clearly indicated the new theory of light
and foreshadowed the modern doctrine of conservation of
matter. Without giving it a name, he imagined "universal
space as far as we know it ... to be filled with a subtil fluid
whose motions or vibration is called light." He concludes
with this remarkable inference: "The power of man relative
to matter seems limited to the dividing it, or mixing the vari-
ous kinds of it, or changing its form and appearance by
different compositions of it ; but does not extend to the mak-
ing or creating of new matter or annihilating the old. Thus
if fire be an original element, or kind of matter, its quantity
is fixed and permanent in the universe. We cannot destroy
any part of it or make addition to it ; we can only separate it
from that which confines it, and so set it at liberty."

1 " Memoires inedits de L'Abbe Morellet, deuxieme edition, Paris,
MDCCCXXII," Tome Premier, 204.

For other curious observations upon the surface tension of liquids, see
Franklin to Sir John Pringle, December I, 1762.
VOL. I — F

66 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

Professor Schuster conjectures that Franklin did not
probably realize the difficulties in the way of the wave theory
which led Newton to pronounce against it. It may very well
be, but has any philosopher, past or present, denned the
wave theory more clearly or forcibly? Writing to Cadwal-
lader Golden, Franklin said: "May not all the phenomena
of light be more conveniently solved by supposing universal
space filled with a subtle elastic fluid, which, when at rest,
is not visible, but whose vibrations affect that fine sense in
the eye, as those of air do the grosser organs of the ear ? We
do not, in the case of sound, imagine that any sonorous par-
ticles are thrown off from a bell, for instance, and fly in straight
lines to the ear ; why must we believe that luminous particles
leave the sun and proceed to the eye? Some diamonds if
rubbed shine in the dark, without losing any of their matter.
I can make an electric spark as big as the flame of a candle,
much brighter, and therefore visible further ; yet this is with-
out fuel; and, I am persuaded, no part of the electric fluid
flies off in such case, to distant places, but all goes directly,
and is to be found in the place to which I destine it. May
not different degrees of the vibration of the above-mentioned
universal medium, occasion the appearance of different col-
ours? I think the electric fluid is always the same; yet I
find that weaker and stronger sparks differ in apparent
colour, some white, blue, purple, red; the strongest white;
weak ones red. Thus different degrees of vibration given
to the air, produce the seven different sounds in music,
analogous to the seven colours, yet the medium, air, is the
same.

"If the sun is not wasted by expence of light, I can easily
conceive that he shall otherwise alwavs retain the same

PHILOSOPHICAL WORKS 67

quantity of matter; though we should suppose him made of
sulphur constantly flaming.

"The action of fire only separates the particles of matter,
it does not annihilate them. Water, by heat raised in
vapour, returns to the earth in rain; and if we could collect
all the particles of burning matter that go off in smoke, per-
haps they might, with the ashes, weigh as much as the body
before it was fired : And if we could put them into the same
position with regard to each other, the mass would be the
same as before, and might be burnt over again. The chym-
ists have analised sulphur, and find it composed, in certain
proportions, of oil, salt, and earth ; and having by the analy-
sis discovered those proportions, they can, of those ingredients,
make sulphur. So we have only to suppose, that the parts
of the sun's sulphur, separated by fire, rise into his atmos-
phere, and there being freed from the immediate action of
the fire, they collect into cloudy masses, and growing by
degrees, too heavy to be longer supported, they descend to
the sun and are burnt over again. Hence the spots appear-
ing on his face which are observed to diminish daily in size,
their consuming edges being of particular brightness.

"It is well we are not, as poor Galileo was, subject to the
Inquisition for Philosophical Heresy. My whispers against
the orthodox doctrine, in private letters, would be dangerous;
but your writing and printing would be highly criminal." *

The late Dr. Youmans in the Introduction to the American
edition of "Correlation and Conservation of Force" said:
"It was this country, widely reproached for being over-
practical, which produced just that kind of working ability
that was suited to transfer this profound question from the

1 To Cadwallader Golden, April 23, 1752.

68 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

barren to the fruitful field of inquiry. It is a matter of just
national pride that the two men that first demonstrated the
capital propositions of pure science, that lightning is but a
case of common electricity and that heat is but a mode of
motion, who first converted these propositions from con-
jectures of fancy to facts of science, were not only Americans
by birth and education, but eminently representative of the
peculiarities of American character, Benjamin Franklin and
Benjamin Thompson, afterwards known as Count Rumford."

I shall soon have occasion to refer to a letter written by
Robespierre to Franklin requesting information concerning
lightning rods. There is another interesting link between
Franklin and the French Revolution. In 1779 Marat was
conducting his investigations in the nature of heat. Every
paper when completed, and all the drawings and other illus-
trations of experiments, were immediately sent by him to
Franklin with a request for his critical opinion. Several
letters of this character, signed always "The Representative,"
are to be found among Franklin's papers.

Involved in controversy with the philosophers of France,
Marat sought the powerful support of Franklin. Under
date of April 12, 1779, he wrote: "Was it not so material a
point to the Author, that a candid judgment should be passed
upon his work, he would trust to time alone. But he is cer-
tain that many a Accademical gentleman do not look with
pleasure upon his discoveries and will do their utmost to
prejudice the whole Body. Let the cabal be ever so warm,
it certainly will be silenced by the sanction of such a man as
Doctor Franklin: and how far a judgment passed by him-
self and the Royal Academy can influence public opinion
is well known."

PHILOSOPHICAL WORKS 69

Franklin was one of the first in England to experiment
with the production of cold by evaporation. Such experi-
ments were first made in St. Petersburg, and were repeated
in Great Britain by Dr. Cullen and Professor Hadley after
Franklin had directed attention to the subject. In 1758 he
visited the University of Cambridge and was entertained
with great distinction by the vice-chancellor and the heads
of colleges. He told Dr. Hadley, the Professor of Chemistry,
that by wetting his thermometer with common spirits, he
had brought the mercury down five or six degrees. Hadley
proposed repeating the experiments with ether. " We accord-
ingly," wrote Franklin to a correspondent in South Carolina,
"went to his chamber, where he had both ether and a ther-
mometer. By dipping first the ball of the thermometer into
the ether, it appeared that the ether was precisely of the same
temperament with the thermometer, which stood then at
65 ; for it made no alteration in the height of the little column
of mercury. But, when the thermometer was taken out of
the ether, and the ether, with which the ball was wet, began
to evaporate, the mercury sunk several degrees. The wet-
ting was then repeated by a feather that had been dipped
into the ether, when the mercury sunk still lower. We con-
tinued this operation, one of us wetting the ball, and another
of the company blowing on it with the bellows, to quicken
the evaporation, the mercury sinking all the time, till it came
down to 7, which is 25 degrees below the freezing point, when
we left off. Soon after it passed the freezing point, a thin
coat of ice began to cover the ball. Whether this was water
collected and condensed by the coldness of the ball, from the
moisture in the air, or from our breath ; or whether the feather,
when dipped into the ether, might not sometimes go through

TO THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

it, and bring up some of the water that was under it, I am
not certain ; perhaps all might contribute.

"The ice continued increasing till we ended the experi-
ment, when it appeared near a quarter of an inch thick all
over the ball with a number of small spicula, pointing out-
wards. From this experiment one may see the possibility
of freezing a man to death on a warm summer's day, if he
were to stand in a passage through which the wind blew
briskly and to be wet frequently with ether, a spirit that
is more inflammable than brandy or common spirits of
wine,"1

Franklin's correspondence concerning astronomy was lim-
ited to an exchange of letters with Herschel and Maskelyne,
the placing of orders for instruments with Edward Nairne
and William Short, and the announcement of new discov-
eries and theories to David Rittenhouse, Humphry Mar-
shall, and James Bowdoin.

William Herschel sent to Franklin, for The American Phil-
osophical Society, a catalogue of one thousand new nebulae
and clusters of stars; and at the same time communicated
the discovery, on the nth of January, 1787, of "two satellites
revolving round the Georgian planet, the first in about eight
days and three quarters and the second in about twelve and
a half." Franklin in reply congratulated Herschel on his
discovery and said: "You have wonderfully extended the
Power of human Vision and are daily making us acquainted
with Regions of the Universe totally unknown to mankind in
former Ages. Had fortune plac'd you in this part of Amer-
ica [Philadelphia] your Progress in these Discoveries might
have been still more rapid, as from the more frequent clear-

1 To John Lining, June 17, 1758.

PHILOSOPHICAL WORKS 71

ness of our Air, we have near one third more in the year of
good observing Days than there are in England." *

To Nevil Maskelyne, as astronomer at the Greenwich
Observatory, he transmitted the accounts sent by John
Ewing of the Transit of Venus, and by Professor Winthrop
of the Transit of Mercury . A new comet swam into
the ken of Nathan Pigot in his observatory in Yorkshire,
November 19, 1783. Franklin received a report of it from
Sir Joseph Banks, which he promptly transmitted (December
15, 1783) to David Rittenhouse. It was at this time that he
offered a number of queries to James Bowdoin, and among
them the following: "May not a magnetic power exist
throughout our system, perhaps through all systems, so that
if men could make a voyage in the starry regions, a compass
might be of use? And may not such universal magnetism,
with its uniform direction, be serviceable in keeping the diur-
nal revolution of a planet more steady to the same axis?
Lastly, as the poles of magnets may be changed by the pres-
ence of stronger magnets, might not, in ancient times, the
near passing of some large comet, of greater magnetic power
than this globe of ours, have been a means of changing its
poles, and thereby wrecking and deranging its surface, plac-
ing in different regions the effect of centrifugal force, so as
to raise the waters of the sea in some, while they were de-
pressed in others?" A letter to Humphry Marshall (Feb-
ruary 14, 1773) contained a full description of the new
hypothesis concerning sun-spots promulgated by Dr. Wilson,
the professor of astronomy at Glasgow.

Nairne and Bird, in London, and Short, in Edinburgh, were
"mployed by Franklin to make optical instruments for Bow-

1 Franklin to Dr. Herschel, Philadelphia, May 1 8, 1787.

72 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

doin and Winthrop. The telescope made by Short for the
latter cost one hundred pounds, and a transit instrument
for the same person was made at a cost of forty guineas.
Ellicot furnished the glasses for " the long Galilean telescope, "
which he presented to Harvard College. For Franklin's per-
sonal use, Nairne made a pocket achromatic telescope and
"a set of artificial magnets, six in number, each five inches
and a half long, hah0 an inch broad, and one eighth of an inch
thick." These were enclosed in a box of mahogany wood
closed by a shutter of the same wood, the grain of which ran
across the box, and "the ends of this shutting piece were
bevelled so as to fit and slide in a kind of dovetail groove
when the box was to be shut or opened." This was made in
1758. When Franklin returned to America in 1762, upon
first attempting to open the box, he found that a notable
shrinking had taken place in the wood of which it was made,
although during four years in England it had not been visibly
affected by moisture. In December, 1764, he went again
to England and directly the box resumed its original size,
and suffered no further alteration in ten years. It occurred
to Franklin that there was here the material for making a
slowly sensible hygrometer. He wrote to Nairne request-
ing him to take "a number of pieces of the closest and finest
grained mahogany that you can meet with, plane them to
the thinness of about a line, and the width of about two
inches across the grain, and fix each of the pieces in some
instrument that you can contrive, which will permit them
to contract and dilate, and will show, in sensible degrees, by
a moveable hand upon a marked scale, the otherwise less
sensible quantities of such contraction and dilatation. If
these instruments are all kept in the same place while making,

PHILOSOPHICAL WORKS 73

and are graduated together while subject to the same degrees
of moisture or dryness, I apprehend you will have so many
comparable hygrometers which, being sent into different
countries, and continued there for some time, will find and
show there the mean of the different dryness and moisture
of the air of those countries, and that with much less trouble
than by any hygrometer hitherto in use." Nairne, in accord-
ance with the suggestion, constructed such an instrument,
the drawings of which he sent to Franklin on the 26. of
December, 1783.

It was not possible for Franklin to go far in astronomy, as
he was not sufficiently furnished with a knowledge of mathe-
matics. And yet even here his mind sought occasional
diversion in the severe charms of numbers. He was visiting
one day, at Stenton, the country home of James Logan, when
that venerable scholar, who in the previous century would
have been called "a gulf of learning," took from his crowded
shelves a folio French book filled with magic squares, and
remarked upon the great ingenuity and dexterity of M.
Frenicle, the author. Franklin characteristically said that
"it was perhaps a mark of the good sense of our English
mathematicians that they would not spend their time in
things that were merely difficiles nuga, incapable of any
useful application." Logan thought that such practice was
likely to produce an habitual readiness and exactness in
mathematical disquisitions and so might be of real use.
Franklin then admitted that he had amused his idleness
in making this kind of squares. The next time he visited
Logan, he showed him a square of eight which he had found
among his old papers. Logan then showed him an old
arithmetical book in quarto, written by Stifelius, which con-

74 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

tained a square of sixteen that he said he should imagine
must have been a work of great labour. Not willing to be
outdone by Stifelius, even in the size of his square, Franklin
went home and made that evening a magical square of six-
teen, having such remarkable properties that Logan in
amazement called it "thy astonishing or most stupendous
piece of the magical square." Indeed, said Franklin, it
must doubtless be admitted "to be the most magically
magical of any magic square ever made by any magi-
cian." l

The curiosity of mathematicians in various parts of the
world was awakened by these revelations of the surprising
properties of numbers placed in squares and circles. When
a deputation from Rouen met him to welcome him to their
city, they presented him with a magic square that spelled
his name.

The remarkable mathematician James Ferguson paid a
high tribute to Franklin's ingenuity. He said: "I have seen
several different kinds of (what is generally called) magic
squares; but have lately got a magic square of squares and
a magic circle of circles of a very extraordinary kind, from
Dr. Benjamin Franklin of Philadelphia with his leave to
publish them. The magic square goes far beyond anything
of the kind I ever saw before; and the magic circle (which
is the first of the kind I ever heard of, or perhaps any one
besides) is still more surprising. What the Doctor's rules
are, for disposing of the different numbers so as that they
shall have the following properties I know nothing of: and
perhaps the reason may be, that I have not ventured to ask

1 The magical square and the magical circle will be found entered in the
year 1750, and addressed to Peter Collinson.

PHILOSOPHICAL WORKS 75

him; although I never saw a more communicative man in
my life." l

And yet he felt rather ashamed to have it known that he
had spent any part of his time in an employment that could
not possibly be of any use to himself or others. He is for-
ever counting the cost and weighing the practical benefit.
What good will it do? Of what use is it? These are the
touchstones by which he tries all problems. After his inter-
esting series of experiments upon the effects of the sun's rays
upon cloths of different colours (see letter to Miss Steven-
son, September 20, 1761), he concludes: "What signifies
philosophy that does not apply to some use? May we not
learn from hence, that black clothes are not so fit to wear in
a hot, sunny climate or season as white ones; because in
such clothes the body is more heated by the sun when we
walk abroad, and are at the same time heated by the exer-
cise, which double heat is apt to bring on putrid dangerous
fevers? That soldiers and seamen who must march and
labour in the sun should in the East or West Indies have an
uniform of white? That summer hats, for men or women
should be white, as repelling that heat which gives head-
aches to many and to some the fatal stroke that the French
call the coup de soleil ? That the ladies' summer hats, how-
ever, should be lined with black, as not reverberating on their
faces those rays which are reflected upwards from the earth
or water? That the putting a white cap of paper or linen
within the crown of a black hat, as some do, will not keep
out the heat, though it would if placed Without ? That fruit

1 " Tables and Tracts relative to several Arts and Sciences. By James
Ferguson, F.R.S., London, 1767," p. 309. See also Sir Frederick Pollock,
"Philosophical Transactions," Vol. CXLIV, No. XIV, and Vol. CXLIX,
No. III.

76 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

walls being blacked may receive so much heat from the sun
in the daytime as to continue warm in some degree through
the night, and thereby preserve the fruit from frosts or for-
ward its growth ? — With sundry other particulars of less
or greater importance that will occur from time to time to
attentive minds?"

When he narrowly escaped shipwreck and death upon the
Cornish rocks near Falmouth Harbor, he wrote to his wife:
"Were I a Roman Catholic perhaps I should on this occa-
sion vow to build a chapel to some saint; but as I am not,
if I were to vow at all it should be to build a lighthouse."

The happiness of life, he was wont to say, depends upon
its seemingly insignificant utilities ; thus, " if you teach a poor
young man to shave himself and keep his razor in order you
may contribute more to the happiness of his life than in
giving him one thousand guineas."

It is better worth while, he said, to bring back from Italian
travel a receipt for Parmesan cheese, than copies of ancient
historical inscriptions.

Thorough utilitarian as he was, he knew too well the pos-
sibilities that lie perdue in the most unpromising and unlikely
subjects to decry the sober investigation of seemingly useless
and fantastic problems. When he began his inquiry into
mesmerism, his old friend George Whatley wrote to him
(September 20, 1784): "If the Courrier de V Europe say true
you have been desired by S. M. tres Chre*tienne to look into
the business of magnetism. Who more fitting? I shall
never forget your rebuke for my calling my poor gone and
good friend Ellis one of the Conundri for labouring about the
Keratophita, Coralides, and the Lord knows what, when,
hereafter, such Pretenders might be of service to Mankind,

PHILOSOPHICAL WORKS 77

as the Loadstone is understood to have been, several hundreds
of years after its property of attracting iron was discovered."
When aeronautics were in their infancy, and Montgolfier
was beginning his balloon ascensions, some one said,
"What is the use of a balloon?" Franklin replied, "What
is the use of a new-born baby?" He took at once an
active interest in the new experiments, and carried on an
elaborate correspondence with Sir Joseph Banks, President
of the Royal Society, minutely describing various ascensions.
He attended the experiment made November 20, 1783, in
the garden of the Queen's Palace, la muette, then the resi-
dence of the Dauphin, and sent a copy of the Procbs verbal
to Banks with his own explanatory and critical notes. "The
balloon was larger than that which went up from Versailles,
and carried the sheep, etc. Its bottom was open, and in the
middle of the opening was fixed a kind of basket grate in
which faggots and sheaves of straw were burnt. The air,
rarefied in passing through this flame, rose in the balloon,
swelled out its sides, and filled it. The persons who were
placed in the gallery made of wicker and attached to the
outside near the bottom, had each of them a post through
which they could pass sheaves of straw into the grate to keep
up the flame, and thereby keep the balloon full. When it
went over our heads we could see the fire which was very
considerable. As the flame slackens the rarefied air cools
and condenses, the bulk of the balloon diminishes, and it
begins to descend. If these in the gallery see it likely to
descend in an improper place they can, by throwing on more
straw and renewing the flame, make it rise again and the
wind carries it farther." * The courageous philosophers

1 Franklin to Sir Joseph Banks, Passy, November 21, 1783.

78 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

who safely accomplished this feat, Marquis d'Arlandes and
M. Montgolfier, called upon Franklin the evening after the
experiment to report to him their experiences and to receive
his criticisms and suggestions. Sir Joseph Banks replying
to Franklin said: "I laughed when balloons of scarce more
importance than soap bubbles occupied the attention of
France, but when men can with safety pass and do pass
more than five miles in the first experiment I begin to fancy
that I espy the hand of the master in the education of the
infant of knowledge who so speedily attains such a degree
of maturity, and do not scruple to guess that my old friend
who used to assist me when I was younger has had some share
in the success of this enterprise" (November 25, 1783).

In France the ascensions attracted much attention. Great
crowds assembled to watch the aerial explorers take flight.
It is said that three hundred thousand witnessed the first
ascent in Paris from the Champs de Mars, on August 27,
1783. When Professor Charles's second balloon made its
successful ascent, December i, 1783, Franklin wrote: "No-
tice having been given of the intended experiment several
days before in the Papers, so that all Paris was out, either
about the Tuilleries, on the Quays and Bridges, in the Fields,
the Streets, at the Windows, or on the Tops of Houses, be-
sides the Inhabitants of all the Towns and Villages of the
Environs. Never was a Philosophical Experiment so magnifi-
cently conducted." It was upon this occasion that the Duke
of Cumberland was nearly pressed to death in the throng,
and that Joseph Cradock saw the queen of France observing
the ascension from a balcony of the Tuileries, and remarked
that she looked like a very handsome English woman.1

1 J. Cradock, " Memoirs," VoL II, p. 84. London, 1828.

PHILOSOPHICAL WORKS 79

Many inventors attempted to devise dirigible airships, and
several papers descriptive of such inventions are to be seen
among Franklin's papers — "sur divers moyens de diriger
les Aerostats." Among the rest, Henry Smeathman made a
discovery which, to use his own words, depended upon a kind
of paradox, "which is that animals could not fly if they were
lighter than air, — they would float with the wind, — it is by
means of their gravity that they project themselves through
the air, and it is always on inclined planes. This is most
evident in birds of prey; they make long sallies upon one
inclined plane, and when they oppose their wings to the air,
in one of their rapid descents, they are suddenly thrown up-
wards again by the elasticity of it." This account Smeath-
man gave to Franklin, who, upon hearing it, "launched
half a sheet of paper obliquely in the air, observing that
that was an evident proof of the propriety of my doc-
trines." *

Franklin was greatly interested in the improvement of the
balloon in France, and in transmitting to Sir Joseph Banks
"the journal of the first aerial voyage performed by man," he
remarked that but a few months before witches riding on a
broomstick and philosophers upon a bag of smoke would
have appeared equally incredible. But he was disappointed
in the little interest taken in aeronautics in England, and
wrote to Banks (November 21, 1783) : "We should not suffer
pride to prevent our progress in Science. Beings of a rank
and nature far superior to ours have not disdained to amuse
themselves with making and launching balloons, otherwise
we should never have enjoyed the light of those glorious
objects that rule our day and night, nor have had the Pleas-
1 Pettigrew's " Life of Lettsom."

8o THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

ure of riding round the Sun ourselves upon the Balloon we
now inhabit."

The practical benefits of aeronatics which Franklin saw in
the distance are best expressed in a letter to Ingenhousz,
January 16, 1786. "It appears as you observe to be a dis-
covery of great importance, and what may possibly give a
new turn to human affairs. Convincing sovereigns of the
folly of wars may perhaps be one effect of it ; since it will be
impracticable for the most potent of them to guard his do-
minions. Five thousand balloons, capable of raising two
men each, could not cost more than five ships of the line;
and where is the prince who can afford so to cover his country
with troops for its defense, as that ten thousand men descend-
ing from the clouds might not in many places do an infinite
deal of mischief before a force could be brought together to
repel them?" So it seems that Franklin, like Tennyson, —

"... Dipt into the future, far as human eye could see
Saw the Vision of the world, and all the wonder that would be ;

Saw the heavens fill with commerce, argosies of magic sails,
Pilots of the purple twilight, dropping down with costly bales ;

Heard the heavens fill with shouting, and there rained a ghastly dew
From the nations' airy navies grappling in the central blue."

For a child of the eighteenth century, Franklin was an
unusual traveller. He found that his health was improved
by frequent change of scene and air, and the exigencies of
his public career, as postmaster and diplomatic agent, occa-
sioned frequent and distant journeys. He crossed the Atlan-
tic Ocean eight times, and improved the restful monotony
of his voyages by making studies in navigation. He inves-
tigated the Gulf Stream,1 sought the reason for the difference

1 Franklin to David Le Roy, August, 1785.

PHILOSOPHICAL WORKS 81

of navigation in shoal and deep water,1 wrote upon the
saltness of sea-water,2 and how it could be rendered
fresh by distillation,3 on the Bristol waters and the tide
in rivers,4 made observations on the sails and cables of
vessels, and the means of preserving ships from accidents
at sea.5

The Gulf Stream Franklin conjectured to be generated
by the great accumulation of water on the eastern coast of
America between the tropics by the trade winds which con-
stantly blow there. "It is known that a large piece of water
ten miles broad and generally only three feet deep has by
a strong wind had its waters driven to one side and sus-
tained so as to become six feet deep, while the windward side
was laid dry. This may give some idea of the quantity
heaped on the American coast, and the reason of its running
down in a strong current through the islands into the bay
of Mexico, and from thence issuing through the Gulf of
Florida, and proceeding along the coast to the banks of
Newfoundland, where it turns off towards and runs down
through the Western Islands."

Franklin took constant thermometrical observations upon
crossing the stream, and in his letter to David Le Roy,
August, 1785, thoroughly defined the theory of the stream
and the advantages of a knowledge of it to the mariner.

Among his practical suggestions with regard to the secu-
rity of ships at sea, it should be remembered that he first

1 To Sir John Pringle, May 10, 1768.

2 To Peter Franklin, May 7, 1760.

8 To Miss Mary Stevenson, August IO, 1761.
* To Miss Mary Stevenson, September 13, 1760.

6 To David Le Roy, August, 1785. The American Philosophical Society,
December 2, 1785.

VOL. I — G

82 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

suggested the use of water-tight compartments, now univer-
sally in use in the larger vessels of the navy and of passenger
traffic, and that he invented the double and triple ship
wrought with wheels, although Sir John Dalrymple in his
"Memoirs" (Appendix, page 7) gives the credit to the
inventor of the carronade.1

The last invention in which Franklin was interested was
Fitch's steamboat, and Fitch, when ready for a trial of his
new invention, wrote to Franklin (October 12, 1785), "Noth-
ing would give me more secret pleasure than to make an
essay under your patronage."

It was at one time Franklin's belief that the longer voy-
ages of vessels sailing westward across the Atlantic could be
accounted for by the diurnal motion of the earth, and he
exploited this theory in a letter to Cadwallader Golden. It
is also referred to in the more elaborate paper upon "Mari-
time Observations" sent to David Le Roy. After a few
years Franklin realized that he was entirely at fault in this
regard. Jonathan Williams wrote to him asking permission
to print the latter paper in the transactions of the American
Academy of Arts and Sciences. He replied: "It will not be
proper to present that nautical piece to your Academy, it
being already in the possession of the Philosophical Society
here who have ordered it to be printed in their Memoirs and
it is now in the Press. It may however be read there if you
think it will be agreeable ; only I would have the part struck
out relating to the expediting and retarding the voyages be-
tween North America and England by the diurnal motion
being on consideration convinced that its effect is equal both

1 Professor Anderson, of Glasgow University, in a letter to Franklin (Feb-
ruary 20, 1788), protests against this statement in Dalrymple's " Memoirs."

PHILOSOPHICAL WORKS 83

ways." * I have therefore omitted the letter of unknown date
addressed to Cadwallader Golden (printed in Sparks, Vol. VI,
p. 74, and Bigelow, Vol. II, p. 14) and the paragraph relat-
ing to this mistaken theory in the "Maritime Observations."

In 1746 Franklin purchased three hundred acres of land
near Burlington, New Jersey, and set about improving it in
the best and speediest manner. His experiments in the
culture of grass in meadows, and his inquiries respecting
the mode of planting hedges, were communicated in letters
to Jared Eliot, grandson of "Apostle" Eliot, and author of
"An Essay on Field Husbandry in New England."

His sagacity and clearness of vision are as evident here as in
the greater things of his life. Eighty acres of his land were
deep meadow. It had been ditched and planted with Indian
corn, of which it produced above sixty bushels per acre.
How did Franklin proceed? "I first scoured up my ditches
and drains, and took off all the weeds ; then I ploughed it, and
sowed it with oats in the last of May. In July I mowed them
down, together with the weeds, which grew plentifully among
them, and they made good fodder. Immediately ploughed
it again, and kept harrowing till there was an appearance of
rain; and on the 23d of August, I sowed near thirty acres
with red clover and herd grass, allowing six quarts of herd
grass and four pounds of red clover to an acre in most parts
of it ; in other parts four quarts herd grass and three pounds
red clover. The red clover came up in four days, and the
herd grass in six days ; and I now find, that, where I allowed
the most seed, it protects itself the better against the frost.
I also sowed an acre with twelve pound of red clover and it

1 To Jonathan Williams, Philadelphia, January 19, 1786. Letter in pos-
session of Louis A. Biddle, Esq.

84 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

does well; I sowed an acre more with two bushels of rye-
grass seed and five pound of red clover; the rye-grass seed
failed, and the red clover heaves out much for want of being
thicker. However in March next I intend to throw in six
pounds more of red clover as the ground is open and loose.
As these grasses are represented not durable, I have sown
two bushels of the sweeping of hay lofts (where the best hay
was used), well riddled, per acre, supposing that the spear-
grass and white clover seed would be more equally scattered
when the other shall fail. What surprised me was to find,
that the herd-grass, whose roots are small and spread near
the surface, should be less affected by the frost than the red
clover whose roots I measured in the last of October, and
found that many of their tap roots penetrated five inches, and
from its sides threw out near thirty horizontal roots, some
of which were six inches long and branched. From the
figure of this root, I flattered myself that it would endure the
heaving of the frost ; but I now see, that wherever it is thin
sown it is generally hove so far out as that but a few of the
horizontal and a small part of the tap roots remain covered
and I fear will not recover. Take the whole together it is
well matted and looks like a green corn field." *

Franklin carried on correspondence with many distin-
guished botanists. He secured for John Bartram his ap-
pointment as American botanist to George III. He sent
him rare seeds from Europe, and when in America rendered
the same service to Buffon for the Jardin des Plantes. He
was the first to introduce rhubarb into America.3 It is also
said that the introduction of the yellow willow was due to

1 To Jared Eliot, of unknown date, circa 1749.

2 To John Bartram, August 22, 1772.

PHILOSOPHICAL WORKS 85

him. The story is that a basket in which some foreign com-
modity had been imported, having been thrown into a creek,
was observed by Franklin to be putting forth sprouts, sev-
eral of which he caused to be planted on the ground now
occupied by the Philadelphia Custom House. They took
root, and proved to be the yellow willow.1

He urged the adoption of plaster of Paris as a fertilizer,
and as an object lesson to the Pennsylvanian farmers wrote
with plaster in a field on the high road, in large letters, "Tins
HAS BEEN PLASTERED." The white letters quickly vanished
but soon reappeared in emerald, showing in brilliant con-
trast to the grass of the general surface.2

Franklin was able to assist European scholars in their
studies of the native languages of America and the ethnology
and archaeology of the country. His letter to Court de
Gobelin (May 7, 1781) shows his understanding of the dif-
ferentiation of the native linguistic stocks; and by M. de
Gebelin, one of the first of the illustrious line of Ameri-
canistes in France, he was treated as a "fellow- worker,"
and consulted frequently while the nine volumes of "Le
Monde primitif" were going through the press.

George Croghan sent to him a box of what he supposed
to be elephants' tusks and grinders found near the Ohio
River. Franklin's letter of acknowledgment and thanks
is worthy of consideration, for the modern character of his
views is surprising. He found the tusks extremely curious
on many accounts. He could not believe them to belong to
elephants, for the grinders were "full of knobs, like the
grinders of a carnivorous animal; while those of the ele-
phant, who eats only vegetables, are almost smooth. But

1 Watson's "Annals of Philadelphia," Vol. II, p. 487.

2 Chaptal's " Agricultural Chemistry," p. 73.

86 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

then," he added, "we know of no other animal with tusks
like an elephant, to whom such grinders might belong."
It was remarkable to him that elephants now inhabit nat-
urally only hot countries where there is no winter, and yet
these remains were found in a winter country. He remem-
bered, also, that similar tusks were found in Siberia in great
quantities when their rivers overflow and wash away the
earth, though Siberia is still more a wintry country than that
on the Ohio. From which he inferred that "the earth had
anciently been in another position, and the climates differ-
ently placed from what they are at present." The historical
interest of this letter becomes apparent when it is remembered
that it was written thirty years before Thomas Jefferson read
before The American Philosophical Society his paper upon
the fossilized bones of some large quadruped of the sloth
family, an event which is commonly taken to mark the be-
ginning of the study of vertebrate palaeontology in America.
Moreover, this discussion of the "elephant question" was
fifty-eight years before Cuvier had given the name of mas-
todon to the animal whose tusks and grinders were so puz-
zling to Franklin. The foremost living palaeontologist of
America, Professor William B. Scott, of Princeton, says of
this letter: "Franklin's opinions are nearer to our present
beliefs than were Jefferson's, written nearly forty years later.
Of course, we now know that Franklin was mistaken in sup-
posing that such bones were found only in what is now
Kentucky and in Peru, and his comparison of the teeth of
the mastodon with the 'grinders of a carnivorous animal'
is not very happy, but the inferences are remarkably sound,
when we consider the state of geological knowledge in 1767." !

1 See Franklin to Croghan, August 5, 1767.

PHILOSOPHICAL WORKS 87

We now come to the really great achievements of Franklin
in science. In the study of electricity he was a pioneer. He
was a man of the frontier and greatly widened the bounda-
ries of knowledge. It was in 1746 that Peter Collinson sent
a Leyden vial to Philadelphia as a present to the Library
Company. The first electrical experiments Franklin had
ever witnessed had been performed by Dr. Spence, a Scotch-
man, in Boston, a few months before. His curiosity had
been keenly aroused, and he now proceeded with eagerness to
repeat in Philadelphia the experiments which had so sur-
prised and interested him. Speaking of them in the Auto-
biography, he says: "My house was continually full for
some time with persons who came to see these new wonders.
To divide a little this incumbrance among my friends, I
caused a number of similar tubes to be blown at our glass
house, with which they furnished themselves, so that we had
at length several performers. Among these the principal was
Mr. Kinnersley an ingenious neighbor, who, being out of
business, I encouraged to undertake showing the experiments
for money, and drew up for him two lectures in which the
experiments were rang'd in such order and accompanied
with explanations in such method as that the foregoing should
assist in comprehending the following. He procured an ele-
gant apparatus for this purpose, in which all the little ma-
chines that I had roughly made for myself were neatly formed
by instrument makers."

Concerning these experiments Franklin wrote letters to
Collinson, thinking it right that he should be informed of
their success in using the tube he had presented to them.
These are the letters that Collinson saw fit to publish, and
which at once carried Franklin's name across the continent

88 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

of Europe. In the first letter (July u, 1747), he wrote:
"We rub our tubes with buckskin and observe always to
keep the same side to the tube and never to sully the tube
by handling; thus they work readily and easily, without the
least fatigue, especially if kept in tight pasteboard cases,
lined with flannel and fitting close to the tube." The tubes,
he says, were made of green glass, twenty-seven or thirty
inches long, "as big as can be grasped." Parts of several
machines are known which are reputed to have belonged to
Franklin, but the precise form of the complete apparatus
used by him appears to be in doubt. Professor George
Barker says: "Three or four quite similar frames are in ex-
istence, all provided with multiplying wheels for giving rota-
tion to the electric used, which was mounted upon an axis
placed above the wheel. One of these frames is in posses-
sion of the Franklin Institute, another is owned by the Uni-
versity of Pennsylvania, and a third is in the physical cabinet
of the College of New Jersey, at Princeton. In only the
first of these, however, is the electrical portion preserved.
The electric is a glass globe, having a leather cushion for its
rubber, and provided with a curved rod for the collector.
Moreover, these frames or stands all resemble very closely
that which is described and figured as 'the cylindrical ma-
chine as constructed by Franklin' in Snow Harris's 'Fric-
tional Electricity.'"1

Among the Franklin relics long preserved at Champlost,
the home of George Fox, were several pieces of electrical

1 Professor George F. Barker, " Electrical Progress since 1 743," in the Pro-
ceedings of The American Philosophical Society, Philadelphia, 1894, p. 107.
The work to which Professor Barker refers is " A Treatise on Frictional Elec-
tricity in Theory and Practice, by Sir William Snow Harris, F.R.S., London,
1867," p. 104.

PHILOSOPHICAL WORKS 89

apparatus which, in 1879, were presented by Miss Fox to the
University of Pennsylvania. One of them was the "prime
conductor," or collector, of an electrical machine, and could
have been used only with a machine provided with a plate
electric. The earliest electrical machine was made in 1672
by Von Guericke, who performed the Magdeburg experi-
ments. The electric consisted of a globe of sulphur, mounted
on a horizontal axis and rubbed with the hand. Hawksbee
replaced the sulphur globe by one of glass. Franklin
thus speaks of his electrical machine: "Our spheres are
fixed on iron axes which pass through them. At one end of
the axis there is a small handle with which you turn the
sphere like a common grindstone. This we find very com-
modious, as the machine takes up but little room, is portable
and may be enclosed in a tight box when not in use. 'Tis
true the sphere does not turn so swift as when the great wheel
is used; but swiftness we think of little importance, since a
few turns will charge the vial sufficiently." The credit of
the contrivance of this machine Franklin gives to Philip
Syng, a member of the Junto.

One year's experimentation with the newly contrived ap-
paratus and Franklin had mastered the theory and practice
of electrical science. In his first letter to Collinson (July n,
1747) he describes an experiment showing "the wonderful
effect of pointed bodies both in drawing off and throwing off
the electrical fire." This letter is of the first importance in
the history of science, for it propounds his new theory of
electricity. He electrified a cannon ball so that it repelled a
cork. When the point of a long, slender bodkin was brought
within six or eight inches distance, the repulsion disappeared.
A blunt body, however, had to be brought near enough for a

90 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

spark to pass before the same effect was produced. "To
prove that the electrical fire is drawn off by the point, if you
take the blade of the bodkin out of the wooden handle, and
fix it in a stick of sealing-wax and then present it at the dis-
tance aforesaid, or if you bring it very near, no such effect
follows; but sliding one finger along the wax till you touch
the blade, and the ball flies to the shot immediately. If you
present the point in the dark, you will see, sometimes at a
foot distance and more, a light gather upon it, like that of a
fire- fly, or glow-worm; the less sharp the point, the nearer
you must bring it to observe the light; and, at whatever
distance you see the light, you may draw off the electrical
fire, and destroy the repellency."

By laying a long sharp needle upon the shot, Thomas Hop-
kinson and Franklin showed "that points will throw off as
well as draw off the electrical fire." Continuing his experi-
ments, he found that the repellency between the cork ball
and the shot is likewise destroyed: "i, by sifting fine sand
on it; this does it gradually; 2, by breathing on it; 3, by
making a smoke about it from burning wood ; 4, by candle
light, even though the candle is at a foot distance : these do
it suddenly. The light of a bright coal from a wood fire;
and the light of red hot iron do it likewise; but not at so
great a distance. Smoke, from dry rosin dropped on hot
iron, does not destroy the repellency ; but is attracted by both
shot and cork ball, forming proportionable atmospheres round
them, making them look beautifully, somewhat like some of
the figures in Burnet's or Whiston's 'Theory of the Earth.'
N. B. This experiment should be made in a closet, where the
air is very still or it will be apt to fail.

"The light of the sun thrown strongly on both cork and

PHILOSOPHICAL WORKS 91

shot by a looking-glass for a long time together, does not
impair the repellency in the least. This difference between
firelight and sunlight is another thing that seems new and
extraordinary to us." He was greatly puzzled and thought
long and deeply over this "new and extraordinary differ-
ence." In a footnote he offered an explanation which shows
that Franklin was the discoverer of the action of flames as
well as of the discharging properties of red-hot iron: "This
different effect probably did not arise from any difference in
the light, but rather from the particles separated from the
candle, being first attracted and then repelled, carrying off
the electric matter with them; and from the rarefying the
air, between the glowing coal or red hot iron and the elec-
trized shot, through which rarefied air the electric fluid could
more readily pass." No other mind as acute as Franklin's
existed in the world at that time, and the discovery seems to
have been forgotten for one hundred and twenty-six years,
when it was rediscovered by Guthrie in 1873. l

Professor Schuster calls attention to the experiment in-
tended to try the action of sunlight, and says, "Had Franklin
used a clean piece of zinc instead of iron shot he might have
anticipated Hertz's discovery of the action of strong light
on the discharge of gases."

He had now learned that the electricity from a highly
charged conductor could be dissipated by a sharp point or
neutralized if the point was connected with earth or brought
near the conductor so as to be electrified by induction. His
next discovery was that if the person rubbing the electric

1 Arthur Schuster, " On some Remarkable Passages in the Writings of
Benjamin Franklin." Manchester, 1895. See also, Guthrie, Philosophical
Magazine, XLVI, p. 257.

92 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

tube stood upon wax, and the person drawing the fire also
stood upon wax, a stronger spark would pass between them
than between either of them and the earth; and that after
such strong spark neither of them would discover any elec-
tricity, though each had appeared electrified before. He
had thus conceived the idea of positive and negative electri-
fication: "Hence have arisen some new terms among us;
we say B (and bodies like circumstanced) is electrized posi-
tively; A negatively.1 Or rather B is electrized plus; A
minus. And we daily in our experiments electrize bodies plus
or minus, as we think proper. To electrize plus or minus, no
more needs to be known than this, that the parts of the tube
or sphere that are rubbed, do, in the instant of the friction,
attract the electrical fire, and therefore take it from the thing
rubbing; the same parts immediately, as the friction upon
them ceases, are disposed to give the fire they have received
to any body that has less. Thus you may circulate it, as
Mr. Watson has shown; you may also accumulate or sub-
tract it, upon or from any body, as you connect that body
with the rubber, or with the receiver, the communication
with the common stock being cut off." Electricity, there-
fore, was regarded by Franklin as a fluid, a certain amount
of which was possessed by everything in its normal state.
By appropriate means some of the fluid could be drawn away
from one body and given to another. The former is then
electrified negatively, the latter positively. The electric fluid,
he conceived, repelled itself and attracted matter. The
single-fluid theory was completed when the supposition was
added that matter when devoid of electricity is self-repulsive.

1 A represents the one who stands on the cake of resin and rubs the elec-
tric tube; B, the one who takes the charge from the tube.

PHILOSOPHICAL WORKS 93

In experimenting with Muschenbroek's "wonderful
bottle," the Leyden jar (which Franklin improved by
substituting granulated lead for the water which had been
used for the interior armatures), he saw that "at the same
time that the wire and the top [the inner armature] is elec-
trized positively or plus, the bottom of the bottle [outer
armature] is electrized negatively or minus in exact propor-
tion; that is, whatever quantity of electrical fire is thrown
in at the top, an equal quantity goes out of the bottom. . . .
Again, when the bottle is electrized, but little of the electrical
fire can be drawn out from the top, by touching the wire,
unless an equal quantity can at the same time get in at the
bottom. ... So wonderfully are these two states of elec-
tricity, the plus and the minus combined and balanced in
this miraculous bottle! situated and related to each other
in a manner that I can by no means comprehend! If it
were possible that a bottle should in one part contain a
quantity of air strongly compressed, and in another part a
perfect vacuum, we know the equilibrium would be instantly
restored within. But here we have a bottle containing at
the same time a plenum of electrical fire, and a vacuum of the
same fire; and yet the equilibrium cannot be restored be-
tween them, but by a communication without! though the
plenum presses violently to expand, and the hungry vacuum
seems to attract as violently in order to be filled." *

He tried numerous experiments with these jars or "phials"
as they were called. He charged them by cascade, "that is,
by insulating all the jars except the last, connecting the outer
armature of the first with the inner armature of the second,
and so on throughout the series . . . and he knew too that

1 To Peter Collinson, September I, 1747.

94 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

by this method the extent to which each jar could be charged
from a given source varied inversely as the number of jars"
(Garnett). He discharged the phial by alternate contacts;
he placed it upon an insulating stand, and found that it
might be held by the hook without discharging it. "When
we use the terms of charging and discharging the phial,
it is in compliance with custom, and for want of others
more suitable. Since we are of opinion that there is really
no more electrical fire in the phial after what is called its
charging than before, nor less after its discharging; except-
ing only the small spark that might be given to and taken
from the non-electric matter, if separated from the bottle,
which spark may not be equal to a five-hundredth part of
what is called the explosion." l

"The phial will not suffer what is called a charging unless
as much fire can go out of it one way as is thrown in by
another." l

"When a bottle is charged in the common way its inside
and outside surfaces stand ready, the one to give fire by
the hook, the other to receive it by the coating; the one is
full and ready to throw out, the other empty and extremely
hungry; yet, as the first will not give out unless the other
can at the same instant receive in, so neither will the latter
receive in, unless the first can at the same instant give out.
When both can be done at once, it is done with inconceiv-
able quickness and violence." *

He was the first to prove that the phenomena of con-
densation have their seat in the dielectric, and not in the
metallic coatings. "The whole force of the bottle and
power of giving a shock," he says, "is in the glass itself;

1 To Peter Collinson, Philadelphia, 1748.

PHILOSOPHICAL WORKS 95

the non-electrics in contact with the two surfaces, serving
only to give and receive to and from the several parts of the
glass; that is, to give on one side and take away from the
other." After performing many interesting and convincing
experiments, graphically described in his letter to Collinson
(Philadelphia, 1748), he continues: "It is amazing to ob-
serve in how small a portion of glass a great electrical force
may lie. A thin glass bubble, about an inch diameter,
weighing only six grains, being half filled with water, partly
gilt on the outside, and furnished with a wire hook, gives,
when electrified, as great a shock as a man can well bear.
As the glass is thickest near the orifice, I suppose the lower
half, which, being gilt, was electrified and gave the shock,
did not exceed two grains; for it appeared, when broken,
much thinner than the upper half. . . . And allowing that
there is no more electrical fire in a bottle after charging than
before, how great must be the quantity in this small por-
tion of glass ! It seems as if it were of its very substance
and essence. Perhaps if that due quantity of electrical
fire so obstinately retained by glass, could be separated
from it, it would no longer be glass; it might lose its trans-
parency, or its brittleness, or its elasticity. Experiments
may possibly be invented hereafter to discover this."

Thus in a twelvemonth of ingenious experiments and
close observation Franklin had demonstrated the electrical
condition of the Leyden jar, dismissed the Dufay hypothesis
of vitreous and resinous electricity, and established his single-
fluid theory. He conceived that there is but one electric
fluid, the positive, while the part of the other is taken by
ordinary matter, the particles of which are supposed to
repel each other and attract the positive fluid. "Matter

96 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

when unelectrified is supposed to be associated with just so
much of the electric fluid that the attraction of the matter
on a portion of the electric fluid outside is just sufficient
to counteract the repulsion exerted on the same fluid by the
electric fluid associated with the matter " (J. J. Thomson).
Nowhere is the antique proverb vestigia nulla retrorsum so
true as in the history of science : —

" Science moves, but slowly, slowly, creeping on from point to point."

But the history of electrical theory is an extraordinary
exception. After a hundred and fifty years the world is
returning at the present moment to the amazing generaliza-
tion made by Franklin. "We shall I am sure be struck,"
says Professor J. J. Thomson in one of the most recent
contributions to the literature of electricity, "by the simi-
larity between some of the views which we are led to take
by the results of the most recent researches, with those
enunciated by Franklin in the very infancy of the subject." *
And Dr. William Garnett says of the statements in Franklin's
first letters to Collinson, "They are perfectly consistent
with the views held by Cavendish and by Clerk Maxwell,
and though the phraseology is not that of modern text-
books, the statements themselves can hardly be improved
upon to-day." 2

The second striking conclusion at which Franklin arrived
was the identity of electricity and lightning. To illustrate
the action of a lightning conductor on a thunder-cloud
he took a pair of large brass scales, of two or more feet
beam, the cords of the scales being silk, and suspended the

1 " Electricity and Matter, by J. J. Thomson. Constable & Co., 1904." p. 6.
8 " Heroes of Science, by William Garnett. London [1885]." p. 79.

PHILOSOPHICAL WORKS 97

beam by a twisted packthread from the ceiling. Upon
the floor he set a silversmith's iron punch in such a place
as that the scales might pass over it in making their circle.
He electrified one scale. "As they move round you see
that one scale draw nigher to the floor, and dip more when
it comes over the punch; and if that be placed at a proper
distance, the scale will snap and discharge its fire into it.
But if a needle be stuck on the end of the punch, its point
upward, the scale instead of drawing nigh to the punch, and
snapping, discharges its fire silently through the point, and
rises higher from the punch. . . . Now if the fire of elec-
tricity, and that of lightning be the same as I have en-
deavoured to show at large in a former paper, these scales
may represent electrified clouds. . . . The horizontal mo-
tion of the scales over the floor may represent the motion
of the clouds over the earth; and the erect iron punch, a
hill or high building ; and then we see how electrified clouds
passing over hills or high buildings at too great a height
to strike, may be attracted lower till within their striking
distance. And lastly if a needle fixed on the punch with
its point upright, or even on the floor below the punch, will
draw the fire from the scale silently at a much greater than
the striking distance, and so prevent its descending toward
the punch; or if in its course it would have come nigh
enough to strike, yet being first deprived of its fire it cannot,
and the punch is thereby secured from the stroke." *

"To determine the question," he says, "whether the
clouds that contain lightning are electrified or not, I would
propose an experiment to be tried where it may be done
conveniently. On the top of some high tower or steeple,

1 To Peter Collinson, July 29, 1750.
VOL. i — H

93 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

place a kind of sentry box, big enough to contain a man
and an electrical stand. From the middle of the stand
let an iron rod rise and pass, bending, out of the door and
then upright twenty or thirty feet, pointed very sharp at
the end. If the electrical stand be kept clean and dry, a
man standing on it, when such clouds are passing low,
might be electrified and afford sparks, the rod drawing fire
to him from a cloud. If any danger to the man might be
apprehended (though I think there would be none) let
him stand on the floor of this box and now and then bring
near to the rod the loop of a wire that has one end fastened
to the leads, he holding it by a wax handle; so the sparks,
if the rod is electrified, will strike from the rod to the wire,
and not affect him."

M. Dalibard, who at the request of Buffon had made
a translation into French of Franklin's letters to Collinson,
placed in a garden at Marly-la- Ville, six leagues from Paris,
a pointed rod of iron forty feet high supported upon an
electrical stand. In the afternoon of the loth of May, 1752,
between two and three o'clock, a thunder-cloud passed
over it and sparks were drawn from it by the observers
with whom Dalibard had left directions how to proceed.
The same kind of commotions were perceived as in the
common electrical experiments.1

A week later (May 18) M. de Lor, sensible of the good
success of this experiment, resolved to repeat it at his house
in the Estrapade, at Paris. He raised a bar of iron ninety-
nine feet high placed upon a cake of resin two feet square

1 Letter of Abbe Maz6as to Stephen Hales, May 20, 1752; read at the
Royal Society, May 28, 1752; "New Experiments and Observations on Elec-
tricity," p. 107.

PHILOSOPHICAL WORKS 99

and three inches thick. Between four and five in the after-
noon a storm cloud having passed over the bar, where it
remained half an hour, he drew sparks from the bar like
those from the gun-barrel, when in the electrical experiments
the globe is only rubbed by the cushion, and they produced
the same noise, the same fire, and the same crackling. They
drew the strongest sparks at the distance of nine lines.
M. de Lor, master of experimental philosophy, had pre-
viously performed "the Philadelphian experiments" by
command of Louis XV, in the presence of the king at the
seat of the Due d'Ayen at St. Germain. His Majesty saw
them with great satisfaction and greatly applauded Franklin
and Collinson.

On the 2oth of July, 1752, John Canton, a Fellow of the
Royal Society, erected upon his house in Spital Square,
London, a tin tube between three and four feet in length
fixed to the top of a glass one of about eighteen inches.
To the upper end of the tin tube, which was not so high as
a stack of chimneys on the same house, he fastened three
needles with some wire, and to the lower end was soldered
a tin cover to keep the rain from the glass tube, which was
set upright in a block of wood. No electrification appeared
upon this apparatus during the storm, which arose about
five in the afternoon, until after the third thunder-clap, when
Canton, applying his knuckle to the edge of the cover, felt
and heard an electrical spark ; and approaching it a second
time received the spark at the distance of about half an
inch and saw it distinctly.

Further observations were made on the i2th of August
by another member of the Royal Society, Mr. Wilson, in a
garden at Chelmsford in Essex. He used an iron curtain

TOO THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

rod, one end of which he put into the neck of a glass vial,
and held this vial in his hand. To the other end of the
iron he fastened three needles with some silk. This vial
supporting the rod, he held in one hand, and drew snaps
from the rod with a finger of his other.

These experiments were communicated to the Royal
Society by William Watson, accompanied by the following
explanation:1 "After the communications which we have
received from several of our correspondents in different
parts of the continent acquainting us with the success of
their experiments last summer in endeavoring to extract
the electricity from the atmosphere during a thunder-storm,
in consequence of Mr. Franklin's hypothesis, it may be
thought extraordinary that no accounts have been yet laid
before you of our success here from the same experiments.
That no want of attention, therefore, may be attributed to
those here, who have been hitherto conversant in these
inquiries, I thought proper to apprize you, that, though sev-
eral members of the Royal Society, as well as myself, did,
upon the first advices from France, prepare and set up the
necessary apparatus for this purpose, we were defeated in
our expectations, from the uncommon coolness and damp-
ness of the air here, during the whole summer. We had
only at London one thunder-storm, namely, on July 20 ; and
then the thunder was accompanied with rain, so that, by
wetting the apparatus, the electricity was dissipated too
soon to be perceived upon touching those parts of the ap-
paratus which served to conduct it. This, I say, in general
prevented our verifying Mr. Franklin's hypothesis."

The famous kite experiment was made during the summer

1 Philosophical Transactions, XLVII, 1752.

PHILOSOPHICAL WORKS 101

of 1752, in Philadelphia. Franklin described it in a letter
to Peter Collinson, dated October 19, 1752, which was read
at the Royal Society, December 21, 1752, and printed in that
month in the Gentleman 's Magazine. It is unnecessary to
repeat the description, as it is one of the commonplaces
of science and will be found in its proper chronological
place in the "Works."

In September of that year he erected an iron rod to draw
the lightning down into his house, in order to make some
experiments on it. Another rod connected to the earth
he brought within six inches of it, and, attaching a small
bell to each rod, he suspended a little ball by a silk thread,
so that it could strike either bell when attracted to it. "I
found," he wrote to Collinson (September, 1753), "the bells
rang sometimes when there was no lightning or thunder,
but only a dark cloud over the rod; that sometimes, after a
flash of lightning, they would suddenly stop; and at other
times, when they had not rung before, they would, after a
flash, suddenly begin to ring; that the electricity was some-
times very faint, so that, when a small spark was obtained,
another could not be got for some time after ; at other times
the sparks would follow extremely quick, and once I had
a continual stream from bell to bell, the size of a crow-quill ;
even during the same gust there were considerable variations."

In the winter following he conceived an experiment to
try whether the clouds were electrified positively, or nega-
tively. He charged two vials, one with lightning from the
iron rod, the other an equal charge by the electric glass globe,
and suspended a cork ball by a fine silk thread from the
ceiling, so that it might play between the wires. He observed
the brisk play of the ball between them, and was convinced

102 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

that one bottle was electrized negatively. Subsequent
experiments modified somewhat his first conclusions, and
he learned that while in general the charge from the clouds
is negative it is sometimes positive.

The first thought of the lightning rod seems to have visited
Franklin in 1749. The purely speculative never held his
attention long, unless there appeared in it the possibility of
practical use. "It is of real use," he was wont to say, "to
know that China left in the air unsupported will fall and
break ; but how it comes to fall, and why it breaks, are mat-
ters of speculation. It is a pleasure indeed to know them,
but we can preserve our China without it."

To know the power of points he thought might possibly
be of some use to mankind, though we should never be
able to explain it. "May not the knowledge of this power of
points be of use to mankind, in preserving houses, churches,
ships, etc., from the stroke of lightning, by directing us to
fix, on the highest parts of those edifices, upright rods of
iron made sharp as a needle, and gilt to prevent rusting,
and from the foot of those rods a wire down the outside of
the building into the ground, or down round one of the
shrouds of a ship, and down her side till it reaches the water ?
Would not these pointed rods probably draw the electrical
fire silently out of a cloud before it came nigh enough to
strike, and thereby secure us from that most sudden and
terrible mischief?"1

The lightning rod was not immediately adopted. Frank-
lin's formal recommendation that pointed rods be placed

1 " Opinions and Conjectures concerning the Properties and Effects of the
Electrical Matter," etc., 1749, addressed to Peter Collinson, Philadelphia,
July 29, 1750.

PHILOSOPHICAL WORKS 103

on buildings to prevent their being struck by lightning was
made in 1753.*

In concluding a long letter to Mr. Kinnersley (February
20, 1762) he observed: "You seem to think highly of this
discovery, as do many others on our side of the water.
Here [London] it is very little regarded; so little, that,
though it is now seven or eight years since it was made
public, I have not heard of a single house as yet attempted
to be secured by it. It is true the mischiefs done by light-
ning are not so frequent here as with us; and those who
calculate chances may perhaps find that not one death (or
the destruction of one house) in a hundred thousand hap-
pens from that cause, and that therefore it is scarce worth
while to be at any expense to guard against it."

While in America many houses were guarded by light-
ning rods, and at least one correspondent, Mather Byles,
old and palsy-stricken, wrote that his life and that of his
daughters had been saved by Franklin's "points," yet in
England it was not until 1762 that Dr. Watson raised the
first one, and it was 1771 before conductors were placed
on the Royal Exchange. Upon the continent they were
adopted slowly. In 1769 St. Jacob's Church in Hamburg
was protected. It is true that in 1754 (June 15) Pastor
Prokop Diwisch had erected a lightning rod in Prenditz, in
the neighbourhood of Znaim in Moravia, but he was obliged
to remove it in 1756, because the peasants ascribed the
exceptional dryness of the season to his strange instrument.2

1 Letter to Peter Collinson, Philadelphia, September, 1753.

2 It has been claimed that Diwisch invented the lightning rod without any
knowledge of Franklin's experiments. " Nach der Wiener Zeitung ' Neue
Freie Presse ' befinden sich in der Bibliothek der Wiener elektrischen Ausstel-
lung die handschriftlichen Belege, dass der Pramonstratenser Ordens-

104 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

In like manner the Rev. Thomas Prince at the time of
the Lisbon earthquake asserted that "the more points of
iron erected round the earth to draw the electrical sub-
stance out of the air; the more the earth must needs be
charged with it. And therefore it seems worthy of con-
sideration whether any part of the earth being fuller of
this terrible substance may not be more exposed to more
shocking earthquakes. In Boston are more erected than
anywhere else in New England; and Boston seems to be
more dreadfully shaken. Oh ! there is no getting out of
the mighty Hand of God ! If we think to avoid it in the
Air we cannot in the Earth. Yea, it may grow more
fatal."

M. de Saussure wrote to Franklin that he had published
a short apologetic memoir in October, 1771, for the infor-
mation of some people who were terrified at a conductor
which he had erected at Geneva before the house he lived
in. It reassured everybody, "and I had the pleasure of
watching the electricity from the clouds during the whole
course of the last summer. Several persons even followed
this example, and raised conductors either upon their houses
or before them. M. de Voltaire was one of the first. He
does the same justice to your theory that he did to that of
the immortal Newton."1

priester Prokop Diwisch in Prenditz bei Znaim am 15, Juni, 1754, cine 22
Klafter hohe Wetterstange errichtet und diesen Blitzableiter unabhangig von
Franklin erfunden hat. Da Franklin seine Vorschlage fiber die Herableitung
des Blitzes schon 1750 machte und 1753 schon eine Theorie des Blitzableiters
gab scheint uns doch der Beweis fur die vollstandige Unabhangigkeit des
Diwisch von Franklin recht schwer zu fuhren zu sein." " Die Geschichte der
Physik," von Dr. Ferd. Rosenberger, Braunschweig, 1882, Vol. II, p. 316.
1 M. de Saussure to Franklin, Naples, February 23, 1773.

PHILOSOPHICAL WORKS 105

The alarm of provincial France was less easily quieted.
The youthful Robespierre had for his first case the defence
of a client who had sought to protect his property by the
lightning rod. It was to the young advocate, destined to
strange and sinister history, his "great first cause, least
understood," and he wrote to Franklin to offer him hum-
bly but proudly his printed argument.

The letter has but recently been discovered. It will be
found in its chronological place in the correspondence, but I
may add a translation of it at this point.

"ARRAS, October i. 1783

"SiR: — A judgment rendered by the e*cheVins of St. Omer,
prohibiting the use of lightning rods, has afforded me the
opportunity of pleading before the Council of Artois the
cause of a sublime discovery for which mankind is indebted
to you. The desire to aid in uprooting the prejudices
opposed to its progress in our province led me to have
printed the argument which I made in this matter. I ven-
ture to hope, Sir, that you will deign to receive kindly a copy
of this work, the object of which was to induce my fellow-
citizens to accept one of your benefactions; happy to have
been able to be of service to my region in determining its
highest magistrates to receive this important discovery,
happier still if I can add to this advantage the honour of
securing the patronage of a man whose least merit is to be
the most illustrious savant of the world. I have the honour
to be with respect, Sir,

"Your very humble and very obedient servant,

"DE ROBESPIERRE,
"Advocate to the Council oj Artois"

io6 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

The Due de Villequier wrote to Franklin (September 23,
1779) for information, as he wished to place paratonnerres
upon his house in Paris and his chateau in Picardy. Not
that he himself feared the lightning flash, or the all-dreaded
thunder-stone, but he was anxious to take every precaution
to insure the safety of his mother-in-law !

A powder magazine having been exploded by lightning
at Brescia in Italy, the British Board of Ordnance, through
Major Dawson, their engineer, consulted Franklin to learn
how the arsenals at Purfleet might be protected from that
danger. Franklin visited the magazines on the 28th of
May, 1772, and submitted the following day a careful report
and recommendation. That they might be still better au-
thorized to proceed, the board requested the Royal Society
to give their opinion.

The society appointed a committee of five to make an
examination and prepare a report. They were Messrs.
Cavendish, Watson, Robertson, Wilson, and Franklin.
Watson and Cavendish left to Franklin the nomination of
the day of inquiry and the drawing of the report. It was
prepared (August 21, 1772) and presented to the president
and council of the Royal Society. Benjamin Wilson dis-
sented from that part of the report which related to pointed
conductors. He believed that they were less safe than blunt
conductors, that they solicited the lightning, and, "if there-
fore we invite the lightning, while we are ignorant what
the quantity or the effects of it may be, we may be promoting
the very mischiefs we mean to prevent." In defence of his
contention he addressed a letter to Lord Rockingham, which
appeared in the Philosophical Transactions, Vol. LIV,
p. 247. When the commission paid no attention to his dis-

PHILOSOPHICAL WORKS 107

sent he published two pamphlets, as Franklin says, "re-
flecting on the Royal Society, the committee and myself,
with some asperity." With the outbreak of the war the
scientific feud became a political one. George III ordered
blunt conductors to be substituted for the pointed ends on
Kew Palace. He even sought to compel Sir John Pringle
to give an opinion in favour of the change. That estimable
scholar replied that "the laws of nature were not changeable
at royal pleasure." It was then "intimated to him by the
King's authority that a President of the Royal Society en-
tertaining such an opinion ought to resign." Not only was
he obliged to resign the presidency, but he was deprived of
his position as physician to the queen, and banished from
the fickle favour of the court. Franklin writing to an un-
known correspondent said : "The King's changing his pointed
conductors for blunt is a matter of small importance to me.
If I had a wish about it, it would be that he had rejected
them altogether as ineffectual. For it is only since he thought
himself and family safe from the thunder of Heaven, that
he dared to use his own thunder in destroying his innocent
subjects." l

Dr. Ingenhousz, who was at that time in England, made
angry rejoinder to Wilson, but Franklin declined to be
drawn into an acrimonious discussion, and said laughingly
to a friend, "He seems as much heated about this one
point, as the Jansenists and Molinists were about the
five."

The town repeated with amusement many merry epigrams
at the expense of the king and his policy. The best of these
has become classical: —

1 To a friend, Passy, October 4, 1777.

io8 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

" While you, great George, for knowledge hunt
And sharp conductors change for blunt

The Empire's out of joint.
Franklin another course pursues
And all your thunder heedless views

By keeping to the point." 1

One of Franklin's experiments puzzled him greatly. As
he pondered over it he guessed at the correct explanation,
and later scientists deduced from it one of electricity's great-
est laws. He described it in a letter to Dr. John Lining,
March 1 8, 1755: "I electrified a silver pint can, on an elec-
tric stand, and then lowered into it a cork ball, of about an
inch diameter, hanging by a silk string, till the cork touched
the bottom of the can. The cork was not attracted to the
inside of the can, as it would have been to the outside ; and,
though it touched the bottom, yet, when drawn out, it was
not found to be electrified by that touch, as it would have
been by touching the outside. The fact is singular. You
require the reason: I do not know it. Perhaps you may
discover it, and then you will be so good as to communicate
it to me. I find a frank acknowledgement of one's igno-
rance is not only the easiest way to get rid of a difficulty
but the likeliest way to obtain information, and therefore
I practise it ; I think it an honest policy." The experiment
was important. After some thought Franklin conjectured,
with entire correctness, that the mutual repulsion of the
inner opposite sides of the electrical can may prevent the
accumulating an electric atmosphere upon them, and
occasion it to stand chiefly on the outside. He was not

1 Another popular couplet of the same kind reads : —

" He with a kite drew lightning from the sky,
And like a kite he pecked King George's eye."

PHILOSOPHICAL WORKS 109

entirely satisfied, and recommended it to the further exami-
nation of the curious. The experiment was repeated by
Henry Cavendish, that strange, lonely character whose
heart was colder than the freezing mixtures of his laboratory,
and who was the greatest experimental philosopher that
England has produced. He established the law that elec-
trical repulsion varies inversely as the square of the distance
between the charges.

Franklin performed some interesting experiments on the
physiological action of the electric discharge. An account
of them he sent to the Royal Society. The letter describ-
ing his experiments on fowls is no longer extant, but an
abstract of it is to be found in "An Account of Mr. Benjamin
Franklin's Treatise, lately published, entitled 'Experiments
and Observations on Electricity, made at Philadelphia in
America,' by William Watson, F.R.S." Dr. Watson (after-
ward Sir William Watson) read this paper before the Royal
Society, June 6, 1751. He said "he made first several ex-
periments on fowls, and found, that two large thin glass
jars, gilt, holding each about six gallons, . . . were suffi-
cient, when fully charged, to kill common hens outright;
but the turkeys, though thrown into violent convulsions,
and then, lying as dead for some minutes, would recover
in less than a quarter of an hour. However, having added
three other such to the former two, though not fully
charged, he killed a turkey of about ten pounds' weight,
and believes that they would have killed a much larger.
He conceited, as himself says, that the birds killed in this
manner eat uncommonly tender. In making these ex-
periments, he found, that a man could, without great detri-
ment, bear a much greater shock than he imagined; for he

I io THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

inadvertently received the stroke of two of these jars through
his arms and body, when they were very near fully charged.
It seemed to him a universal blow throughout the body
from head to foot, and was followed by a violent, quick
trembling in the trunk, which went gradually off in a few
seconds. It was some minutes before he could recollect
his thoughts, so as to know what was the matter; for he
did not see the flash, though his eye was on the spot of the
prime conductor, from whence it struck the back of his
hand; nor did he hear the crack, though the bystanders
said it was a loud one ; nor did he particularly feel the stroke
on his hand, though he afterwards found it had raised a
swelling there of the bigness of half a swan-shot or pistol-
bullet. His arms and the back of his neck felt somewhat
numbed the remainder of the evening, and his breast
was sore for a week after, as if it had been bruised. From
this experiment may be seen the danger, even under the
greatest caution, to the operator, when making these ex-
periments with large jars; for it is not to be doubted, but
that several of these fully charged would as certainly, by
increasing them in proportion to the size, kill a man, as they
before did the turkey." *

Franklin believed that electricity might be used to render
meat tender: "It has been observed that lightning, by
rarefying and reducing into vapor the moisture contained
in solid wood, in an oak, for instance, has forcibly separ-

1 Franklin was much distressed upon learning of the death of Professor
Richmann at St. Petersburg, July 26, 1753, while repeating the kite experi-
ment for bringing lightning from the clouds. See Philosophical Transactions,
Vol. XLVIII, p. 765; and Vol. XLIX, p. 61.

For an account of a second great stroke received by Franklin, see letter to
Ingenhousz, April 29, 1785. — ED.

PHILOSOPHICAL WORKS in

ated its fibres, and broken it into small splinters; that, by
penetrating intimately the hardest metals, as iron, it has
separated the parts in an instant, so as to convert a perfect
solid into a state of fluidity; it is not then improbable, that
the same subtile matter, passing through the bodies of
animals with rapidity, should possess sufficient force to
produce an effect nearly similar. The flesh of animals,
freshly killed in the usual manner is firm, hard, and not
in a very eatable state, because the particles adhere too
forcibly to each other. At a certain period, the cohesion
is weakened, and in its progress towards putrefaction, which
tends to produce a total separation, the flesh becomes what
we call tender, or is in that state most proper to be used
as our food. It has frequently been remarked, that animals
killed by lightning putrefy immediately. This cannot be
invariably the case, since a quantity of lightning, sufficient
to kill, may not be sufficient to tear and divide the fibres
and particles of flesh, and reduce them to that tender state,
which is the prelude to putrefaction."

He continued to instruct his correspondents how to con-
duct the process of killing by electricity: "Having prepared
a battery of six large glass jars (each from twenty to twenty-
four pints) as for the Leyden experiment, and having estab-
lished a communication as usual, from the interior surface
of each with the prime conductor, and having given them a
full charge, a chain which communicates with the exterior of
the jars must be wrapped round the thighs of the fowl;
after which the operator, holding it by the wings, turned
back and made to touch behind, must raise it so high that
the head may receive the first shock from the prime con-
ductor. The animal dies instantly. Let the head be imme-

112 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

diately cut off to make it bleed, when it may be plucked
and dressed immediately. This quantity of electricity is
supposed sufficient for a turkey of ten pounds weight, and
perhaps for a lamb. Experience alone will inform us of
the requisite proportions for animals of different forms
and ages. ... As six jars, however, discharged at once,
are capable of giving a very violent shock, the operator
must be very circumspect lest he should happen to make the
experiment on his own flesh, instead of that of the fowl." *

The reader who will thoughtfully consider all of Franklin's
papers upon electricity in these volumes will be surprised at
the range of Franklin's observation of electrical phenomena.
I shall refer but to one more in this place. His masterly
paper upon the aurora borealis was read before the Academy
of Sciences at Paris, early in 1779. Extracts from it appeared
in Le Mercure de France, and the Abbe" Rozier asked per-
mission (August 21, 1779) to print it in Le Journal de Phy-
sique. He made the request, he said, in the name of every
physicist in France. Franklin believed the aurora to be
caused by the accumulation of electricity on the surface
of polar snows and its discharge to the equator through
the upper atmosphere.

The account of the electrical experiments made at Phila-
delphia which Franklin consigned to Collinson concluded
with the following merry description of the preparations
for a philosophical celebration of the conclusion of them
for the season. "Chagrined a little that we have been
hitherto able to produce nothing in this way of use to man-
kind, and the hot weather coming on, when electrical experi-

1 To Messrs. Dubourg and Dalibard, without date, but in answer to a letter
dated May i, 1773.

PHILOSOPHICAL WORKS 113

ments are not so agreeable, it is proposed to put an end to
them for this season, somewhat humorously, in a party of
pleasure, on the banks of Skuylkil. Spirits, at the same
time, are to be fired by a spark sent from side to side through
the river, without any other conductor than the water — an
experiment which we sometime since performed, to the
amazement of many. A turkey is to be killed for our dinner
by the electrical shock, and roasted by the electrical jack
before a fire kindled by the electrified bottle, when the healths
of all the famous electricians in England, Holland, France,
and Germany, are to be drunk in electrified bumpers under
the discharge of guns from the electrical battery." 1

The study of medicine was one of Franklin's chief interests,
and it is one of the least known. Many medical men were
among his most intimate companions and most valued
correspondents. It is only necessary to mention Sir John
Pringle, J. C. Lettsom, John Fothergill, Benjamin Rush,
Thomas Bond, Ingenhousz, Dubourg, Gastellier, and Guil-
lotin to realize how wide was his acquaintance with the pro-
fession.

In 1751 he promoted the founding of the Pennsylvania
Hospital. He was elected January 17, 1777, a member
of the Royal Medical Society of Paris. He was appointed
a commissioner to investigate the theories of Mesmer in
1784. In 1787 (July 16) he was appointed an honorary
member of the Medical Society of London. The leaders
of medical thought came to him in the attitude of pupils.

He drove in a post-chaise through Scotland, Switzerland,

1 " An electrified bumper is a small thin glass tumbler, near filled with wine,
and electrified as the bottle. This, when brought to the lips gives a shock,
if the party be close shaved, and does not breathe on the liquor."
VOL. I — I

114 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

Holland, and Germany, with Sir John Pringle, President of
the Royal Society, a pupil of the illustrious Boerhaave, and
the first physician who applied scientific principles practi-
cally in the prevention of dysentery and hospital fevers, and
so worked a reform in military medicine and sanitation.
He was in constant correspondence with Dr. Jan Ingen-
housz, of Vienna, the court physician to Maria Theresa and
to Joseph II, who sought his advice before inoculating the
young princes of the imperial family; and together they
travelled through England and part of France. His life
was written by John Coakley Lettsom, the most successful
English physician of his generation and founder of the
General Dispensary — the first in London. He exchanged
opinions upon pathology and therapeutics as well as poli-
tics and peace with Dr. Fothergill, of whom he said: "I can
hardly conceive that a better man has ever existed." In
France Vicq d'Azyr, physician to the queen, planned the
Royal Society of Medicine, and, at its inauguration in 1776,
became its perpetual secretary. Franklin was the first
foreign associate elected, and in 1780 Vicq d'Azyr wrote
to him: "The Royal Society recognizing the talents and bril-
liancy of the physicians of America, we wish to confer the
honour of correspondent upon some of them, and we judge
that that honour would be doubled by passing through
Franklin's hands, and therefore hope that he will present the
diplomas."

Dr. Barbeu Dubourg, one of the most skilful physicians
in Paris, a member of learned societies in four countries,
translated Franklin's works into French, and during a long
and affectionate friendship always addressed him with
reverence as "mon cher maitre." He wrote to Comte de

PHILOSOPHICAL WORKS 115

Vergennes, Minister of Foreign Affairs, "I flatter myself
that they [Franklin and his fellow-commissioners] honour
me with a singular confidence and I would rather die than
abuse it in any way."

Gastellier, the author of a celebrated article upon the
persistence of sensation after decollation by the guillotine,
eagerly desired the honour of dedicating to Franklin his
treatise upon "Specifics in Medicine," a work which was
crowned by the Royal Academy of Medicine. The Marquis
of Mirabeau interceded for him and begged Franklin to
accept the dedication.

Joseph Ignace Guillotin was closely associated with
Franklin, and consulted him about a project of emigration
to Ohio. Letters were frequent between them, and they
served together upon the commission that inquired into the
truth of mesmerism. His name was destined to be forever
linked, to the horror of himself, and of his family, to that
reaper of the revolution,

" Whose sheaves sleep sound
In dreamless garner underground."

At home Thomas Bond, John Bard, Thomas Cadwallader,
and Benjamin Rush begged him to accept the grateful
dedications of their medical works. I have already quoted
Franklin's letter to Rush requesting him to omit from his
essay, "Upon the Influence of Physical Causes on the Moral
Faculty," "that most extravagant encomium upon your
friend Franklin." Rush suppressed the "encomium," but
sent his publication into the world under the patronage of
that great name:

"To his Excellency, Benjamin Franklin, Esq., President
of the Supreme Executive Council of Pennsylvania, the

Il6 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

friend and benefactor of mankind, the following oration is
inscribed by his grateful friend and humble servant, the
Author."

A part of Dr. Rush's diary which for a long time has
been in the Ridgway Library, Philadelphia, has recently
been published in the Pennsylvania, Magazine of History
and Biography (January, 1905), and it contains some inter-
esting notes of Dr. Franklin's conversation. The distin-
guished physician naturally reported with most care the
comments of Franklin upon medicine. "1786 August. I
waited on the Doctor with a Dr. Minto. He said he be-
lieved that Tobacco would in a few years go out of use.
That, about 30 years ago, when he went to England,
Smoaking was universal in taverns, coffee-houses, and pri-
vate families, but that it was now generally laid aside, that
the use of Snuff, from being universal in France was become
unfashionable among genteel people no person of fashion
under 30 years of age now snuffed in France. He added
that Sir John Pringle and he had observed that tremors of
the hands were more frequent in France than elsewhere,
and probably from the excessive use of snuff. They once
saw in a company of 16 but two persons who had not these
tremors at a table in France. He said Sir John was cured
of a tremor by leaving off snuff. He concluded that there
was no great advantage in using tobacco in any way, for
that he had kept company with persons who used it all his
life, and no one had ever advised him to use it. The
Doctor in the 8ist year of his age declared he had never
snuffed, chewed, or smoked."

"Septem'r 23rd, He said he believed the Accounts of the
plague in Turkey were exaggerated. He once conversed

PHILOSOPHICAL WORKS 117

with a Dr. MacKensie who had resided 38 years at Con-
stantinople, who told him there were five plagues in that
town. The plague of the drugger-men or interpreters, who
spread false stories of the prevalence of the plague in order
to drive foreign ministers into the country, in order that
they might enjoy a little leisure. 2. The plague of debtors,
who when dunned, looked out of their windows, and told
their creditors not to come in for the plague is in their houses.
3. The plague of the Doctors, for as they are never paid for
their attendance on such patients as die, unless it be with
the plague they make most of fatal diseases the plague.
The doctor forgot the other two. He added that Dr. Mac-
Kensie upon hearing that 660 dead with the plague, were
carried out of one of the gates daily, had the curiosity to
stand by that gate for one whole day, and counted only 66."

"Sept. 22. Waited upon Dr. Franklin with Doctor
Thibou of Antigua. The Dr. said few but quacks ever
made money by physic, and that no bill drawn upon the
credulity of the people of London by quacks, was ever
protested. He ascribed the success of quacks partly to
patients extolling the efficacy of the remedies they took
from them, rather than confess their ignorance and credulity,
hence it was justly said, 'quacks were the greatest liars
in the world, except their patients.'

"November. Spend half an hour with Dr. in company
with the Rev'd. Mr. Bisset and Mr. Goldsborough. He
said Sir John Pringle once told him 92 fevers out of 100
cured themselves, 4 were cured by Art, and 4 proved fatal.
About the end of this month I saw him alone. He talked
of Climates; I borrowed some hints from the Conversation
for the essay on Climates."

Il8 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

Early in his correspondence Benjamin Gale, of Killing-
worth, an agriculturist, who was awarded by the Society of
Arts a medal for an improvement of the drill plough, asked
Franklin his opinion of the value of meadow saffron as a
cure for dropsy. Years later the English journals gave
wide currency to a tale that Franklin had discovered in
tobacco ashes a sovereign remedy for dropsy. His corre-
spondence abounds with references to this canard. John
Stewart, of London, in 1777, asked him for further infor-
mation concerning it, saying: "In one of our newspapers
of this week it is asserted that you had recommended the
use of tobacco ashes to the physicians at Paris in the cases
of ascites, an anasarca, an oedema, and every species of
hydropical complaint. That they in consequence had
made many experiments and that all of them had been
followed by a surprising and speedy cure. . . . What
proportion of these ashes goes to a dose and how often to
be taken in the twenty four hours?"

Dr. Galevan has a patient who is afflicted with dropsy.
His skill brings no relief, and he is anxious to know about
the use of tobacco ashes.

Dr. Santoux, of Bordeaux , wants to know about
the efficacy of ashes in the treatment of dropsy ; Cathallet
Cotiere, of St. Sulpice, and Roger Wilbraham, of Rue de
Richelieu, desire information on this point; and Serrier,
curd of Damvilliers , says he has a parishioner who
has had dropsy for twenty-eight years. Will tobacco ashes
cure him? Many such letters came to Franklin from all
parts of Europe, and I find one brief reply sent by him to
Dr. Daniel Nunez de Tavarez, an eminent physician of
Zwolle, Overyssel: —

PHILOSOPHICAL WORKS 119

" PARIS, January 4, 1778
" SIR.

" The account given in the newspapers of my having
furnished the Physicians with a receipt against the dropsy
is a mistake. I know nothing of it, nor did I ever hear
before that tobacco ashes had any such virtue. I thank
you for your kind congratulations on our late successes
and good wishes for the establishment of our liberty.
" I have the honour to be, respectfully, Sir

" Your most obedient humble servant

"B. FRANKLIN."

Some of Franklin's contributions to medical literature
have become classical. Witness his letters to Cadwallader
Evans, and Benjamin Vaughan, upon the causes of the
colica Pictonum, or "dry belly ache," and his numerous
papers upon catarrhs and contagious colds.

Dr. John Hunter took the hints that he found in the first-
named letter, and built them, with due acknowledgement,
into his essay on the "dry belly ache of the tropics." Writ-
ing to Dr. Cadwallader Evans, under date of February 20,
1768, Franklin said: "I have long been of opinion that that
distemper proceeds always from a metallic cause only;
observing that it affects among tradesmen, those that use
lead, however different their trades, — as glaziers, letter-
founders, plumbers, potters, white lead makers and painters,
and although the worms of stills ought to be of pure tin, they
are often made of pewter, which has a great mixture in it
of lead." When Franklin and Benjamin Vaughan talked
together at Southampton in 1785, while waiting for Franklin's
ship to sail, the last subject upon which they conversed was

120 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

the bad effects of lead taken inwardly. Twelve months
after Franklin wrote to his friend a particular account of
several facts he had at that time mentioned to him. He
recalled a personal experience when working in London
as a compositor: "I there found a practice I had never seen
before, of drying a case of types (which are wet in distribu-
tion) by placing it sloping before the fire. I found this had
the additional advantage, when the types were not only
dried but heated, of being comfortable to the hands working
over them in cold weather. I therefore sometimes heated
my case when the types did not want drying. But an old
workman, observing it, advised me not to do so, telling me
I might lose the use of my hands by it, as two of our com-
panions had nearly done, one of whom that used to earn
his guinea a week, could not then make more than ten shil-
lings, and the other, who had the dangles, but seven and
sixpence. This, with a kind of obscure pain, that I had
sometimes felt, as it were in the bones of my hand when
working over the types made very hot, induced me to omit
the practice. ... I have been told of a case in Europe,
I forget the place, where a whole family was afflicted with
what we call the dry belly ache, or colica Pictonum, by
drinking rain water. It was at a country-seat, which, being
situated too high to have the advantage of a well, was sup-
plied with water from a tank, which received the water
from the leaded roofs. This had been drunk several years
without mischief; but some young trees planted near the
house growing up above the roof, and shedding their leaves
upon it, it was supposed that an acid in those leaves had
corroded the lead they covered, and furnished the water
of that year with its baneful particles and qualities."

PHILOSOPHICAL WORKS 121

When Franklin was in Paris with Sir John Pringle in
1767, the latter visited La Charite, a hospital particularly
famous for the cure of that malady, and brought away a
pamphlet containing a list of the names of persons, with
their professions or trades, who had been cured there.
Franklin had the curiosity to examine the list, and found
that all the patients were of trades that, some way or other,
use or work in lead.

When that impudent and amazing impostor Mesmer
was at the height of favour in Paris, coining the French
credulity into gold, claiming that magnetic and healing
effluvia streamed from his finger tips, Franklin was ap-
pointed by the king a member of a commission to inquire
into the therapeutic value of "Mesmerism." The four
distinguished physicians to serve upon the commission were
Majault, Sallin, D'Arcet, and Guillotin. The five members
of the Academy appointed to confer with them were Franklin,
Le Roy, Bailly, De Bory, and Lavoisier.

The commission conducted its examination of Mesmer's
doctrine and experiments, from the i2th of March, 1784,
to the nth of August of that year.

The report was drawn up by Franklin, to whose sagacity
and ingenuity the complete exposure and discomfiture of
Mesmer was chiefly due. The distinguished professor of
the Faculty of Medicine at Paris, Dr. Gilles de la Tourette,
has called the report "a scientific work of the first order,
which is worthy of being consulted to-day by all those who
are interested in hypnotism and the diseases of the nervous
system."1

1 See Tourtourat, "Benj. Franklin et la Medecine a la Fin du XVIII8
Siecle." Paris, 1900, p. 37.

122 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

Mesmer fled, rich and disgraced to England, where he
disappeared from sight. Paris resumed her tranquillity
and awaited a new sensation, while the wits composed such
epigrams as the following which was sent to Franklin : —

Le Magne'tisme(dem)asque'

Epigramme

faite sur le champ apres avoir lu le rapport des Commissaires.
Le Magne*tisme est aux abois
La Facultd 1'Acade'mie
L'ont condamn£ tous d'une voix,
Et Pont couvert d'ignominie
Apres ce jugement bien sage et bien le"gal
Si quelque esprit original
Persiste encore dans son de'lire
II sera permis de lui dire
Crois au magne'tisme — animal ! J

One of Franklin's favourite beliefs was that physicians
were "on a wrong scent in supposing moist or cold air the
causes of that disorder we call a cold." He was persuaded
that colds were generally the effect of too full living, and
that they were frequently contagious. This "heresy," as he
called it, he expounded in letters to Dr. Dubourg (March 10
and June 29, 1773), Benjamin Rush (July 14, 1773), and
Dr. Thomas Percival (September 25, 1773). He engaged
Dr. Stark to make experiments with Sanctorius's balance, to
estimate the different proportions of his perspiration, when
remaining one hour quite naked and another warmly clothed.
The experiment was pursued in this alternate manner for

1 Franklin's copy of the Report of the Royal Commission is in the
Pennsylvania Historical Society. It is entitled " Rapport des commissaires
charges par le Roi de 1'examen du Magnetisme Animal. Imprime par ordre
du Roi. A Paris. De I'Imprimerie Royale. MDCCLXXXIV."

See also letter from F. to Condamine, March 19, 1784, and letter from
Mesmer to F., December I, 1779.

PHILOSOPHICAL WORKS 123

eight hours successively, and the physician found that his
perspiration almost doubled during those hours in which
he was naked. To Le Roy, who had consulted him about
hospitals, Franklin wrote: "I can only say, that, if a free and
copious perspiration is of use in diseases, that seems to be
best obtained by light covering and fresh air continually
changing : the moisture on the skin, when the body is warmly
covered, being a deception, and the effect, not of greater
transpiration, but of the saturation of the air included
under and in the bed clothes, which therefore can absorb
no more, and so leaves it on the surface of the body. . . .
Our physicians have begun to discover that fresh air is good
for people in the small-pox, and other fevers. I hope in
time they will find out, that it does no harm to people in
health."

With regard to contagious colds he wrote to Dr. Rush:
"I have long been satisfied from observation, that besides
the general colds now termed influenzas (which may pos-
sibly spread by contagion, as well as by a particular quality
of the air), people often catch cold from one another when
shut up together in close rooms, coaches, etc., and when
sitting near and conversing, so as to breathe in each other's
transpiration; the disorder being in a certain state. I
think too that it is the frouzy, corrupt air from animal
substances, and the perspired matter from our bodies, which
being long confined in beds not lately used, and clothes not
lately worn, and books long shut up in close rooms, obtains
that kind of putridity, which occasions the colds observed
upon sleeping in, wearing, and turning over such bed clothes,
or books, and not their coldness or dampness. From these
causes, but more from too full living, with too little exercise,

124 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

proceed in my opinion most of the disorders which for about
one hundred and fifty years past the English have called
colds."

Felix Vicq d'Azyr communicated to the Royal Society
of Medicine a letter from Franklin upon the long retention
of infection in dead bodies after sepulture. He cited an
instance of the spread of smallpox in an English village
through the opening of the grave of a man who had died of
that disease thirty years before. "About the year 1763
or 1764 several physicians of London, who had been present
from curiosity at the dissection of an Egyptian mummy,
were soon after taken ill of a malignant fever of which they
died. Opinions were divided on this occasion. It was
thought by some that the fever was caused by infection
from the mummy ; in which case the disease it died of might
have been embalmed as well as the body. Others who
considered the length of time, at least two thousand years,
since that body died, and also that the embalming must be
rather supposed to destroy the power of infection, imagined
the illness of these gentlemen must have had another original."
Still another instance which Franklin doubtfully adduces
is the singularly violent cold with which two members of
the Royal Society were affected immediately after making
a close examination of the dried body, at least three hundred
years old, of one of the ancient inhabitants of the island of
Teneriffe.

The Earl of Buchan always declared that Franklin's
advice had saved his life, for when he lay ill of a fever at
St. Andrews, Franklin dissented from the opinion of the
learned Dr. Simpson that the patient should be blistered.
The earl, then Lord Cadross, hearkened to Franklin, and

PHILOSOPHICAL WORKS 125

his advice proved so salutary that the disorder speedily took
a favourable turn.

The world is indebted to Franklin for the invention of
the bifocal glasses. His friend George Whatley told
Dollond, the famous optician, of the invention, but the
latter fancied that it would only benefit particular eyes and
could be of no general use. In reply Franklin said: "By
Mr. Dollond's saying that my double spectacles can only
serve particular eyes, I doubt he has not been rightly in-
formed of their construction. I imagine it will be found
pretty generally true, that the same convexity of glass through
which a man sees clearest and best at the distance proper
for reading is not the best for greater distances. I therefore
had formerly two pair of spectacles which I shifted occa-
sionally, as in travelling I sometimes read, and often wanted
to regard the prospects. Finding this change troublesome,
and not always sufficiently ready, I had the glasses cut and
half of each kind associated in the same circle. By this
means as I wear my spectacles constantly, I have only to
move my eyes up or down, as I want to see distinctly far or
near, the proper glasses being always ready. This I find
more particularly convenient since my being in France, the
glasses that serve me best at table to see what I eat, not being
the best to see the faces of those on the other side of the
table who speak to me; and when one's ears are not well
accustomed to the sounds of a language, a sight of the move-
ments in the features of him that speaks help to explain;
so that I understand French better by the help of my spec-
tacles."

Ventilation was a subject to which Franklin devoted
careful attention. He was said to be the first who observed

126 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

that respiration communicated to the air a quality resem-
bling the mephitic ; such as the Grotto del Cane, near Naples.
"The air impressed with this quality rises only to a certain
height, beyond which it gradually loses it. The amend-
ment begins in the upper part, and descends gradually
until the whole becomes capable of sustaining life." Dr.
Small, an English surgeon, in a paper read before the French
Academy of Sciences, said: "The Doctor confirmed this
by the following experiment. He breathed gently through
a tube into a deep glass mug, so as to impregnate all the air
in the mug with this quality. He then put a lighted bougie
into the mug; and upon touching the air therein the flame
was instantly extinguished; by frequently repeating the
operation, the bougie gradually preserved its light longer
in the mug, so as in a short time to retain it to the bottom
of it; the air having totally lost the bad quality it had con-
tracted from the breath blown into it." ' Upon a visit
to Priestley he was much interested in observing the flourish-
ing state of some mint that was growing in noxious air. It
immediately suggested to him "that the air is mended by
taking something from it and not by adding to it." After
a little reflection he wrote to Priestley: "We knew before
that putrid animal substances were converted into sweet
vegetables, when mixed with the earth and applied as
manure; and now it seems that the same putrid substances,
mixed with the air have a similar effect. ... I hope this
will give some check to the rage of destroying trees that
grow near houses, which has accompanied our late im-

1 Alexander Small, on Ventilation ; communicated to the Royal Academy
of Sciences. Printed in M. Dubourg's edition of Franklin's works, Vol. II,
p. 314. Transcript in Library of Congress.

PHILOSOPHICAL WORKS 127

provements in gardening from an opinion of their being
unwholesome." l

The Government of England consulted Franklin upon
the ventilation of the House of Commons. He "represented
that the personal atmosphere surrounding the members
might be carried off by making outlets in perpendicular
parts of the seats, through which the air might be drawn
off by ventilators, so placed, as to accomplish this without
admitting any by the same channels." He also proposed
that openings should be made close to the ceilings of rooms
communicating with a flue which should ascend in the wall
close to the flues of the chimneys, and, where it could be
done conveniently, close to the flue of the kitchen chimney ;
because the fire, burning pretty constantly there, would keep
the sides of that flue warmer than those of the other chim-
neys; whereby a quicker current of air would be kept up
in the ventilating flue. Alexander Small showed what he
called "Franklin's directions in regard to ventilation" to one
of the Messrs. Adam, of the Adelphi, who not only applied
the principles in the construction of the great room built
by them for the meeting of the Society for the Encourage-
ment of Arts, but insisted upon the dissertation being given
to the Royal Society at Edinburgh. "If it is published
by them," added Small, "I shall, as Sir Richard Steele says
somewhere to Mr. Addison, live joined to a work of thine." 2

His attention to questions of ventilation led him to the
careful observation of chimneys and to the invention of
the new stove, or " Pennsylvanian Fire Place." Here again

1 Franklin to Priestley; published in Priestley's "Experiments on Air,"
Vol. I, p. 94.

2 Alexander Small to Benjamin Franklin, November 29, 1788. A. P. S.

128 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

his reputation spread over the continent. He published
his "Account of the new-invented Pennsylvanian Fire-
Places" in 1744. He wrote upon the causes and cure of
smoky chimneys to Dr. Ingenhousz (August 28, 1785), to
Sir Alexander Dick (January 21, 1762), to the Marquis
Turgot (May i, 1781), and to Lord Kames (February 28,
1768).

Before the time of Franklin's invention smoky chim-
neys were among the commonest annoyances of domestic
life. A smoky house is mentioned by Shakespeare in the
category of tedious things, with a tired horse and a railing
wife. "How may smoky chimneys be best cured?" was
one of Franklin's queries for the Junto. "It is strange
methinks," he remarked, "that though chimneys have been
for so long in use, the construction should be so little under-
stood, till lately, that no workman pretended to make one
which should always carry off all smoke." Lord Kames
wrote that he had bought a house which would be the most
complete in Edinburgh but that the chimney smoked. He
applied to Franklin as "a universal smoke doctor" to remedy
it.1

Another disadvantage of the old fireplace was its merely
local warmth: "The cold air so nips the backs and heels
of those that sit before the fire, that they have no com-
fort till either screens or settles are provided to keep it
off, which both cumber the room and darken the fire-side.
A moderate quantity of wood on the fire, in so strong and
cold a draft, warms but little ; so that people are continually
laying on more. In short it is next to impossible to warm

1 Henry Home (Lord Kames) to Franklin. Edinburgh, February 18,
1768. A. P.S.

PHILOSOPHICAL WORKS 129

a room with such a fire place." The Pennsylvanian Fire
Place which he invented in 1742 had the advantage "that
your whole room is equally warmed, so that people need
not crowd so close round the fire, but may sit near the win-
dow, and have the benefit of the light for reading, writing,
needlework, etc. They may sit with comfort in any part
of the room, which is a very considerable advantage in a
large family, where there must often be two fires kept, be-
cause all cannot conveniently come at one." As very little
of the heat is lost when this fireplace is used, "much less
wood will serve you, which is a considerable advantage
when wood is dear. . . . We leave it to the political
arithmetician to compute how much money will be saved
to a country, by its spending two thirds less of fuel; how
much labour saved in cutting and carriage of it ; how much
more land may be cleared by cultivation; how great the
profit by the additional quantity of work done, in those
trades particularly that do not exercise the body so much,
but that the work folks are obliged to run frequently to the
fire to warm themselves; and to physicians to say, how
much healthier thick-built towns and cities will be, now
half suffocated with sulphury smoke, when so much less
of that smoke shall be made, and the air breathed by the
inhabitants be consequently so much purer." 1 The simple
principle upon which the new fireplace was designed was
that the heat from an open fire after ascending should be
made to descend before escaping through the chimney, and
thus be made to heat currents of fresh air as they entered
the room.

1 " An Account of the new-invented Pennsylvanian Fire Places." Phila-
delphia, 1744.

VOL. I — K

130 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

Cadwallader Golden sent Franklin's pamphlet to Grono-
vius, a distinguished scion of an erudite family, saying : " It
may be particularly useful to you and Dr. Linnaeus by pre-
serving your health while it keeps you warm at your studies.
It is the invention of Mr. Benjamin Franklin of Philadel-
phia, the printer of it, a very ingenious man." Gronovius
replied, "I am very much obliged to you for Mr. Franklin's
book which I don't doubt the next letter shall bring to you
translated into Dutch" (Leyden, July 9, 1745)-

Turgot wrote to Franklin (April 25, 1781) to ascertain
the method by which his stove consumed its own smoke
and diminished the quantity of fuel which it consumed.
The stove to which he referred was not the invention of
1742, but a second contrivance which Franklin completed
in 1771, and which was constructed on the principle of a
siphon reversed, "operating on air somewhat similar to
the operation of the common siphon on water, . . . this
causes the smoke to descend also, and in passing through
burning coals it is kindled into flame, thereby heating more
the passages in the iron box whereon the vase which contains
the coals is placed; and retarding at the same time the
consumption of the coals." 1

It was this invention that suggested the clever epigram
which has been ascribed to many authors: —

"INSCRIPTION ON A CURIOUS STOVE IN THE FORM OF AN URN,
CONTRIVED IN SUCH A MANNER AS TO MAKE THE FLAME
DESCEND INSTEAD OF RISING FROM THE FlRE, INVENTED BY
DR. FRANKLIN.

"Like a Newton sublimely he soared
To a summit before unattained,

1 Franklin to the Marquis Turgot, Passy, May I, 1781.

PHILOSOPHICAL WORKS 131

New regions of science explored
And the palm of philosophy gained.

u With a spark which he caught from the skies

He displayed an unparalleled wonder,
And we saw with delight and surprise

That his rod could secure us from thunder.

" Oh ! had he been wise to pursue

The track for his talents designed,
What a tribute of praise had been due
To the teacher and friend of mankind.

" But to covet political fame

Was in him a degrading ambition,
The spark that from Lucifer came
And kindled the blaze of sedition.

" Let candor then write on his urn,
Here lies the renowned inventor
Whose fame to the skies ought to burn
But inverted descends to the centre."1

Franklin's essay "On the Causes and Cure of Smoky
Chimneys" was written at sea in August, 1785, and first
appeared in the Transactions of The American Philosophical
Society, where it was read October 21, 1785. It is an ex-
haustive and thoroughly scientific discussion of nine direct
causes of the effect in question with the remedies in each
case, together with the principles on which both the disease
and the remedy depend. It is written in a sprightly vein and
contains some illustrative stories and anecdotes well told.

After more than twenty years' experience of his own in-

1 These verses have been variously ascribed to Jonathan Odell, Miss Norris,
and others. The most likely ascription seems to be to Hannah Griffiths,
among whose papers, in the Ridgway Library, Philadelphia, a manuscript
copy is found. — ED.

132 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

vention (the Pennsylvanian Fire Place) and those of others
for the warming of rooms, Franklin was of the opinion that
the best contrivance for common use was a thin iron plate
sliding in a grooved frame of iron inserted in the opening
of the chimney. "The principles of this construction are
these: Chimney funnels are made much larger than is
necessary for conveying the smoke. In a large funnel a
great quantity of air is continually ascending out of the
room, which must be supplied through the crevices of doors,
windows, floors, wainscots, etc. This occasions a continual
current of cold air from the extreme parts of the room to
the chimney, which presses the air warmed by the direct
rays of the fire into the chimney and carries it off, thereby
preventing its diffusing itself to warm the room. By con-
tracting the funnel with this plate, the draft of air up the
chimney is greatly lessened, and the introduction of cold
air through the crevices to supply its place is proportionally
lessened. Hence the room is more uniformly warmed, and
with less fire, and the currents of cold air towards the chim-
ney being lessened it becomes much more comfortable
sitting before the fire." l

It has been already said that Franklin never sought to
profit by any of his inventions. And there have not been
wanting detractors who have attempted to deprive him of
the fame of his discoveries. It has been repeatedly asserted
that he assumed to himself the credit of achievements that
really belonged to a humble and obscure scholar named
Ebenezer Kinnersley. How this hapless and undone scientist
regarded his wanton plunderer may best be inferred from

1 Franklin to Sir Alexander Dick, London, January 21, 1762. See also
Franklin to James Bowdoin, London, December 2, 1758.

PHILOSOPHICAL WORKS 133

a letter addressed by him to Franklin, in which, after narrat-
ing the way in which a house in Philadelphia was saved
from destruction by a lightning rod, he concludes: "And
now Sir, I most heartily congratulate you on the pleasure
you must have in finding your great and well founded expec-
tations so far fulfilled. May this method of security from
the destructive violence of one of the most awful powers
of nature meet with such further success, as to induce every
good and grateful heart to bless God for the important
discovery! May the benefit thereof be diffused over the
whole globe! May it extend to the latest posterity of
mankind, and make the name of FRANKLIN like that of
NEWTON immortal" l

Franklin's numerous experiences in this kind suggested
the painful reflections found in his excellent letter to Dr.
Lining, of Charleston. He says: "Through envy, jealousy
and the vanity of competitors for fame, the origin of many of
the most extraordinary inventions, though produced within
but a few centuries past, is involved in doubt and uncertainty.
We scarce know to whom we are indebted for the compass
and spectacles, nor have even paper and printing, that
record everything else, been able to preserve with certainty
the name and reputation of their inventors. One would
not, therefore, of all faculties or qualities of the mind, wish,
for a friend or a child, that he should have that of invention.
For his attempts to benefit mankind in that way, however
well imagined, if they do not succeed, expose him, though
very unjustly, to general ridicule and contempt; and, if
they do succeed, to envy, robbery and abuse." 2

1 E. Kinnersley to Franklin, Philadelphia, March 12, 1761.

2 Franklin to John Lining, Philadelphia, March 18, 1755.

134 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

It is time to close this halting and imperfect summary
of Franklin's scientific activities. The task is difficult
because of the volume and variety of his contributions. He
was restlessly curious about all natural phenomena, and
he penetrated with astonishing swiftness and certainty to
the heart of each new mystery he encountered. It was
his delight to watch the growth of knowledge and of power,
and in speculative moments he dipped into the future, pleas-
ing his fancy with the imaginary contemplation of the
wonders that would be.

To Ingenhousz he wrote: "To inquisitive minds like yours
and mine the reflection that the quantity of human knowl-
edge bears no proportion to the quantity of human igno-
rance must be in one view rather pleasing, viz. that though
we are to live forever we may be continually amused and
delighted with learning something new." Upon one occa-
sion he submitted to M. Dubourg some observations on the
prevailing doctrines of life and death. He told him that
he had been present at the house of a friend in London
when a bottle of Madeira that had been sent from Virginia
was opened, and three drowned flies fell into the first glass
that was filled. "Having heard it remarked that drowned
flies were capable of being revived by the rays of the sun, I
proposed making an experiment upon these; they were
therefore exposed to the sun upon a sieve which had been
employed to strain them out of the wine. In less than
three hours two of them began by degrees to recover life.
They commenced by some convulsive motions of the thighs,
and at length they raised themselves upon their legs, wiped
their eyes with their forefeet, beat and brushed their wings
with their hind feet, and soon after began to fly, finding

POLITICAL AND ECONOMICAL WORKS 135

themselves in Old England, without knowing how they
came thither. The third continued lifeless till sunset,
when, losing all hopes of him, he was thrown away.

" I wish it were possible, from this instance, to invent a
method of embalming drowned persons, in such a manner
that they may be recalled to life at any period, however dis-
tant ; for having a very ardent desire to see and observe the
state of America a hundred years hence, I should prefer to
any ordinary death, the being immersed in a cask of Madeira
wine, with a few friends, till that time, to be then recalled
to life by the solar warmth of my dear country." l

Had his eyes opened after a century's slumber, upon what
a world would their calm gaze have rested ! The vast
images that he saw in glimmering dawn become now the
commonplaces of schoolboys. His daring prophecies of
the possibilities of electricity more than fulfilled. A great
and proud people, justifying his unfaltering faith in popular
instincts and institutions, holding in grateful and perpetual
memory his lifelong labours and sacrifices!

POLITICAL AND ECONOMICAL WORKS

Franklin was the first American economist. The study
of political economy employed his thoughts before the minds
of speculative men in Europe were attracted to its problems.
He became the intimate friend of the physiocrats of France,
and exchanged ideas and books with Dupont de Nemours,
Dubourg, Mirabeau, Turgot, Morellet, Condorcet, and "the
venerable apostle Quesnay. He anticipated Turgot in the
explanation of natural interest, and Malthus in the theory

1 Dubourg's edition of Franklin, Vol. I, p. 327.

136 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

of population. Adam Smith communicated with him on
some particulars of "The Wealth of Nations" several years
before that epoch-making work was published. Edmund
Burke, Dr. Price, and Lord Kames gleaned from him.
David Hume followed his writings with keen interest,
though he disapproved his "factious spirit"; faction and
fanaticism were alike detestable to that easy, sceptical, Tory
soul. He fertilized the mind of Cobden, and was clear and
acute upon problems of trade which vex the political thought
of the present time.
His economic works are : —

" A Modest Enquiry into the Nature and Necessity of a Paper Cur-
rency11 .

" Observations concerning the Increase of Mankind and the Peopling
of Countries " .

"The Interest of Great Britain Considered, with regard to her colo-
nies, and the Acquisitions of Canada and Guadaloupe" .

" Remarks and Facts relative to the American Paper Money " .

"Positions to be examined concerning National Wealth n .

" Comparison of Great Britain and the United States in regard to the
basis of Credit in the two Countries" .

"On the Paper Money of the United States" .

" Reflections on the Augmentation of Wages, which will be occa-
sioned in Europe by the American Revolution" .

" Internal State of America, being a true description of the Interest
and Policy of that vast Continent" .

"Information to those who would remove to America" .

Besides these more formal works there exist a number of
briefer papers, mere glances at social and political circum-
stances, which are to be found in the prefaces and prog-
nostics of Poor Richard and in the anonymous columns
of the periodicals of Europe. Such are the "Advice to a

f

o C

i" z

POLITICAL AND ECONOMICAL WORKS 137

Young Tradesman," "The Way to Wealth," "On the Price
of Corn, and the Management of the Poor," "Wail of a
Protected Manufacturer."

"Principles of Trade," originally published in 1774, has
been frequently included among the works of Franklin. As
it is well known to have been written by George Whatley,
and was so acknowledged by Franklin, it has been omitted
from this edition. Franklin wrote to Mr. Whatley (August
21, 1784): "Your excellent little work, 'The Principles of
Trade,' is too little known. I wish you would send me a
copy of it by the return of my grandson and secretary whom
I beg leave to recommend to your civilities. I would get
it translated and printed here. And if your bookseller has
any quantity of them left, I should be glad he would send
them to America. The ideas of our people there, though
rather better than those that prevail in Europe, are not so
good as they should be; and that piece might be of service
among them."

"An Historical Review of the Constitution and Govern-
ment of Pennsylvania," th'e most voluminous work ascribed
to Franklin and printed in nearly every previous edition of
his works, is omitted from this collection. It is clear from
internal evidence and from Franklin's statement to David
Hume that it was not of his writing. He told Hume (Septem-
ber 27, 1760): "The volume relating to our Pennsylvania
affairs was not written by me, nor any part of it, except the
remarks on the Proprietor's estimate of his estate, and some
of the inserted messages and reports of the Assembly, which I
wrote when at home, as a member of committees appointed by
the House of that service. The rest was by another hand."
There can be no doubt that Franklin prompted the writing

138 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

of the book. The ideas are his, and he approved of its
purpose, which was the promoting the claims of the Penn-
sylvania Assembly in their controversy with the Proprietaries.
He did all in his power to circulate the work in England and
America. He sent five hundred copies to Mr. Hall, fifty to
be delivered to the assembly. He sent twenty- five copies to
Mr. Parker in New York, and a like number to Mecom in
Boston. To paraphrase Queen Elizabeth in the play,
"Whose hand soever held the pen, his head all indirectly
gave direction." But this is not authorship; and it is mani-
festly superfluous and improper to include among the works
of Franklin a publication which, however inspired by him,
was not of his composition.

Another work was only partly written by Franklin. "The
Interest of Great Britain Considered, with regard to her colo-
nies, and the Acquisitions of Canada and Guadaloupe, "
commonly known as "The Canada Pamphlet," was the
joint production of Benjamin Franklin and Richard Jack-
son.

Their relative shares in the work it is now impossible to
determine. When Vaughan was preparing the 1779 edition
of Franklin's works, he consulted with Baron Maseres, of
the Inner Temple, with regard to the participation of the two
writers. Maseres marked with a black perpendicular line
those parts of the pamphlet which, according to his belief,
were written by Franklin. After much deliberation Vaughan
replied that the affair had become too delicate for him to
intermeddle with it. The claim of the "omniscient Jack-
son" extended to two-thirds of the whole pamphlet. A
problem that was "too delicate" for the judgment of one of
Franklin's dearest and wisest friends is much too difficult

POLITICAL AND ECONOMICAL WORKS 139

for us to decide upon. The entire work is therefore printed
here as the joint production of Franklin and Jackson.

All Franklin's economical works had their origin in the
social circumstances and public exigencies of the times when
they were written. They were intended to subserve a defi-
nite political purpose, and might be called campaign docu-
ments. They contain, therefore, no system of economic
thought, no carefully reasoned scheme of philosophy, no
congeries of laws underlying and interpreting the compli-
cated fabric of society. Their author is often inconsistent,
he frequently contradicts himself, and is obviously pursuing
what he regards as political expediency.

"A Modest Inquiry into the Nature and Necessity of a
Paper Currency" was intended primarily to increase "the
trade, employment, and number of inhabitants in the prov-
ince," but the hope of securing the printing of the money
was not absent from the author's thrifty mind. The colonies
were suffering from lack of currency. Massachusetts, New
York, Rhode Island, and South Carolina had attempted to
meet the requirements of their growth by the issue of paper
money. When Franklin walked the quiet streets of Phila-
delphia on the memorable Sunday in October, 1723, when
he first arrived from Burlington, he saw many houses in
Walnut Street between Second and Front streets with bills
on their doors, "To be let." In other streets he saw similar
signs; which, he said, "made me think the inhabitants of
the city were one after another deserting it." Trade was
languishing for lack of currency. The balance of trade
being greatly in favour of Britain, Pennsylvania was totally
stripped of its gold and silver. Cautiously and fearfully a
small sum of paper money (£1 5,000) was struck in that year.

140 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

Immediately trade revived. The notes were to be called in
at the end of eight years. About this time there
went up a cry among the people for more paper money. The
clamour was strengthened by Franklin's anonymous pam-
phlet, and the point was carried by a majority in the House.
As he had hoped, he was employed to print the money: "A
very profitable job, and a great help to me. This was an-
other advantage gained by my being able to write." His
opinions with regard to paper money experienced consider-
able fluctuation. In 1729 he appeared to believe that an
overissue was impossible. In 1781, in his history of the
"Paper Money of the United States," he ascribed the de-
preciation of the continental currency to overissue. In
1765, in his vindication of the colonial paper money, he
maintained that such currency should be a legal tender:
"It is therefore hoped that, securing the full discharge of
British debts, which are payable here, and in all justice and
reason ought to be fully discharged here, in sterling money,
the restraint on the legal tender within the colonies will be
taken off; at least for those colonies that desire it, and
when the merchants trading to them make no objection
to it."1

In a letter to M. le Veillard (February 17, 1788) he said:
"Where there is a free government and the people make
their own laws by their representatives I see no injustice in
their obliging one another to take their own paper money.
It is no more so than compelling a man by law to take his
own note. But it is unjust to pay strangers with such money
against their will. The making of paper money with such

1 " Remarks and Facts relative to the American Paper Money " (conclud-
ing paragraph).

POLITICAL AND ECONOMICAL WORKS 141

a sanction is however a folly, since, although you may by
law oblige a citizen to take it for his goods, you cannot fix
his prices; and his liberty of rating them as he pleases,
which is the same thing as setting what value he pleases on
your money, defeats your sanction."

When he wrote his "Remarks and Facts" he opposed
interest-bearing paper money, saying that wherever the ex-
periment had been tried "the bills were in a short time
gathered up and hoarded; it being a very tempting advan-
tage to have money bearing interest, and the principal all
the while in a man's power, ready for bargains that may
offer; which money out on mortgage is not." He shifted
his ground again when confronted with the serious depre-
ciation of American currency, and wrote to Samuel Cooper
(April 22, 1779): "I took all the pains I could in Congress
to prevent the depreciation, by proposing first, that the bills
should bear interest ; this was rejected, and they were struck
as you see them. Secondly, after the first emission, I pro-
posed that we should stop, strike no more, but borrow on
interest those we had issued. This was not then approved
of, and more bills were issued. When, from the too great
quantity, they began to depreciate, we agreed to borrow on
interest ; and I proposed that in order to fix the value of the
principal, the interest should be promised in hard dollars.
This was objected to as impracticable; but I still continue
of opinion, that, by sending out cargoes to purchase it, we
might have brought in money sufficient for that purpose, as
we brought in powder, etc. " He concludes his letter with : —

"This effect of paper currency is not understood on this
side the water [France]. And indeed the whole is a mystery
even to the politicians, how we have been able to continue

142 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

a war four years without money, and how we could pay
with paper that had no previously fixed fund appropriated
specifically to redeem it. This currency, as we manage it,
is a wonderful machine. It performs its office when we issue
it; it pays and clothes troops, and provides victuals and
ammunition; and when we are obliged to issue a quantity
excessive it pays itself off by depreciation." *

"Observations concerning the Increase of Mankind and
the Peopling of Countries" appeared in 1751, when restraints
were being imposed upon manufactures in the colonies.
One after another the productive industries were restricted
or prohibited. Soon after the appointment of Charles
Townshend's committee of the House of Commons to in-
quire into the subject of iron manufactures, Franklin's pam-
phlet was published. It was written as a protest against
the government's policy of commercial interference and
restriction, but it is memorable as an important essay in the
history of the theory of population, to which Malthus and
Adam Smith and all later students are indebted. Franklin
argued that on account of the dearness of labour in the colo-

1 The gravest apprehensions arose from the depreciation of the paper
money. In 1777 a bushel of salt sold at Baltimore for £g. A cow which in
1776 sold for £6 would sell a year later for £18 or £20. Charles Carroll of
Carrollton wrote to Franklin : "I have a coat on, the cloth of which
is not worth more than ten shillings a yard, and would not have cost more
eighteen months ago, which lately cost me four pounds ten a yard. Rye
sells as high as ten shillings a bushel, the distillers give that price to distil it
into whiskey."

James Read informed George Read (March 23, 1779) that Vattel's "Laws
of Nations " would bring $400 and that one volume of Gibbon would cost
$40. He acknowledged the receipt (July 13, 1779) of $1000 for a mare, and
on the 2ist of October he bid as high as $55 tor a ream of indifferent writing
paper, but did not get it because it sold for £75. In 1780 cassimere was $300
per yard, and jean and habit cloth $60 per yard. — ED.

POLITICAL AND ECONOMICAL WORKS 143

nies the danger of their interfering with their mother country
in trades that depended on manufactures was too remote to
require the attention of Great Britain. "But in propor-
tion to the increase of the colonies a vast demand is growing
for British manufactures, a glorious market wholly in the
power of Britain, in which foreigners cannot interfere, which
will increase in a short time even beyond her power of sup-
plying, though her whole trade should be to her colonies;
therefore Britain should not too much restrain manufactures
in her colonies. A wise and good mother will not do it.
To distress is to weaken, and weakening the children weakens
the whole family. "

It would appear that Malthus had not read Franklin
when he published the first edition of his "Essay on Popula-
tion" . In the preface to the second edition he con-
fessed that "in the course of this inquiry I found that much
more had been done than I had been aware of when I first
published the essay. " Among his predecessors he mentions
Franklin, and he adopts from him his rate of increase of
population in America. In the "Increase of Mankind"
Franklin says: "There are supposed to be now upwards of
one million English souls in North America (though it is
thought scarce eighty thousand has been brought over sea),
and yet perhaps there is not one the fewer in Britain, but
rather many more, on account of the employment the colo-
nies afford to manufactures at home. This million doubling,
suppose but once in twenty-five years, will, in another cen-
tury, be more than the people of England, and the greatest
number of Englishmen will be on this side the water."
And again he says, "Marriages in America are more
general, and more generally early, than in Europe. And

144 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN' FRANKLIN

if it is reckoned there, that there is but one marriage per
annum among one hundred persons, perhaps we may here
reckon two ; and if in Europe they have but four births to a
marriage (many of their marriages being late), we may here
reckon eight, of which, if one half grow up, and our marriages
are made, reckoning one with another, at twenty years of
age, our people must at least be doubled every twenty years. "

Malthus also learned from Franklin that luxury acts as
a preventive check to population. Grasping the full sig-
nificance of this fact, Malthus rewrote his "Essay," saying
"throughout the whole of the present work I have so far
differed in principle from the former as to suppose the action
of another check to population which does not come under
the head of either vice or misery. "

Emigration and all the other problems of population were
favourite topics of reflection with Franklin, and remarks
concerning them abound in his writings. One of the most
powerful of these papers is a letter to the Public Advertiser
"On a Proposed Act of Parliament for preventing Emigra-
tion." As to the necessity of the proposed law, he writes:
"The waters of the ocean may move in currents from one
quarter of the globe to another, as they happen in some
places to be accumulated, and in others diminished; but
no law, beyond the law of gravity, is necessary to prevent
their abandoning any coast entirely. Thus the different
degrees of happiness of different countries and situations
find, or rather make, their level by the flowing of people
from one to another; and when that level is once found,
the removals cease. Add to this, that even a real deficiency
of people in any country, occasioned by a wasting war or
pestilence, is speedily supplied by earlier and more prolific

POLITICAL AND ECONOMICAL WORKS 145

marriages, encouraged by the greater facility of obtaining
the means of subsistence. So that a country half depopu-
lated would soon be repeopled, till the means of subsistence
were equalled by the population. All increase beyond that
point must perish, or flow off into more favourable situations.
Such overflowings there have been of mankind in all ages,
or we should not now have had so many nations. But to
apprehend absolute depopulation from that cause, and call
for a law to prevent it, is calling for a law to stop the
Thames, lest its waters, by what leave it daily at Gravesend,
should be quite exhausted."

" The Interest of Great Britain Considered, with regard to
her colonies, and the Acquisitions of Canada and Guada-
loupe" is commonly known as Franklin's "Canada Pam-
phlet." It was published anonymously in London in 1760
directly after Wolfe's decisive victory at Quebec. Much
speculation was then indulged in concerning the terms of
peace. John Douglas, Bishop of Salisbury, wrote a "Letter
to two great Men" (Pitt and Newcastle), arguing for the
retention of Canada as being of greater value to England
than any West Indian possessions. "Remarks on the
Letter to two great Men" was anonymously published di-
rectly afterward. Franklin's pamphlet is a judicial sum-
mary of both publications and a reinforcement of the position
taken by John Douglas. Franklin was an imperialist.
He looked forward to a time when the whole American
continent should be English. He was therefore impressed
with the necessity of overcoming the French influence in
Canada and Louisiana. The ingenuity and dexterity of the
argument in this able and admirable pamphlet had much
to do with the retention of Canada by Great Britain.

VOL. I — L

146 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

"Comparison of Great Britain and the United States in
regard to the basis of Credit in the two Countries" was
written in France early in 1777, in order to increase the
jealousy the Dutch and other moneyed people in Europe
began to entertain of the English funds, and thereby facilitate
the loan of ^2,000,000 sterling in compliance with the reso-
lution of Congress, December 23, 1776.

"The Internal State of America" and "Information to
those who would remove to America" were written after
the treaty of peace and with the object of drawing Euro-
pean emigrants to America.

It was part of Franklin's mission in France to influence
public opinion upon the continent, to stir up strife, and to
promote a spirit of antagonism to England. This he did
through the help of many influential correspondents and by
means of "inspired" articles in the European press. His
political correspondence with Dr. Ingenhousz in Vienna
was meant to be submitted to the Empress and Emperor
of Austria. Ideas hurriedly sketched by Franklin in Paris
were fully discussed by Dumas in the Courrier de bas Rhin.
C. S. Pench, editor of Gazette de Utrecht, and Aremberg
and Sowden in Gazette de Leyde, were prompt to print any
bit of news or fragment of satire they received from
Passy.

It has been said that Franklin was the father of the labour
theory of value. In his first economic work, "The Nature
and Necessity of a Paper Currency," published when he
was twenty-three years of age, he has stated the theory fully
and carefully. Mr. W. H. Wetzel in an excellent study of
"Benjamin Franklin as an Economist" has shown, however,
that he was drawing freely upon Sir William Petty 's "Essay

POLITICAL AND ECONOMICAL WORKS 147

on Taxes and Contributions," which he must have read
while living in London in 1724.

Under the influence of Petty he wrote : "Suppose
one man employed to raise corn while another is digging
and refining silver. At the year's end, or at any other period
of time, the complete produce of corn and that of silver are
the natural price of each other ; and if one be twenty bushels
and the other twenty ounces, then an ounce of that silver is
worth the labor of raising a bushel of that corn. Now if
by the discovery of some nearer more easy or plentiful mines,
a man may get forty ounces of silver as easily as formerly
he did twenty, and the same labor is still required to raise
twenty bushels of corn, then two ounces of silver will be
worth no more than the same labor of raising one bushel of
corn and that bushel of corn will be as cheap at two ounces
as it was before at one, ctzteris paribus. " Forty years later,
confirmed in his early opinions by his intercourse with the
French physiocrats, he wrote, in the same strain, to Lord
Kames (February 21, 1769): "Food is always necessary to
all, and much the greatest part of the labor of mankind is
employed in raising provisions for the mouth. Is not this
kind of labor, then, the fittest to be the standard by which
to measure the values of all other labor, and consequently
of all other things whose value depends on the labor of
making or procuring them? May not even gold and silver
be thus valued? If the labor of the farmer, in producing a
bushel of wheat, be equal to the labor of the miner in pro-
ducing an ounce of silver, will not the bushel of wheat just
measure the value of the ounce of silver?"

Turgot has been described as "the first who tried to give
a scientific explanation of Natural Interest on capital."

148 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

Franklin, a half century before Turgot published his "Re-
flections," thought out the same "fructification theory." He
says that the "natural standard of usury" appears to be
"when the security is undoubted, at least the rent of so
much land as the money lent will buy. For it cannot be
expected, that any man will lend his money for less than it
would fetch -him in as rent if he laid it out in land, which
is the most secure property in the world. But if the security
is casual, then a kind of ensurance must be interwoven with
the simple natural interest, which may advance the usury
very conscionably to any height below the principal itself.
Now, among us, if the value of land is twenty years purchase,
five per cent is the just rate of interest for money lent on
undoubted security."

Under the influence of the physiocrats Franklin came to
believe that agriculture was the only legitimate source of
wealth ; and the most honourable occupation that of the tiller
of the soil. It is, he declares, "the most useful, the most
independent, and therefore the noblest of employments."
"The great business of the continent is agriculture." "The
agriculture and fisheries of the United States are the great
sources of our increasing wealth. He that puts a seed into
the earth is recompensed, perhaps, by receiving twenty out
of it, and he who draws a fish out of our water, draws up a
piece of silver." "I am one of that class of people that
feeds you all and at present is abused by you all. In short
I am a farmer." "Finally there seem to be but three ways
for a nation to acquire wealth. The first is by war, as the
Romans did, in plundering their conquered neighbours.
This is robbery. The second by commerce, which is generally
cheating. The third by agriculture, the only honest way,

POLITICAL AND ECONOMICAL WORKS 149

wherein man receives a real increase of the seed thrown into
the ground, in a kind of continual miracle, wrought by the
hand of God in his favour, as a reward for his innocent life
and his virtuous industry."

Agricultural labour, according to his way of thinking, fixes
the natural price of commodities. "His rate of interest is a
natural rate, determined by the rent of so much land as the
money lent will buy. Freedom of trade is based on a natural
right. Manufactures will naturally spring up in a country
as the country becomes ripe for them. His law of the in-
crease of population is based on the more fundamental law
in nature that numbers are constantly crowding subsistence.
The law of the adjustment of population among the differ-
ent countries of the world is a natural law based on the
comparative well being of mankind" (Wetzel). He says of
England, "This country is fond of manufactures beyond
their real value, for the true source of riches is husbandry.
Only agriculture is truly productive of new wealth."

Franklin was an unfaltering believer in free trade : "There
cannot be a stronger natural right than that of a man's making
the best profit he can of the natural produce of his lands. "
The latter day schools of free traders seem to have borrowed
much from him. In the midst of the recent fiscal contro-
versy in England, Franklin's "Wail of a Protected Manu-
facturer" was several times reprinted and widely circulated :

" Suppose a country, X, which has three industries — cloth, silk, iron
— and supplies three other countries — A, B, and C — therewith, wishes
to increase the sale and raise the price of cloth in favour of its cloth-
makers.

" To that end X prohibits the importation of cloth from A.

" In retaliation A prohibits silks coming from X.

ISO THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

" The workers in silk complain of the decline in their trade.
" To satisfy them X excludes silk from B.
•• B, to retaliate, shuts out iron and hardware against X.
" Then the makers of iron and hardware cry out that their trades are
being ruined.

" So X closes its doors against iron and hardware from C.
"In return C refuses to take cloth from X.
" Who is the gainer by all these prohibitions ?

" ANSWER

" All the four countries have diminished their common fund of the
enjoyments and conveniences of life."

For a particularly clear and cogent presentation of his
views upon free trade, the reader should refer to his exceed-
ingly interesting letter to Peter Collinson (April 30, 1764),
which is here for the first time printed: "In time perhaps
mankind may be wise enough to let trade take its own course,
find its own channels, and regulate its own Proportions, etc.
At present most of the Edicts of Princes, Placaerts, Laws and
Ordinances of Kingdoms and States for that purpose, prove
political blunders. The Advantages they produce not being
general for the Commonwealth; but particular, to private
persons or bodies in the State who procured them, and at
the expense of the rest of the people."

Franklin's ideal was a life of thrift, caution, comfort, and
husbandry. He regarded with grave apprehension the
growth of luxuries in America. "The eyes of other people, "
he exclaimed, "are the eyes that ruin us." In all seasons
he preached the virtues of eager industry and of "settled
low content. " He wrote to his favourite sister when he was
twenty years of age: "I have been thinking what would be
a suitable present for me to make, and for you to receive,

POLITICAL AND ECONOMICAL WORKS 151

as I hear you are grown a celebrated beauty. I had almost
determined on a tea-table; but when I consider that the
character of a good housewife was far preferable to that of
being only a pretty gentlewoman, I concluded to send you a
spinning-wheel, which I hope you will accept as a small token
of my sincere love and affection. " * In his last will and testa-
ment, signed by him two years before his death, the same
sentiment found expression in the following bequest: "The
King of France's picture set with four hundred and eight
diamonds, I give to my daughter, Sarah Bache, requesting
however, that she would not form any of those diamonds
into ornaments either for herself or daughters, and thereby
introduce or countenance the expensive, vain, and useless
fashion of wearing jewels in this country." His favourite
motto which he never wearied of repeating was "industry
and frugality. " I have noted seventy-three repetitions of it,
and there are many more. To Joseph Galloway (December
i, 1767) he wrote: "You appear to me to point out the true
cause of the general distress, viz. the late luxurious mode of
living introduced by a too great plenty of cash. It is indeed
amazing to consider, that we had a quantity sufficient before
the war began, and that the war added immensely to that
quantity, by the sums spent among us by the crown, and the
paper struck and issued in the province ; and now in so few
years all the money spent by the crown is gone away, and has
carried with it all the gold and silver we had before, leaving
us bare and empty, and at the same time more in debt to
England than ever we were. But I am inclined to think,
that the mere making more money will not mend our
circumstances, if we do not return to that industry and

1 To Jane Franklin, Philadelphia, January 6, 1726-27.

152 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

frugality which were the fundamental causes of our former
prosperity. "

Franklin's school of politics was the General Assembly,
the representative body of the province of Pennsylvania.
His political discipline was obtained, and his dexterity in
managing men and promoting public measures was devel-
oped, in the long and bitter feud between the Assembly and
the Proprietary. The vast estate of William Penn, compris-
ing about twenty-six million acres, paid to the king one-fifth
of the gold and silver which the province might yield. Over
it all Penn presided, as captain-general, invested with the
power of making war and administering justice. Upon his
death the property descended to his sons, John, Thomas,
and Richard; one-half going to the eldest son, John, who
died in 1746, leaving his share to Thomas. The Proprie-
taries, as they were called, during the fifteen years of acri-
monious controversy, in which Franklin played a principal
part, were therefore Thomas and Richard Penn, the former
being owner of three-fourths of the vast property. The
Proprietaries ruled by a deputy governor, an official who
lived a troubled life. He held his office by appointment
from his masters in England ; he derived his salary from the
Assembly. He received explicit "instructions" from the
Proprietaries, defining precisely the terms upon which he
could treat with the people. However he acted he was sure
to offend. If he obeyed his "instructions" he forfeited his
salary; if he ignored his "instructions" he sacrificed his
office. Money was imperatively needed for public works
and for the defence of the province. The Assembly would
not vote money unless the property of the Proprietaries
should be taxed on like terms with other estates. The gov-

POLITICAL AND ECONOMICAL WORKS 153

ernor, obedient to the inalterable "instructions," vetoed every
measure which did not exempt that property from taxation.
Even in times of great public peril the Penns refused to
permit the slightest infringement of their prerogative.

The Quakers, who represented two-fifths of the English
population, could not be induced to vote money for military
purposes. In their quarrel with the Proprietaries they desired
"that they [the Penns] would either exercise the Government
over us themselves, or according to the original Contract leave
themselves jutty represented by a person of integrity, candour
and a peaceable disposition for while their Deputy is of a
different disposition, and continues limited by Instructions
inconsistent with our Rights and Liberties we cannot expect
the Government will be conducted with Prudence or sup-
ported with satisfaction."

Every part of the civil government imposed some duty
upon Franklin. The governor put him into the commission
of the peace; the corporation of the city chose him of the
common council, and soon after an alderman; and the
citizens at large chose him a burgess to represent them in
the Assembly. Of most of these municipal activities no
record remains, and he has stinted his narrative of the trans-
actions of the Assembly. The Proprietaries were greatly
incensed at his constant efforts to secure equitable taxation
of all lands in the province, but he seems, after 1754, to
have made no attempt by direct or indirect means to win
their favour.

At the time of the Albany Conference, Franklin could
say of Thomas Penn, with modesty enough and likelihood
to lead it: "The Truth is, I have sought his Interest more
than his Favour; others perhaps have sought both, and ob-

154 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

tain'd at least the latter. But in my Opinion Great Men are
not always best serv'd by such as show on all Occasions a
blind Attachment to them." A year after Braddock's dis-
aster he said of the proprietor and his party: "If I have
offended them by acting right, I can, whenever I please, re-
verse their Displeasure by acting wrong. ... I have some
natural Dislike to Persons who so far love Money as to be
unjust for its sake: I despise their -meanness (as it appears
to me) in several late Instances, most cordially, and am
thankful that I never had any Connection with them, or
Occasion to ask or receive a Favour at their Hands. For
now I am persuaded that I do not oppose their Views from
Pique, Disappointment or personal Resentment, but, as I
think, from a Regard to the Publick Good. I may be mis-
taken in what is that Publick good, but at least I mean
well. And whenever they appear to me to have the Publick
Good in View, I think I would as readily serve them as if
they were my best Friends. I am sometimes asham'd for
them, when I see them differing with their People for Trifles,
and instead of being ador'd as they might be, like Demi Gods,
become the Objects of universal Hatred and Contempt. " *

Of Franklin's political writings "Plain Truth," "The
Plan of Union," "Letters to Shirley," " Militia Act, " "Dia-
logue of X. Y. Z.," "A Narrative of the late Massacre in
Lancaster County," "Cool Thoughts," and the "Preface
to Joseph Galloway's Speech, " belong to this period of war-
fare between the Assembly and the Proprietary.

"Plain Truth" was written in November, 1747, at a time
when Pennsylvania was threatened by French and Spanish
privateers. Ships were captured and plantations plundered,

1 To Peter Collinson, November 5, 1756.

POLITICAL AND ECONOMICAL WORKS 155

while the Quakers, true to their principles, refused to raise
troops or to contribute to the fortification of the river. The
wealthy merchants and leaders, opposed to the Quakers, re-
fused to put the county and city in a state of defence because
they would not lay out their money to protect the Quakers.
This was the situation that called forth the indignation of
Franklin: "And is our prospect better," he asked, after
discussing the invincible obstinacy of the Quakers, "if we
turn our Eyes to the Strength of the opposite Party, those
Great and rich Men, Merchants, and others, who are ever
railing at Quakers for doing what their Principles seem to
require, and what in Charity we ought to believe they think
their Duty, but take no Step themselves for the publick
Safety? They have so much Wealth and Influence, if they
would use it, that they might easily, by their Endeavours
and Example raise a military Spirit among us, make us fond,
studious of, and expert in, martial Discipline, and affect
every Thing that is necessary, under God, for our Protection.
But Envy seems to have taken Possession of their Hearts,
and to have eaten out and destroyed every generous, noble,
publick-spirited Sentiment. Rage at the Disappointment of
their little Schemes for Power, gnaws their Souls, and fills
them with such cordial Hatred to their Opponents, that
every Proposal, by the Execution of which those may re-
ceive benefit as well as themselves, is rejected with Indigna-
tion. 'What,' say they, 'shall we lay out our Money to
protect the Trade of Quakers? Shall we fight to defend
Quakers? No; let the Trade perish and the City burn;
let what will happen, we shall never lift a Finger to prevent
it.' Yet the Quakers have Conscience to plead for their
Resolution not to fight, which these Gentlemen have not. . . .

156 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

'Till of late, I could scarce believe the Story of him who re-
fused to pump in a sinking Ship, because one on board, whom
he hated, would be saved by it as well as himself. But such,
it seems, is the unhappiness of human Nature, that our
Passions, when violent, often are too hard for the united
force of Reason, Duty, and Religion."

The martial spirit rose in the colony with the reading of
this spirited pamphlet. Thousands of men voluntarily sub-
scribed themselves members of the association of defence,
formed themselves into companies and regiments, chose their
own officers, and met every week to be instructed in military
discipline.

In 1754 war with France being again apprehended a
Congress of Commissioners from the different colonies was,
by order of the Lords of Trade, to be assembled at Albany,
there to confer with the chiefs of the Six Nations, "con-
cerning the means of defending both their country and
ours." Governor Hamilton acquainted the House with the
order, and appointed Norris and Franklin to join Thomas
Perm and Secretary Peters, as commissioners to act for Penn-
sylvania. A rather full representation of the state of the
colonies was drawn up by them and sent home to the minis-
try with the proceedings. Franklin projected the Plan of
Union and drew it, but he was obliged, contrary to his judg-
ment, to alter many things in it, and he foresaw that the
colonies were unlikely to act upon it so as to agree to it.
He wrote to Collinson (December 29, 1754): "Everybody
cries, a Union is absolutely necessary; but when they come
to the manner and form of the union, their weak Noddles
are perfectly distracted. So if ever there be an Union it
must be formed at home by the Ministry and Parliament."

POLITICAL AND ECONOMICAL WORKS 157

The several colonies, intent upon their particular disputes,
neglected and obstructed the general interest. Again and
again Franklin reiterated his warning that no American war
could ever be well carried on without some plan of UNION.
The Assembly voted supplies of money for the conduct of
the war, and the governor refused to allow the property of
the Proprietary to be taxed, "except for a trifling part of his
estate; the quit-rents, located unimproved lands, Money at
interest, etc., being exempted by instructions to the governor. "
After the rejection of the Albany Plan of Union, Franklin
wrote to Collinson: "I am heartily sick of our present situ-
ation; I like neither the governor's conduct, nor the As-
sembly's ; and having some share in the Confidence of both,
I have endeavoured to reconcile 'em but in vain, and between
'em they make me very uneasy. I was chosen last Year in
my absence and was not at the Winter sitting when the
House sent home that Address to the King which I am
afraid was both ill-judged and ill-timed. If my being able
now and then to influence a good Measure did not keep up
my spirits I should be ready to swear never to serve again as
an Assembly Man, since both sides expect more from me
than they ought, and blame me sometimes for not doing
what I am not able to do, as well as for not preventing what
was not in my power to prevent. The Assembly ride res-
tive; and the Governor tho' he spurs with both heels, at
the same time reins-in with both hands, so that the Publick
Business can never move forward, and he remains like St.
George on the sign, always a Horseback and never going on.
Did you never hear this old catch?

" There was a mad man — he had a mad wife,
And three mad sons beside ;

1 58 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

And they all got — upon a mad horse,
And madly they did ride."

'Tis a compendium of our Proceedings and may save you
the Trouble of reading them." l

A few weeks after these words were written Braddock
met his terrible defeat near Fort Duquesne. Franklin had
been urgent in obtaining supplies for the king's troops. He
had been sent to Virginia to explain why the Assembly had
refused to vote money for the king's service, and as Post-
master-general to arrange a plan of communication between
General Braddock and the colonial governors.

Braddock's progress was impeded by want of wagons.
His officers had scoured Virginia and Maryland in vain in
search of wagons. Franklin undertook to provide the
requisite means of transportation. With his son he rode
to Lancaster and published an advertisement to the farmers
stating the terms upon which wagons and horses were to be
hired.

The Pennsylvanian farmers liked not the security that was
offered. Franklin has told the story in the Autobiography,
and has told how he partly overcame the suspicions and
prejudices of the farmers, and how he became personally
responsible for the wagons that were at last sent to Braddock,
but he has not told the sequel to that story.

General Braddock, delighted at the postmaster's success
by which his march northward was made possible, wrote to
the Secretary of State (June 5, 1755) : —

"Before I left Williamsburg, the Quartermaster-General
told me that I might depend upon twenty-five hundred horses
and two hundred wagons from Virginia and Maryland; but

iJo Peter Collinson, June 26, 1755.

POLITICAL AND ECONOMICAL WORKS 159

I had great reason to doubt it, having experienced the false
dealings of all in this country with whom I had been con-
cerned. Hence, before my departure from Frederic, I
agreed with Mr. Benjamin Franklin, postmaster in Penn-
sylvania, who has great credit in that province, to have one
hundred and fifty wagons, and the necessary number of
horses. This he accomplished with promptitude and fidel-
ity, and it is almost the only instance of address and fidelity
which I have seen in all these provinces."

Franklin became personally responsible for the payment
for horses, wagons, and provisions. He advanced for the
service, of his own, about thirteen hundred pounds. As
soon as the disaster to Braddock was known he was called
upon for the valuation which he had given bonds to pay.
William Shirley wrote from Oswego (September 17, 1755),
to thank him for his patriotic and effective zeal. He said:
"As to the affair of the wagons and horses, which you en-
gaged for the use of the late General Braddock' s army, I
think it of the utmost consequence that all such engagements
or contracts for the public service should be most punctually
complied with ; and, had I known the circumstances of this,
I should before now have enabled you to make good those
you entered into, by the late General's order, for the expedi-
tion to the Ohio ; not only because common justice demands
it, but that such public spirited services deserve the highest
encouragement. I now write to Governor Morris to appoint
three good men to liquidate and adjust those accounts, and
shall direct Mr. Johnson, the paymaster, immediately to
pay what they report to be due for that service, according to
the enclosed warrant.

" Though I am at present engaged in a great hurry of

160 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

business, being to move from hence in a very few days for
Niagara, I cannot conclude without assuring you, that I
have the highest sense of your public services in general,
and particularly that of engaging those wagons without
which General Braddock could not have proceeded."

Fortunately for Franklin, Braddock had returned to him
the major part of the money he had advanced, but the re-
mainder was never paid. The accounts were examined
and certified to be correct, but Lord Loudoun, who suc-
ceeded General Shirley, declined to give an order upon the
paymaster for the amount, declaring that he did not wish to
mix his accounts with those of his predecessors. He recom-
mended Franklin to apply to the Treasury in London, where,
doubtless, payment would promptly be made. Not a penny
was ever received by Franklin from the Treasury.

The events of that year were chronicled in a pamphlet
entitled a "Brief View of the Conduct of Pennsylvania for
the Year 1755." It was believed in England to be written
by William Smith, but Franklin wrote to Collinson : " 'Tis
generally supposed to be the Governor's (with some Help
from one or two others) as his Messages are fill'd with the
same Sentiments and almost the same Expressions. He is,
I think, the rashest and most indiscreet Governor that I have
known, and will do more Mischief to the Proprietaries Interest
than Good, and make them more Enemies than Friends." *

The Assembly showed no inclination to reply to the
" Brief View." 2 The design evidently was to get the Quakers

1 To Peter Collinson, August 27, 1755.

2 " A Brief State of the Province of Pennsylvania. In a Letter from a Gen-
tleman who has resided many years in Pennsylvania to his Friend in London."
London, 1756 (written December, 1754). "A Brief View of the Conduct
of Pennsylvania, for the year 1755. In a Second Letter to a Friend in Lon-
don." London, 1756.

POLITICAL AND ECONOMICAL WORKS 161

out of the Assembly on the pretence that they could not or
would not do the duty of Assemblymen in defending the
country. "If the end," said Franklin, "was simply to get
the Country defended by Grants of Money the Quakers
have now shown that they can give and dispose of Money
for that purpose as freely as any People. If this does not
give Satisfaction, the Pique against them must seem to be
personal and private and not formed on Views for the Publick
good. I know the Quakers now think it their Duty, when
chosen, to consider themselves as Representatives of the
Whole People, and not of their own Sect only ; they consider
the public Money as raised from and belonging to the
Whole Publick, and not to their Sect only, and therefore
tho' they can neither bear Arms themselves nor compel
others to do it, yet very lately when our Frontier Inhabitants
who are chiefly Presbyterians or Churchmen, thought them-
selves in Danger, and the Poor among them were unable to
provide Arms, and petitioned the House, a Sum was voted
for these purposes, and put into the Hands of a Committee
to procure and supply them. ... To me it seems that if
Quakerism (as to the matter of Defence) be excluded the
House, there is no Necessity to exclude Quakers, who in
other Respects make good and useful Members. I am
supposed to have had a principal Share in prevailing with
the House to make their late generous Grants to Braddock
and Shirley, and the Bill for giving £50,000, and the Gov-
ernor and his few Friends are angry with me for disappoint-
ing them by that Means of a fresh Accusation against the
Quakers." 1
Intense feeling was engendered among the partisans of

1 To Collinson, August 27, 1755.
VOL. I — M

1 62 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

the Proprietary and the adherents of the Assembly. Mali-
cious falsehoods were circulated concerning Franklin. Those
who caressed him, to use his own words, a few months before,
were now endeavouring to defame him everywhere by every
base act. Such was his abhorrence of this kind of alterca-
tion that he was sorely tempted to remove to Connecticut.
The far-away echo of these slanders came to him from his
friends abroad. Many of them were but trifling and ludi-
crous vapou rings of envy and impotent malice. He was
accused of riding abroad surrounded by soldiers with drawn
swords, a romance which grew out of the circumstance that
upon his departure for Virginia, twenty officers of his regi-
ment with about thirty grenadiers accompanied him from
his house to the ferry, about three miles from town, and
took it in their heads to ride about two hundred yards with
their swords drawn. "This was the only Instance of the
Kind, for tho' a greater Number met me at my Return,
they did not ride with drawn Swords, having been told that
Ceremony was improper unless to compliment some Person
of great Distinction. I who am totally ignorant of Military
Ceremonies, and above all things averse to making Show
and Parade, or doing any useless Thing that can serve only
to excite Envy or provoke Malice, suffer'd at the Time much
more Pain than I enjoy'd Pleasure and have never since
given an Opportunity for any thing of the Sort." 1

Terrible as was the disaster that had overtaken Brad-
dock, and in the midst of the general apprehension of an
invasion of the province, the Assembly and the governor
maintained their hostile and unyielding attitude. "The
shocking news of the strange, unprecedented and ignomini-

1 To Collinson, November 5, 1756.

POLITICAL AND ECONOMICAL WORKS 163

ous defeat of Braddock," said the younger Franklin, "had
no more effect upon Governor Morris than the miracles of
Moses had on the heart of Pharaoh." In the autumn the
war was resumed. The Indians scalped white families
within seventy-five miles of Philadelphia. The Penns,
alarmed by an indignant public sentiment in England, or-
dered £5000 to be added in their name to any sum that
might be voted by the Assembly for defence. The din of
controversy ceased for a time. The Assembly voted £60,000,
exempting, under protest, the estates of the Proprietaries,
and appointed Franklin one of the seven commissioners to
expend it.

A militia bill prepared by Franklin was hurriedly adopted.
Many, however, refused to enlist because Quakers were
exempted from bearing arms. To enlighten the public
mind with regard to the Militia Act, and to shame the recal-
citrant into compliance with its terms, he wrote for the
Pennsylvania Gazette, "A Dialogue between X. Y. & Z.
concerning the present State of Affairs in Pennsylvania."
The article had great effect, and its concluding appeal was
taken to heart by many readers: "O my friends, let us on
this occasion cast from us all these little party views, and
consider ourselves as Englishmen and Pennsylvanians. Let
us think only of the service of our King, the honour and
safety of our country, and vengeance on its murdering
enemies. If good be done, what imports it by whom 'tis
done? The glory of serving and saving others is superior
to the advantage of being served or secured. Let us reso-
lutely and generously unite in our country's cause (in which
to die is the sweetest of all deaths), and may the God of
Armies bless our honest endeavours."

1 64 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

The remainder of Franklin's political pamphlets and ad-
dresses occasioned by the proprietary quarrel and the events
of Pennsylvanian history lie beyond the period at which
Franklin ceased to tell the story of his life, and they may
therefore more appropriately be described in the terminal
essay upon the later life of Franklin in the tenth volume of
this edition.

I must in this place, however, refer to the inclu-
sion in Mr. Bigelow's fifth edition of the "Life of Benja-
min Franklin," of "A Speech intended to have been spoken
on the Bill for Altering the Charters of the Colony of the
Massachusetts Bay." This speech has always been attrib-
uted to Jonathan Shipley, the Bishop of St. Asaph. Mr.
Bigelow is convinced that Franklin was really the author of
it. He attributes it to him on the strength of the form and
matter of the document, which are such that he believes "no
man in England, or elsewhere in 1774, could have written
this discourse but Benjamin Franklin." He finds nothing
in the early editions of the speech to give any intimation of
its parentage. "It does not state, but seems to deliberately
avoid stating who it was that 'intended' that it should be
spoken on that occasion."

With extreme reluctance I find it impossible to accept
Mr. Bigelow's conclusions. He has lived for many years
in close companionship with the works of Franklin. He
knows more about their illustrious author than any living
scholar. In this instance, however, there are countervailing
circumstances that seem to me to be fatal to his contention.
Bishop Shipley and Benjamin Franklin were intimate friends,
who lived together upon terms of extremest confidence and

^

affection. The bishop looked upon the political situation

POLITICAL AND ECONOMICAL WORKS 165

through the spectacles of Franklin, and he had the cause of
his friend and of his friend's country so much at heart that
to aid it he was willing to sacrifice his personal advantage
and profit. It is not surprising therefore that out of the
correspondence and conversation of these two friends, so
sympathetic and patriotic, should come from the lesser man
works which expressed the convictions and echoed the
manner of the greater one. Until the present time no doubt
as to the authorship of the speech has arisen. It has tradi-
tionally been accepted as the work of the Bishop of St. Asaph.
In the collection of Franklin papers in The American Philo-
sophical Society is a list of pamphlets relating to America
written between 1769 and 1775. And on this list, in Frank-
lin's handwriting, appears "Speech intended to be delivered
by the Bishop of St. Asaph in the House of Lords."

When news reached Franklin that his dearest friend in
Great Britain was dead, he wrote a tender and affectionate
letter of condolence to the daughter, Miss Catherine Louisa
Shipley (April 27, 1789): "That excellent man has then
left us ! His departure is a loss, not to his family and friends
only, but to his nation, and to the world ; for he was intent
on doing good, had wisdom to devise the means, and talents
to promote them. His ' Sermon before the Society for Propa-
gating the Gospel,' and his 'Speech intended to have been
spoken' are proofs of his ability as well as his humanity.
Had his counsels in those pieces been attended to by the min-
isters, how much bloodshed might have been prevented, and
how much expense and disgrace to the nation avoided."

I cannot believe that, if the facts were as Mr. Bigelow
imagines, Franklin, in writing to assuage a daughter's grief,
would have thus referred in terms of high eulogy to a work

1 66 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

of his own put forth to the world under the other's name.
His praise would have been an idle mockery and his pro-
fessions of sympathy a shallow pretence.

SATIRES AND BAGATELLES

That species of drollery which is called American humour,
first assumed in "Poor Richard's Almanac," and in the col-
umns of the Pennsylvania Gazette, the literary form by which
it has since been known. Humour was native and sponta-
neous with Franklin. The moment after he had seen the
serious side of anything he saw the comic side of it. His
juvenile contributions to the New England Courant abound
with rollicking fun. Upon his first visit to England he says
that he was esteemed by his fellow-journeymen printers "a
pretty good Riggite, that is a jocular verbal satirist." It is
said that Jefferson explained that Franklin was not asked to
write the Declaration of Independence because he could not
have refrained from putting a joke into it. Like Talley-
rand, he found nonsense singularly refreshing, and said that
mirth and pleasantry "have a secret charm in them to allay
the heats and tumours of our spirits and to make a man
forget his restless resentments."

It is surprising that Franklin's editors have never re-
printed the Dogood papers. There can be no doubt about
their authorship. They bear the unmistakable Franklin
stamp. And Franklin himself mentions them in the mem-
oranda which he jotted down for his guidance when about
to begin the Autobiography. They have considerable
literary merit; they are full of interest; and they abound
in humour and satire. Franklin was but sixteen years old .

SATIRES AND BAGATELLES 167

when he commenced his literary career with the first of
these anonymous papers, stealthily written, and surrepti-
tiously and timidly thrust under the door of his brother's
printing house. The fourteen Dogood papers, here printed
for the first time since they were consigned to the dusty
sepulchre of the New England Courant, are never dull, and
they reveal with remarkable completeness the mind of the
precocious, restless, inquisitive boy. Mrs. Dogood writes
"of the lamentable Condition of Widows," and of those
"penitent Mortals of the Fair Sex that are like to be punished
with their Virginity until old Age for the Pride and Insolence
of their Youth." In one letter is "a Receipt to make a
New England Funeral Elegy," in another a diatribe upon
"Pride and Hoop Petticoats," and in another a sharp satire
upon Harvard College.

The Pennsylvania Gazette was published by Franklin
from 1729 to 1757, and in its earlier years at least was prac-
tically written by him from beginning to end. Its paragraphs
are full of extravagance, recklessness, and occasional irrev-
erence. A correspondent is made to write: "I am about
courting a girl I have had but little acquaintance with;
how shall I come to a knowledge of her faults, and whether
she has the virtues I imagine she has?" "Commend her
among her female acquaintance" is the unexpected answer.

Another paragraph runs: "We hear from Birmingham,
in Warwickshire, that a certain Tradesman's Wife of that
Place dying on a Tuesday, her Husband buried on the Wed-
nesday, married again on the Thursday, his new Wife was
brought to bed on the Friday, and he hanged himself on the
Saturday. A fine -week's work truly!"

Here is a bit of local news as reported by Franklin: "An

1 63 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

unhappy man, one Sturgis, upon some difference with his
wife, determined to drown himself in the river, and she
(kind wife) went with him, it seems, to see it faithfully per-
formed, and accordingly stood by silent and unconcerned
during the whole transaction: He jumped in near Carpen-
ter's Wharf, but was timely taken out again, before what he
came about was thoroughly effected, so that they were both
obliged to return home as they came, and put up for that
time with the disappointment."

He would sometimes write a fictitious letter to the news-
paper, and follow it with several imaginary replies in the
next issue. Upon one occasion he prints : —

"MR. FRANKLIN:

Pray let the prettiest Creature in this Place know (by
publishing this), that if it was not for her Affectation she
would be absolutely irresistible."

Next week (November 27, 1735) appeared the following
replies : —

"MR. FRANKLIN:

I cannot conceive who your Correspondent means by 'the
prettiest creature' in this Place; but I can assure either him
or her, that she who is truly so, has no Affectation at all."

"Sm, Since your last Week's Paper I have look'd in my
Glass a thousand Times, I believe, in one way; and if it
was not for the Charge of Affectation I might, without Par-
tiality believe myself the Person meant."

"MR. FRANKLIN: I must own that several have told
me, I am the prettiest Creature in this Place; but I believe

SATIRES AND BAGATELLES 169

I shou'd not have been tax'd with Affectation if I cou'd have
thought as well of them as they do of themselves."

"SiR: Your sex calls me pretty; my own affected. Is
it from Judgment in the one or Envy in the other?"

"MR. FRANKLIN: They that call me affected are greatly
Mistaken; for I don't know that I ever refus'd a kiss to any
Body but a Fool."

"FRIEND FRANKLIN: I am not at all displeased at being
charged with Affectation. Thou know'st the vain People
call Decency of Behaviour by that Name."

A peruke maker in Second Street, Philadelphia, adver-
tised that he would "leave off the shaving business after
the 22d of August next." Franklin's comment was that
barbers were peculiarly fitted for politics, for they were adept
shavers and trimmers, "which will naturally lead us to con-
sider the near relation which subsists between shaving, trim-
ming and politics." He concludes with congratulating the
people upon the barber's retirement from business, saying,
"I am of opinion that all possible encouragement ought to
be given to Examples of this kind." The indignant adver-
tiser wrote to the publisher for an explanation of his eccentric
comment, whereupon Franklin replied that he had no ani-
mosity against the person whose advertisement he had made
the topic of his paper, and that his article should be con-
demned he could only impute to a "Want of taste and relish
for pieces of that force and beauty which none but a Univer-
sity bred gentleman can produce."

He does not spare himself when he is in the mood for
raillery. "On Thursday last," he says in the Gazette, "a

170 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

certain P r ('tis not customary to give names at length

on these occasions) walking carefully in clean clothes over
some barrels of tar on Carpenter's Wharf, the head of one
of them unluckily gave way, and let a leg of him in above
the knee. Whether he was upon the Catch at that time, we
cannot say, but 'tis certain he caught a Tar-tar. 'Twas
observed he sprang out again right briskly, verifying the
common saying, As nimble as a Bee in a Tar barrel. You
must know there are several sorts of bees: 'tis true he was
no honey bee, nor yet a humble bee : but a Boo-Bee he may
be allowed to be, namely B. F."

He inserted in the Gazette of June 30, 1737, the following
advertisement' of] his wife's lost property: "Taken out of
a Pew in the Church some months since, a Common- Prayer
Book, bound in Red, gilt, and letter'd D. F. on each corner.
The Person who took it is desir'd to open it, and read the
Eighth Commandment, and afterwards return it into the
same Pew again; upon which no further Notice will be
taken."

Here is a gibe at a rival newspaper : —

"MR. FRANKLIN: —

I am the Author of a Copy of Verses in the last Mercury.
It was my real Intention to appear open, and not basely
with my Vizard on, attack a Man who had fairly unmasked.
Accordingly I subscribed my Name at full Length, in my

Manuscript sent to my Brother B d; but he, for some

incomprehensible Reason, inserted the two initial Letters
only, viz. B. L. 'Tis true, every Syllable of the Perform-
ance discovers me to be the Author; but as I meet with
much Censure on the Occasion, I request you to inform

SATIRES AND BAGATELLES 171

the Publick, that I did not desire my name should be con-
ceal'd ; and that the remaining Letters are, O, C, K, H, E,
A, D."

Unfortunately, it is impossible without offence to quote
many of his briefer paragraphs. We may track him
through the thirty years of the Gazette by the smudgy trail
he leaves behind him. His humour is coarse and his mood
of mind Rabelaisian. His "salt imagination" delights in
greasy jests and tales of bawdry. He came of a grimy race
of hard-handed blacksmiths, and they had set their mark
on him. With all his astonishing quickness and acute-
ness of intellect and his marvellous faculty of adaptation, he
remained to the end of life the proletarian, taking an unclean
pleasure in rude speech and coarse innuendo. He out-
Smolletts Smollett in his letters to young women at home
and experienced matrons abroad. Among the manuscripts
in the Library of Congress, and in the columns of his news-
paper and the introductions to "Poor Richard," are pro-
ductions of his pen, the printing of which would not be tol-
erated by the public sentiment of the present age. It is no
use blinking the fact that Franklin's animal instincts and
passions were strong and rank, that they led him to the com-
mission of many deplorable errata, in his life, and that the
taint of an irredeemable vulgarity is upon much of his con-
duct. As is said of Angelo in the play, "I am sorry, one so
learned and so wise, should slip so grossly."

The best of the essays in the Gazette I have reprinted,
including six that have not previously been included in the
collected works. "The Essays on Government" which were
published by Sparks and Bigelow, are acknowledged in a

172 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

later issue of the Gazette to have been written by John
Webbe.

His fondness for practical joking led him to compose
certain canards which to his great amusement deceived
many careful readers. Such were the famous "Speech of
Polly Baker," "Edict of the King of Prussia," "Supplement
to the Boston Chronicle," "Parable against Persecution," "A
Paraphrase of a Chapter of Job," "On the Means of dis-
posing the Enemy to Peace." Jefferson tells the story of
the Abbe" Raynal's credulity in accepting the trial of Polly
Baker as sober history. "The Doctor and Silas Deane," he
says, " were in conversation one day at Passy on the numerous
errors in the Abbess 'Histoire des deux Indes,' when he
happened to step in. After the usual salutations, Silas
Deane said to him, 'The Doctor and myself, Abbe", were just
speaking of the errors of fact into which you have been led
in your history.' 'Oh, no, Sir,' said the Abbe", 'that is im-
possible. I took the greatest care not to insert a single fact
for which I had not the most unquestionable authority.'
'Why,' says Deane, 'there is the story of Polly Baker and
the eloquent apology you have put into her mouth, when
brought before a court of Massachusetts to suffer punish-
ment under a law, which you cite, for having had a bastard.
I know there never was such a law in Massachusetts.' 'Be
assured,' said the Abbe", 'you are mistaken, and that that is
a true story. I do not immediately recollect indeed the
particular information on which I quote it, but I am certain
that I had for it unquestionable authority.' Doctor Frank-
lin, who had been for some time shaking with restrained
laughter at the Abba's confidence in his authority for that
tale, said, 'I will tell you, Abbe", the origin of that story.

SATIRES AND BAGATELLES 173

When I was a printer and editor of a newspaper, we were
sometimes slack of news, and to amuse our customers, I
used to fill up our vacant columns with anecdotes, and
fables and fancies of my own, and this of Polly Baker is a
story of my own making, on one of those occasions.' The
Abbe", without the least disconcert, exclaimed with a laugh,
' Oh, very well, Doctor, I had rather relate your stories than
other men's truths.'"1

A similar experience Franklin enjoyed when "An Edict
of the King of Prussia" was published. He wrote to his
son (October 6, 1773) : "What made it the more noticed here
was, that people in reading it were, as the phrase is, taken in,
till they had got half through it, and imagined it a real edict,
to which mistake I suppose the King of Prussia's character
must have contributed. I was down at Lord Le Despen-
cer's when the post brought that day's papers. Mr. White-
head was there, too (Paul Whitehead the author of
'Manners'), who runs early through all the papers, and tells
the company what he finds remarkable. He had them in
another room, and we were chatting in the breakfast parlour,
when he came running into us, out of breath, with the paper
in his hand. 'Here !' says he, 'here's news for ye ! Here's
the King of Prussia, claiming a right to this kingdom !' All
stared, and I as much as anybody, and he went on to read it.
When he had read two or three paragraphs, a gentleman
present said, ' Damn his impudence, I dare say we shall hear
by next post, that he is upon his march with one hundred

1 "The Writings of Thomas Jefferson," Vol. X, p. 118 (note).

Balzac says that Franklin confessed the authorship of this canard in
M. Neckar's salon.

I have reprinted " The Trial of Polly Baker," as it is, in contempt of
question, his hand. But I have searched in vain for it in the Gazette. — ED.

174 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

thousand men to back this.' Whitehead, who is very
shrewd, soon after began to smoke it, and, looking in my face,
said, ' I'll be hanged if this is not some of your American
jokes upon us ! ' The reading went on, and ended with
abundance of laughing, and a general verdict that it was
a fair hit; and the piece was cut out of the paper and
preserved in my Lord's collection."

This keen and severe satire was first published in the
Public Advertiser and the edition was quickly exhausted.
It was reprinted in the Chronicle and created a genuine sen-
sation. Lord Mansfield said of it, that "it was very able
and very artful indeed." Richard Bache wrote to Franklin
(January i, 1774) : "I am gratified to have it under your own
hand that the Edict was of your writing ... it was con-
sidered to be yours before and had been published as a thing
much admired in most of our papers. . . . You are
charged likewise with being the author of 'The Method to
make a little State of a great one.' I hope the Public are
not mistaken in this, for I think it a piece of great merit.
Your friend General Lee, who has been here sometime and
who thinks himself well acquainted with your style, is the
only man in this place that thinks it is not yours."

Upon his private press at Passy, Franklin printed a pre-
tended "Supplement to the Boston Independent Chronicle."
In typography, style, advertisements, and all things it simu-
lated exactly the appearance of a Boston newspaper. The
barbarities committed by the Indian allies of Great Britain
suggested this savage piece of satire, which rises to the height
of Swift. After a ghastly invoice of eight packages contain-
ing a thousand scalps, alleged to have been taken by the
Seneca Indians in English pay, and "cured, dried, hooped,

SATIRES AND BAGATELLES 175

and painted with all the Indian triumphal marks," in order
to be transmitted to England, the article quotes an imagi-
nary letter from an Indian chief to Governor Haldimand.
"Father, we wish you to send these scalps over the water to
the great King, that he may regard them and be refreshed;
and that he may see our faithfulness in destroying his ene-
mies, and be convinced that his presents have not been made
to ungrateful people." Franklin sent copies of the "Supple-
ment" to Dumas in Holland, saying: "Enclosed I send you
a few copies of a paper that places in a striking light the
English barbarities in America, particularly those com-
mitted by the savages at their instigation. The form may
perhaps not be genuine but the substance is truth.1 . . .
Make any use of them you may think proper to shame your
Anglomanes, but do not let it be known through whose
hand they came." In the second edition, from which cer-
tain fictitious advertisements which had appeared in the
first edition were omitted, he inserted a pretended letter
from John Paul Jones to Sir Joseph Yorke, Ambassador to
the States- General of the United Provinces. The states-
man had called the captain "a pirate." Jones is made to
reply: "A Pirate is defined to be hostis humani generis (an
enemy to all mankind). It happens, sir, that I am an enemy
to no part of mankind, except your nation, the English;
which nation, at the same time comes much more within the
definition; being actually an enemy to, and at war with,
one whole quarter of the world, America, considerable

1 Gates called Burgoyne " the polite Macaroni," because he paid for scalps.
A Philadelphia newspaper in 1887 treated this fine satire seriously, and said
that the letter was found in the baggage of General Burgoyne after his
surrender. — ED.

176 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

part of Asia and Africa, a great part of Europe, and in a
fair way of being at war with the rest." After a brief, vivid,
and terrible description of the war of rapine waging against
America, and of the malice, mischief, and murder committed
by king and Parliaments, he concludes: "One is provoked
by enormous wickedness: but one is ashamed and humili-
ated at the view of human baseness. It afflicts me there-
fore to see a gentleman of Sir Joseph Yorke's education and
talents, for the sake of a red riband and a paltry stipend,
mean enough to style such a monster his master, wear his
livery, and hold himself ready at his command even to cut
the throats of fellow subjects. This makes it impossible
for me to end my letter with the civility of a compliment,
and obliges me to subscribe myself, simply,

"JOHN PAUL JONES,
"whom you are pleased to style a pirate."

Europe accepted the "Supplement" as genuine, and
shuddered at the horrors of the American fratricidal war.
Horace Walpole, at least, was not deceived. He wrote to
the Countess of Ossory: "Have you seen in the papers an
excellent letter of Paul Jones to Sir Joseph Yorke? Elle
nous dit bien des •verittst I doubt poor Sir Joseph cannot
answer them ! Dr. Franklin himself, I should think, was the
author. It is certainly written by a first-rate pen, and not
by a common man-of-war."

A very similar piece was a letter purporting to emanate
from a petty German prince and to be addressed to his
officer in command in America. It contains congratula-
tions upon the large number of Hessians slain at Trenton,
and is written in a spirit of ferocious merriment at the
prospect of substantial financial returns for the lives of the
wretched mercenaries. "My trip to Italy, which has cost
me enormously, makes it desirable that there should be a
great mortality among them. You will therefore promise
promotion to all who expose themselves; you will exhort to
seek glory in the midst of dangers; you will say to Major
Maundorfl that I am not at all content with his saving the
345 men who escaped the massacre at Trenton. Through
the whole campaign he has not had ten men killed in con-
sequence of his orders. Finally let it be your principal ob-
ject to prolong the war and avoid a decisive engagement on
either side, for I have made arrangements for a grand Italian
opera, and I do not wish to be obliged to give it up."

One of the subtlest and severest of Franklin's satires was
veiled under the title "Proposed New Version of the Bible."
He fancied that the reading of "that excellent book" had
been neglected because of its obsolete style, and therefore
thought it would be well to procure a new version in which,
while preserving the sense, the turn of phrase and manner
of expression should be modern. As a sample of the kind
of version he would recommend he modernized six verses of
the first chapter of the Book of Job, and with marvellous
dexterity converted the famous passage into a shrewd satire
upon regal government.

Verses 6-n : "And it being levee day in heaven, all God's
nobility came to court, to present themselves before him;
and Satan also appeared in the circle, as one of the ministry.

"And God said to Satan, You have been some time
absent ; where were you ? And Satan answered, I have been
at my country seat, and in different places visiting my friends.

"And God said, Well, what think you of Lord Job?

VOL. I — N

178 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

You see he is my best friend, a perfectly honest man, full of
respect for me, and avoiding everything that might offend
me.

"And Satan answered, Does your Majesty imagine that
his good conduct is the effect of mere personal attachment
and affection?

"Have you not protected him, and heaped your benefits
upon him till he is grown enormously rich?

"Try him; — only withdraw your favour, turn him out of
his places, and withhold his pensions and you will soon find
him in the opposition."

It seems almost incredible that the point of this prodi-
gious satire should have been missed by any thoughtful
reader ; yet true it is that one of the most sagacious of recent
critics and one of the most learned of living historians have
been completely deceived by it.

Matthew Arnold commented upon it: "I remember the
relief with which, after long feeling the sway of Franklin's
imperturbable common sense, I came upon a project of his
for a new version of the Book of Job, to replace the old ver-
sion, the style of which, says Franklin, has become obsolete
and thence less agreeable. 'I give,' he continues, 'a few
verses, which may serve as a sample of the kind of version I
would recommend.' We all recollect the famous verse in
our translation : ' Then Satan answered the Lord, and said,
Doth Job fear God for nought?' Franklin makes this,
'Does your Majesty imagine that Job's good conduct is the
effect of mere personal attachment and affection?' I well
remember how when first I read that I drew a deep breath
of relief, and said to myself, 'After all, there is a stretch of
humanity beyond Franklin's victorious good sense.' The

SATIRES AND BAGATELLES 179

lover of literary curiosities may be almost sorry that Frank-
lin's proposal never got any further." We may fancy the
Olympian laughter with which Franklin would have greeted
the extraordinary judgment of this "high-gravel blind"
critic.

He delighted in this kind of mystification. He set Miss
Shipley searching the Bible in vain to find where Franklin
read that Methusalah slept in the open air.1

He wrote, in imitation of Scriptural language, "A Parable
against Persecution," which he committed to memory, and
called it " Genesis LI," and read it by heart out of his Bible,
"obtaining the remarks of the Scripturians upon it, which
were sometimes very diverting."

Among the papers of William Parsons, surveyor-general
of Pennsylvania, the following account of the parable is
found : —

"Dr Franklin in England about 1755 Supporting Dr
Locks Treatise book on Toleration was much dificuelted
in Argument with Lady Jane, a maiden Sister to the Earl
of Thanet who opposed the doctrine, after several fruitless
Attemps the Doct told Lady Jane that if she would con-
sult her Bible she would find 'Locks' Doctrine fully supported
upon which Lady Jane with an air of triumph Arrose from
he chair took from beneath the cussion a large Bible & The
D! received it at her hand Saying you will find it in the 5ist
chapter of genesis And Abraham was standing at the Door
of his Tent looking by the way of the Wilderness and be-
hold a Man came leaning on his Staff, and Abr. said unto
the Man Stranger turn in, and tarry with me this Night,

1 " The Art of procuring pleasant Dreams," and see Miss Shipley's letter to
Franklin, November 13, 1784.

i8o THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

and the Man answered and said unto Abr. Nay! but I
will tarry under this Oak. And Abr. press'd him & he turned
in. And Abr. sat Meet before him, but the man called not
on the Lord to Bless it ; wherefore Abraham was wroth ; &
turned him out by the Way whence he came, Now at Mid-
night the Lord called unto Abr. & Abraham said here am I
Lord — and the Lord said unto him where is the Stranger?
Ab. answered and said unto the Lord : he would not call on
thy Name to bless his Meet; wherefore I turned him out
with blows. And the Lord said unto Abr. Have I not born
with him this 100 and 60 and 8 years, and couldest not
thou, who art thyself a Sinner bear with him one Night."

The charge of plagiarism was occasionally brought against
Franklin, and when it was found that a similar parable
existed in Jeremy Taylor's "Liberty of Prophesying" the
cry of "thief" was immediately raised and has not yet en-
tirely died away. Nothing can be clearer, however, than that
Franklin laid no claim to originality in this playful piece and
that he never intended or sanctioned its publication. He
had printed several copies upon loose leaves for circulation
among his friends. Lord Kames published it, from one of
these slight copies, in his "Sketches of the History of Man,"
introducing it with the words: "It was communicated to
me by Dr. Franklin of Philadelphia, a man who makes a
great figure in the learned world ; and who would make a
still greater figure for benevolence and candor, were virtue
as much regarded in this declining age as knowledge." The
British Repository (May, 1788) first brought the charge of
plagiarism, and in the next number of that periodical Mr.
Vaughan defended Franklin, saying: "This great man who
at the same time that he was desirous of disseminating an

SATIRES AND BAGATELLES 181

amiable sentiment, was an extreme lover of pleasantry, often
endeavoured to put off the parable in question upon his
acquaintance, as a portion of Scripture, and probably
thought this one of the most successful modes of circulating
its moral. This object would certainly have been de-
feated had he prefixed to the printed copies of the Parable,
which he was fond of dispersing, an intimation of its author.
He therefore gave no name whatever to it, much less his own.
And often as I have heard of his amusing himself on this
occasion, I never could learn that he ascribed to himself the
merit of the invention. His good humour constantly led
him into a train of amusing stories concerning the persons,
who had mistaken it for Scripture (for he had bound it up
as a leaf in his Bible, the better to impose upon them) which
perhaps, made the point of authorship forgotten." Franklin
wrote to Vaughan (November 2, 1789): "The truth is, as I
think you observe, that I never published that Chapter,
and never claimed more credit from it, than what related to
the style, and the addition of the concluding threatening and
promise. The publishing of it by Lord Kames without my
consent, deprived me of a good deal of amusement." *

Another of his parables in Scriptural language related to
brotherly love. Reuben bought an ax of the Ishmaelite
merchants, which he prized highly, for there was none in
his father's house. Simeon, Levi, and Judah came to him
in turn to borrow it, but he refused them, and they sent a
messenger after the Ishmaelites with money and bought for
themselves each an ax. Now it came to pass that Reuben

1 There has been a learned discussion of the origin of this parable (which
Jeremy Taylor said he found in " the Jews' books "), which the curious may
read in Sparks's "Franklin," Vol. II, p. 118.

1 82 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

hewed timber on the bank of the river, and his ax fell therein,
and he could by no means find it. He came to Simeon and
sought to borrow his ax, but Simeon refused. He went to
Levi, who consented but reproached him so that Reuben
turned away with grief and shame, whereupon Judah said,
"Lo, have I not an ax that will serve both thee and me?
Take it, I pray thee, and use it as thine own."

"And Reuben fell on his neck and kissed him, with tears,
saying, Thy kindness is great, but thy goodness in for-
giving me is greater. Thou art indeed my brother, and
whilst I live, will I surely love thee.

"And Judah said, Let us also love our other brethren;
behold, are we not all of one blood?"

Two other Scriptural writings will be found in this edition :
Franklin's version of the Lord's Prayer, with his reasons for
the changes made in the language, and his "Preface to an
Abridgment of the Book of Common Prayer."

Franklin's pen was not entirely occupied throughout the
Revolutionary epoch with addresses and memorials impor-
tuning the French Government for loans and alliance, and
informing the Continental Congress of the progress of affairs
in Europe. He found time to compose for the amusement
of his friends, in whose cheerful society he sought occasional
diversion, certain little essays upon subjects far removed
from the tumult and ill-temper of politics. Every Sunday
his house at Passy was thrown open to his friends, and his
dinner parties were large and merry; every Wednesday he
drove to Moulin Joli to call upon Mme. Brillon, and Satur-
days were devoted to the drawing-room of Mme. Helve"tius
at Auteuil.

SATIRES AND BAGATELLES 183

In the society of quick-witted, polished French ladies, the
Abbes Morellet and La Roche, the philosophers Condorcet
and Cabanis, Franklin relaxed from the severe attention and
untold annoyances of public affairs. He sang songs, played
Les Petits Oiseaux on the armonica, jested with the abbe's,
and read aloud the little essays which he had written in robust
English or invalid French. Written in a spirit of happy
abandonment, when for a moment the busy world stood
still and his shoulders were lightened of their load of care,
they sparkle with mirth and shine with grace.

They were intended for no larger public than the little
circle of dear friends; they were born of affection and sym-
pathy. Sometimes they were printed upon his private press
at Passy in limited editions of perhaps a dozen or fifteen
copies. Nearly all are lost. The fictitious " Supplement"
exists in the Library of Congress and the Library of The
American Philosophical Society, and the latter collection has
also the printed original of "La Belle et la Mauvaise Jambe "
(Passy, 1 779). But the other fugitive leaves have disappeared.
Soon after Franklin returned to America the terrible storm
of the Revolution burst upon France. In that awful de-
lirium many of Franklin's dearest friends suffered tragical
deaths. Condorcet died of poison on a prison floor; Le
Veillard perished by the guillotine. Houses were plundered,
private papers confiscated and destroyed. Apparently a
few letters were all that remained when the Revolution had
spent its force.

These light essays Franklin called his "bagatelles."
They were printed upon a press in his own house at Passy
and with type cast by his servants. He certified to Francis
Child, printer, that the printing types contained in fifteen

1 84 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

boxes brought by him from France "were made in my
house at Passy, by my servants, for my use, and were never
the property of any European letter founder, manufacturer,
or merchant whatsoever."

The first publication of the "Bagatelles" was by William
Temple Franklin in the fifth volume of his edition of his
grandfather's works . They are found in the first
volume of the "Posthumous Writings" (Sec. Ill, pp. 216-
298), and are introduced with the following headnote : —

"The Letters, Essays, etc., contained in this section were
chiefly written by Dr. Franklin for the amusement of his
intimate society in London and Paris, and were by himself
actually collected in a small portfolio, endorsed as above.
Several of the pieces were either originally written in French,
or afterward translated by him into that language by way of
exercises." Then follow: —

1. "The Levee."

2. "Proposed New Version of the Bible."

3. "Apologue" (written, says a footnote, at the period of,
and in allusion to, the claims of the American Royalists on
the British Government).

4. To Miss Georgiana Shipley, dated London, Septem-
ber 26, 1772, with an epitaph on her American squirrel.

5. "The Art of Procuring Pleasant Dreams."

6. "The Ephemera, an Emblem of Human Life" (written
in 1778, to Mme. Brillon, of Passy).

7. "The Whistle" (to Mme. Brillon, Passy, November
10, 1779).

8. "The Petition of the Left Hand."

9. "The Handsome and Deformed Leg."

10. "Morals of Chess."

SATIRES AND BAGATELLES 185

11. "Conte (with a translation), a Tale."

12. "Dialogue between Franklin and the Gout" (dated
midnight, October 22, 1780).

13. To Mme. Helve'tius, at Auteuil.

14. A Madame Helve'tius (in French, with a translation
into English).

15. "Tres humble Requete Pre'sente'e a Madame Helve'-
tius par ses Chats " (with translation).

1 6. A Monsieur L'Abbe* de la Roche, a Auteuil (with
translation).

17. A Monsieur L'Abbe* Morellet, Passy (with transla-
tion).

With the exception of number fifteen, — "Tres humble
Requete Presentee a Madame Helve'tius par ses Chats," —
which was really written by Abbe" Morellet, all these baga-
telles will be found in the present edition. Some of them
have been printed from drafts in Franklin's handwriting in
the Library of The American Philosophical Society. Some-
times, in order to improve his French, he translated one of
these little essays into the best French he could muster and
sent his Gallic version for criticism to M. Brillon, "un savant,"
or to Mme. Brillon, who calls herself "une femme qui
n'est point savante." Franklin never acquired fluency in
French. He was never quite sure that he thoroughly under-
stood what was said in conversation, and he found the writ-
ing of a letter in French a laborious undertaking. In 1786
he apologized for writing to M. de Chaumont in English,
saying, " It costs me too much time to write in that language
[French] and after all is very bad French." "The Story of
the Whistle" is found among his papers in two drafts, on
the right in English, on the left in French, and the latter

1 86 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

corrected in red ink in another hand than that of the
first draft of the translation. He sent to the Brillons his
French translation of his " Dialogue entre la Goute et M.
Franklin." It was returned to him "corrige" et augment^
de plusieurs fauttes par un sjavant et voue" de nottes cri-
tiques par une femme qui n'est point scavante." At the
same time Madame Brillon wrote to him: "Your dialogue
has greatly amused me but your corrector of French has
spoiled your work. Believe me, leave your works as they
are, use words which express your meaning and laugh at
the grammarians who through their purisms enfeeble your
phrases. If I had the brains I should utter a dire diatribe
against those who would dare to refurbish your work, even
if it were the Abbe" de la Roche, or my neighbour Veillard."
After reading "The Whistle " she wrote to him : "M. Brillon
a bien ri des sifflets : nous trouvons que ce que vous appele"s
votre mauvais franjois, donne souvent du picquant a votre
narration, par la construction de certaines phrases, et par
les mots que vous invente's."

At the request of one of Bishop Shipley's daughters Frank-
lin wrote his bagatelle on "The Art of Procuring Pleasant
Dreams," in which occurs the following passage: "It is re-
corded of Methusalem, who, being the longest liver, may be
supposed to have best preserved his health, that he slept
always in the open air; for, when he had lived five hundred
years, an angel said to him: 'Arise Methusalem, and build
thee an house, for thou shalt live yet five hundred years
longer.' But Methusalem answered, and said, 'if I am to
live but five hundred years longer, it is not worth while
to build me an house; I will sleep in the air, as I have been
used to do.' " Upon acknowledging the receipt of the little

SATIRES AND BAGATELLES 187

essay Caroline Shipley wrote (November 13, 1786) : "I have
particularly to thank you for 'The Art of Procuring Pleasant
Dreams,' indeed it flattered me exceedingly that you should
employ so much of your precious time in complying with
my request, but where do you read that Methusalah slept in
the open air? I have searched the Bible in vain to find it."
In the succeeding volumes of this work the various baga-
telles will be found printed from Franklin's manuscript, or
from the Passy press, or from W. T. Franklin's text. In
this place it may be of interest to print two of them from the
first drafts. "The Deform'd and Handsome Leg" thus
printed shows how Franklin worked over his essays, even
when they were but bagatelles. The other, "The Whistle,"
becomes a lesson in French as well as an example of literary
construction and correction.

" The Dejorm'd and Handsome Leg.1

"There are two Sorts of People in the World, who with
equal Degrees of Health, & Wealth, and the other Comforts
of Life [are] become, the one happy, and the other [Unhappy]
miserable. — This arises very much [merely] from [In almost
ever] the different views in which they consider Things, Per-
sons & Events ; and the Effect of those different Views upon
their own Minds.

"In whatever Situation [a] Men can be plac'd, they [will]
may find Conveniencies & Inconveniencies : In whatever
Company; they [will] may find Persons & Conversations
more or less pleasing. At whatever Table, they [will find]

1 Erasures in the manuscripts are shown by being placed between [ ].
Insertions are printed in italics.

1 88 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

may meet with Meats &» drinks of better and worse Taste,
[things] Dishes better & worse dress'd : In whatever Climate
they will find good and bad Weather ; Under whatever Gov-
ernment, they [will] may find good and bad Laws, and good
and bad Administration of those Laws. In every Poem or
Work of Genius they may see Faults & Beauties: In al-
most every Face and every Person they may discover
[Beauties] fine Features & Defects, good & bad Qualities.
Under these Circumstances, the two Sorts of People [I have]
above mention 'd fix their Attention, those who are to be
happy, on the [convenient] Conveniencies of Things, the
pleasant Parts of Conversation, the well-dress 'd Dishes, the
Goodness of the Wines, the [agreable] fine Weather; [the]
&c. &c. and enjoy all with Chearfulness. Those who are to
be unhappy, think fir8 speak only of the contraries. Hence
they are continually discontented themselves, and by their
Remarks sour the Pleasures of Society, offend [disgust] per-
sonally many people, and make themselves [where] every
where disagreable.

" If this [different] Turn of Mind was founded in Nature,
such unhappy [People] Persons would be the more to be pitied :
But as th[at]« Disposition to criticise & be disgusted, is per-
haps taken up originally by Imitation, and is unawares grown
into a Habit ; [and] which tho' at present strong may never-
theless be cured when those who have it are convinc'd of its
bad Effects on their [Happiness] Felicity; I hope [a] this little
Admonition may be of Service to them, — and put them on
changing a Habit, which tho' in the Exercise is [merely]
chiefly an Act of Imagination yet it has serious Consequences
in Life : [To] as it brings on real Griefs £r» Misfortunes : For
as many [have been] are offended by, &°c. no body well loves

SATIRES AND BAGATELLES 189

this Sort of People, no one shows them more than the most
common." — The Franklin Papers, Vol. 50, A. P. S.

"PASSY, Nov. 16, 1779.

" J[e recus] 'ai Recu les deux Lettres de ma chere Amie, 1'une
[pour] pour le Mercredi, 1'autre [pour] pour le Sam[m]edi;
c'est aujourd'hui encore Mercredi. [Mais] Je ne merite pas
[d'avoir une pour ce jour], [d'en] d'en avoir encore, parceque
je n'ai pas fait reponse aux [autres] precedentes. Mais tout
indolent, [comme] que je suis, [& averse] et quelque aversion que
faye [a] d'ecrire, la Crainte de n'avoir [pas] plus de vos char-
mantes Epitres, si je ne contribue [pas] aussi ma part pour
soutenir la Correspondance [m'oblige] me force de prendre
[ma] la plume. Et comme M. Brillon [a] m'a mandi si
obligeamment qu'il part demain Matin pour vous voir moi,
au lieu de passer [le] ce Mercredi[s] au soir, comme j'ai fait
si long terns de ses predecesseurs du meme nom, en vdtre
[delicieuse Compagnie] douce Socie'te, Je me [mis a] [retira
dans ma] suis mis a mon ecritoire pour le passer [en] a pens-
[ant]er [de] a vous, [en erivant a vous], et a vous ecrire & [en
lisant] a lire & reli[sant]re ce que vous m'avez [ecrit a moi]
[si elegamment] si delicieusement e"crit.

"Je suis charme* de votre Description du Paradis, & de
[votre] vos Plans pour y vivre. J 'approve aussi tres fortement
la Conclusion que vous faites, qu'en attendant il faut tirer de
ce bas monde tout le bien qu'on en peut tirer. A mon Avis,
[nous c'est bien] il est tres possible pour nous d'en tirer beau-
coup plus de bien que nous n'en [tirons] tirons & d'en souffrir
moins de mal, si nous [voulussions] voulions seulement pren-
dre garde de ne donner pas trop pour nos s[ou\ifflets. Car il
me semble, que la plus-part des Malheureux qu'on trouve

190 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

dans le monde sont devenus tels par leur Negli[ss)gewce de
cette Caution.

"Vous demandez ce que je veux dire? Vous aimez les
[Contes] Histoires & vous m'excusefraijras si je vous en donne
une qui me [re qui] regarde [de] moi m6me. Quand J'etois
un Enfant de 5 ou 6 ans, mes Amis, [sur] un Jour de F6te,
remplirent ma petite Poche de [oooo] sous. [J'Iroit] J'allai[t]
tout de suite a une Boutique ou on vendoit des Babioles, [ &]
mais &ant charme" du [la] Son d'un Sifflet que je rencontrois
en chemin dans le mains d'un autre petit gar con je lui volontiers
offr[oit] ais & donnai volontiers pour cela tout mon Argent.
[Quand je ret] Revenu chez moi, sifflant par toute la Maison
fort [satisfait] content de mon Achat mais jatiguant les Oreilles
de toute la Famille, mes Freres, mes Sceurs, mes Cousines,
entendant [combien j'ai donne] que j'avois tant [lant] donne*
tons pour ce mauvais Bruit, [tous ils] me dirent que c'e"toit
dix fois plus que la Valeur ; [ & ils] alors ils me [faisoit] firent
penser [du] au Nombre de[s] bonnes choses, que je pouvois
acheter avec le reste [du] de ma Monnoye si j'avois ete plus
[sage] prudent & ils me ridiculi[ssent]erew/ tant de ma Folie,
que je pleuroi[t].y de cette vexation ; & la Reflexion me don-
noit plus de Chagrin, que le sifflet [peut me dormer] d[u]e

plaisir.

"PASSY, Nov. 16, 1779.

"I received my dear Friend's two Letters, one for Wednes-
day & one for Saturday. This is again Wednesday. I do
not deserve one for to day, because I have not answered the
former. [But you will] But indolent as I am, and averse to
Writing, the Fear of [receiving] having no more of your
[ever] pleasing Epistles, if I do not contribute to the Corre-
spondence, obliges me to take up my pen. And as M. Brillon

SATIRES AND BAGATELLES 191

has kindly sent me Word, that he sets out to morrow to see
you, instead of spending this Wednesday evening as I [us'd
to do Since these] have long done its Namesake's, in your
delightful Company, I set down to spend it in thinking of
you [and] in writing to you, and in reading over and over
again your Letters.

" I am charm'd with your Description of Paradise, & with
your Plan of living there. And I approve much of your Con-
clusion, that in the mean time we should draw all the Good
we can from this World below. — In my Opinion we might
all [do] draw more good from it than we do and suffer less
Evil, if we [were but careful enough] would but take care
not to give too much for our whistles. For to me it seems
that most of the unhappy people we meet with, are become
so by the Neglect of that [Circumstance] Caution.

"You ask, what I mean? — You [ask what I] love Stories,
and will excuse my telling you [a little] one of myself. When
I was a Child of 7 Years old, my Friends [on a] on a holiday
[fill'd my] fill'd my little Pocket with halfpence. I went
directly to a Shop where they sold Toys for Children; and
being charm'd with the Sound of a Whistle, that I met by
the way in the hands of another Boy, I voluntarily offer'd and
gave all my Money for it. When I came home, whistling all
over the House, much pleased with my Whistle, but disturbing
all the Family, my Brothers, Sisters & Cousins understand-
ing the Bargain I had made, told me I had given four times
as much for it as it was worth ; put me in mind what Good
things I might have bought with the rest of the Money, and
laught at me so much for my folly that I cry'd with Vexa-
tion; and the [Ch Chagrin I suffered by it was greater] Re-

192 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

flection [on] gave me more Chagrin than the Whistle gave me
Pleasure.

" [Co] Get accident jut cependant, [etoit] dans la suite [ut] de
quelque utilit£ pour moi, PImpression restant sur mon Ame ;
[tant que quand] de sorte que lorsque j'e"tois tente* d'acheter
quelque chose qui ne m'etoit pas necessaire, je disois [a] en
moi m£me : Ne donnois pas trop pour le Sifflet; Et j'[ai sauve]
tpargnois mon Argent.

" Devenant grand Garcon, [ &] entrant [dans] le Monde, &
observant les Actions des Hommes, je [pensois] vis que je
rencontrois [un] Nombre [des gens] de gens qui donnoient trop
pour le Sifflet.

" Quand j'ai vu quelqu'un, qui, ambitieux [du] de la Faveur
de la Cour, [sacrifiant] consumant son terns en [Attendance
des] Assiduite's aux [Levees] Levers, son Repos, sa Liberte",
sa Vertu & peut-etre ses vrais Amis, pour obtenir quelque
petite Distinction; J'ai dit [a] en moi me"me, Cet homme donne
trop pour son Sifflet. Quand [j'ai] j'en ai vu un[e] autre [en-
t6t6] [personne] avide [d1 obtenir} [de Popularite] [se rendre
populaire] de se rendre populaire & pour cela s'occupant tou-
jours de Contestations publiques, negligeant ses [propres]
Affaires particulieres & les ruinant par cette Negligence, [II]
[elle] il paye, trop ai-je dit, [trop] pour son Sifflet. — Si j'ai
connu un [Miser] Avare, qui renoncoit a toute [espece] man-
iere de vivre commodement, a toute le plaisir de faire le bien
aux autres, a toute PEstime de ses Compatriotes ; & a tous
les [joyes] charmes de PAmitie", pour avoir un morceau de
metal jaune. Pauvre homme, [je] disois-je, vous donnez
trop pour vdtre Sifflet ! — Quand j'ai rencontre [a] un homme
de Plaisir, sacrifiant toute louable perfectionnement [lauda-

SATIRES AND BAGATELLES 193

ble] de son Ame [ou du] & toute amelioration de son Etat aux
[gratifications] voluptes de sens[e] purement corporelfles] [ &
en les pursuivant] & detruisant sa Sante" dans leur poursuite.
Homme trompe, ai-je dit, vous vous procurez des Peines au
lieu des Plaisirs; vous payez trap pour votre Sifflet! — Si [je
vois] fen ai vu un autre, ente'te' de beaux Habillements, belles
Maisons, belle Fournitures, beaux Equipages, toutes au-des-
sus de sa Fortune & [pour lesquelles il fait des] [voir] qu'il
ne se procurait qu'en faisant des Dettes & [finit] en allant finir
sa Carriere dans une Prison. Helas, [dira] [dis-je], ai-je dit,
II a paye trap pour son Sifflet! — Quand j'ai vu une tre*s
belle fille, d'un[e] [disposition] naturelfl] bon[ne] & [douce
epouse] doux mariee a un homme feroce & brutal, qui la
maltraite continuellement [Quelle pitie] C'est grande Pitie, ai-
je dit, qu'elle [a] ait tant paye [tant] pour un Sifflet! — Enfin,
j'ai conclu que la plus grande partie des Malheurs de[s]
[Hommes] 1'Espece humaine [ont sa derive] [vio] viennent des
Estimations fausses qu'on fait de la Valeur des choses [moyen
de qu'on] [ooooooo] on donne[s] [000000} trop pour les Sifflets.

" Neantmoins je sens que je dois avoir de la Charite pour ces
Gens malheureux quand je conside're qu'avec toute cette Sa-
gesse dont je me vante, il y a certaines choses dans [le] ce bas
monde si tentantes ; par exemple, les Pommes du Roy Jean,
lesquelles heureusement ne sont pas a acheter car [si si ils
sont pour] si elles etoient mises a 1'enchere, je [peux] pourrois
£tre tre*s facilement [mend a] porte a me miner par leur
[l]'Achat, & trouver que jj'avois] faurais encore une fois
donne trop pour le Sifflet.

"Adieu ma ire's chere Amie, [ & me] croiez moi toujours le
votre, bien sincerement, & avec une Affection [indiminua-
ble] inalterable.

VOL. I — O

194 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

" [J'ai perdu vos voisines & les miennes & quand je pense
[de] a vous, je chante pitoyablement.

"J'ai perdu mon Euridice: rien]" — The Franklin Papers,
Vol. 45, No. 149$, A. P. S.

"This however was afterwards of Use to me, [and] the Im-
pression continuing on my Mind ; so that often when I was
tempted to buy some unnecessary thing, I said to myself,
Don't give too much for the Whistle, and I sav'd my Money.

"As I grew up, [and] came into the World, and observed
the Actions of Men, I thought I [saw] met with many who
gave too much for the Whistle. When I saw [a man] one
ambitious of Court Favour, sacrificing his Time, in attend-
ance at Levees, his Repose, his Liberty, his Virtue, and
perhaps his Friend, to obtain it. [My] I have said to myself,
This Man gives too much for his Whistle. When I saw an-
other fond of Popularity, constantly imploying himself in
political Bustles, neglecting his own Affairs, and ruining
[himself] them by that Neglect, [Here] He pays, says I, too
much for his Whistle. If I knew a Miser, who gave up every
kind of comfortable Living, [in order] all the Pleasure of do-
ing good to others, all the Esteem of his Fellow Citizens, &
the [J] Joys of benevolent Friendship, for the sake of accumu-
lating Wealth ; Poor Man, says I, you pay too much for your
Whistle. [If I saw a Prodigal] When I met with a Man of
Pleasure, [giving up] sacrificing every laudable Improvement
of his Mind or of his Fortune, to mere corporal Satisfactions,
& ruining his Health in their Pursuit. Mistaken Man, says
I, you are providing Pain for yourself instead of Pleasure;
you pay too much for your Whistle. If I [see] [saw] see one
fond of Appearance of fine Cloaths, fine Houses, fine Furni-

SATIRES AND BAGATELLES 195

ture, fine Equipages, all above his Fortune, [till] for which
he contracts Debts, and ends his Career [in] in a Prison.
Alas, Says I, he has paid too much for his Whistle. — When
I saw a beautiful [Girl] sweet temper'd Girl marr[ying]d to an
ugly ill-natur'd Brute of a Husband : [M] What a Pity, says
I, that she should pay so much for a Whistle! — In short, I
conceiv'd that great Part of the Miseries of Mankind, were
brought upon them by the false Estimates they had made of
the Value of things, and by their giving too much for the
Whistle.

" Yet I ought to have Charity for these unhappy People
when I consider, that with all this Wisdom of which I am
boasting, there are certain things in the World [ooo] so tempt-
ing, for Example, the Apples of King John, which happily
are not to be bought, for if they were to be put to sale by Auc-
tion, I might very easily be [brought] [induced] led to ruin
myself in the Purchase, and find that I had once more given
too much for the Whistle.

"Adieu, my dearest Friend, and believe me ever yours, very
sincerely and with unalterable Affections.

" [I have lost your Neighbours also. And when I think of
you, I sing, I have lost my Euridice, Oh "] — The Franklin
Papers, A. P. S., Vol. 45, No. 149 £.

CORRESPONDENCE

I have already referred to the immense range and volume
of Franklin's correspondence. From every country in Europe
men of science addressed him in the attitude of pupils, and
statesmen sought his opinions upon the political manoeuvres

196 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

of the time. Never was there a man more eulogized.
In the House of Lords he was mentioned by Chatham as
one "whom all Europe held in high estimation for his knowl-
edge and wisdom, and ranked with our Boyles and Newtons ;
who was an honour, not to the English nation only, but to
human nature." And in the midst of the Revolution Lord
Chatham and Lord Camden requested Thomas Walpole to
express in his letters their high admiration and affectionate
regard for Franklin. Crowned heads sought through their
ministers for interviews with him. Burke called him "the
friend of the human race." Condorcet addressed him as
"the modern Prometheus" and "my dear and illustrious
colleague." Erasmus Darwin declared him to be the great-
est statesman of the present or perhaps of any century, and
compared him to the Saviour of the world (Derby, May 29,
1787). The comparison might appear blasphemous pro-
ceeding from the sceptical philosopher, but it occurred to
others who used it with all reverence. His sister, Mrs.
Mecom, wrote to him (November 3, 1774) : "I think it is not
Profanity to compare you to our Blessed Saviour who em-
ployed much of his time while here on earth in doing good
to the body as well as Souls of Men, and I am shure I think
the Comparison just often when I hear the Calumny invented
and thrown out against you while you are Improving all your
Powers for the Salvation of their very Persons." In like vein
his niece (E. Hubbart) begged him to be temperate in well-
doing or he would occupy Heaven alone: "Consider, Sir, if
you go on at this rate you will have no company there "
(December i, 1755).

The enthusiasm of the French was boundless. Joseph
Etienne Bertier wrote (February 27, 1769): "France is as

CORRESPONDENCE 197

much your country as England, a Father is in his country
when it is inhabited by his children. We are all Franklin-
istes" M. de la Blancherie, one of the four commissioners
of the French Academy, begged him to honour the Academy
with his presence and awaited him "as Israelites awaited
manna from heaven" (April 12, 1777). Baron Zreny wrote
from Hungary (January 9, 1781): "Jamais Themistocles
etoit si trouble de nuit et de jour par des trophees de Mil-
tiades, comme moi par vos entreprises." After the surrender
of Cornwallis, D'herime exclaimed, "Vous etes la pierre
fondamentale de Pheureuse revolution contre laquelle, la
tyrannic devoit un jour se briser."

Turgot's famous epigram, the most successful in modern
history, — Eripuit caelo fulmen, sceptrumque tyrannis, —
commanded the admiration of the world, and set the men of
letters of France vainly endeavouring to render it into simi-
larly sententious French verse. Landor said to Sir Samuel
Romilly : " It is far more glorious to have written this one verse
than all the verbiage of Virgil at the beginning of the Georgics.
Wretched stuff which children and men too, traditionally
admire!" Franklin seems to have been the only one who
questioned the propriety of the sentiment, for when Felix
Nogaret sent him his French translation of the line, "II ote
au ciel la foudre, et le sceptre aux tyrans," he replied : " J'ai
recu la lettre dans laquelle, apres m'avoir accable d'un tor-
rent de Compliments qui me causent un Sentiment penible,
car je ne puis espdrer les me'riter jamais, vous me demandez
mon Opinion sur la traduction d'un vers latin. Je suis trop
peu connaisseur, quant aux elegances et aux finesses de votre
excellent langage, pour oser me porter juge de la poesie qui
doit se trouver dans ce vers.

198 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

"Je vous ferai seulement remarquer deux inexactitudes dans
le vers original. Malgre* mes experiences sur I'e'lectricite',
la foudre tombe toujours k notre nez et a notre barbe, et quant
aux tyrans, nous avons etc" plus d'un million d'hommes occupe"
a lui arracher son sceptre." *

D'Alembert tried his hand at the translation and sent to
Franklin these verses : —

"Tu vois le sage courageux

Dont 1'heureux et male ge'nie
Arracha le tonnerre aux dieux
Et le sceptre a la tyrannic."

Franklin's wide acquaintance included men of three cen-
turies. In his boyhood he heard Increase Mather preach,
and remembered his reference to "that wicked old perse-
cutor of God's people — Lewis XIV." Ere his youth attained
a beard, he had attracted the attention of Bernard Mandeville,
and added a purse made of American asbestos to Sir Hans
Sloane's collection of curiosities. In his old age he extended
aid and encouragement to the young and ambitious. Almost
the last of his benefactions was furnishing the father of Oliver
Wendell Holmes, in his far Southern home, with a library of
useful books. Between the birth of Increase Mather and
the death of Abiel Holmes, both of whom thus come within
the orbit of Franklin's life, lies a stretch of two hundred years.

Franklin's correspondence is in nine languages, and relates
to every subject that found a place in eighteenth-century

1 " II cst vrai que Turgot avait trouve son premier he'mistiche dans 1'As-
tronomicon de Manilius (liv. I, v, 102); et bien plus, comme 1'a fort bien
remarque Grimm (Correspon. Avril 1778), tout le dessin de son vers dans
celui-ci, de 1'Anti-Lucrece du Cardinal de Polignac (liv. ler, v, 96) : Eripuit-
que Jovi fulmen, Phoeboque Sagittas." — Edouard Fournier, " L'Esprit des
Autres." Paris, 1879, cinquieme edition, p. 40.

CORRESPONDENCE 199

politics and philosophy. We have already sufficiently noted
his letters to and from Herschel and Maskelyne, Priestley
and Lavoisier, Ingenhousz and Beccaria, and all the pioneers
of scientific research in Europe and America. Nothing was
foreign to his interest, nothing escaped his attention. He
corresponded with Court de Gebelin about the aboriginal
American languages and customs, with George Croghan
about the discovery of the remains of mastodons in the New
World, with David Barclay about the steam engine, with
John Fitch about the steamboat, with Saussure about the
determination of the density of the earth and the ascent of
Mount Blanc. All this is but a small part of his prodigious
correspondence. Among his infinite hoard of papers are his
communications with The Society of the Friends of Dr. Bray,
and with Anthony Benezet and Granville Sharp upon sla-
very, with Mrs. Montagu — "Blue-stocking Montagu" —
concerning her poor neighbours in Berkshire. Here are
great budgets of letters from the aristocracy of Europe;
Princess Golofkin and Princess Dashkof, and Prince Czar-
toryski are honoured by letters from him, while he feels him-
self much more interested and honoured in a thoughtful
letter from a galley slave, Pierre Andre* Gorgaz, "forcat
numero 1336," of Toulon, who sends him a scheme for per-
petual peace between England and America, and Franklin
endorses it "project of universal peace, by a galley slave!"
Here are anonymous letters written by the left hand to avoid
detection, and numerous reports upon English politics from
Benjamin Vaughan, the close companion of Lord Shelburne,
David Hartley, M.P., and Edward Bridgsen. Sir Edward
Newenham, with an Irishman's violent prejudice, put
venom into his censure of English politics and politicians.

200 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

Vaughan's letters are particularly valuable. He freely criti-
cises the English leaders and reports what he has heard of
the resolves of cabinets and ministers. He tells Franklin
that Shelburne has no such thing as friendship in his nature.
He says that "the Rockinghams are warm and weak men
who all hang together, and of course they make very proper
materials for knaves to work upon, and knaves have not
been wanting that were both noisy and needy." He reports
Lord North as saying that he believed Franklin the only man
in Paris whose hands were not stained with stock jobbery.

It is possible to separate Franklin's papers into three great
divisions. Some are official, some are scientific, and some
are social.

The official correspondence includes the communications
from European soldiers who wanted to go to America under
his patronage, to enlist in the army; from emigrants of all
nationalities who would go to America to settle, to trade,
to teach, or to introduce inventions ; from office seekers, —
straggling institutions seeking financial help in France,
sturdy beggars, ill-used prisoners, and quarrelsome and jeal-
ous sea captains. It was a veritable deluge of letters that
poured ceaselessly in upon him, some soliciting money, some
begging him to settle angry disputes and reapportion prize
money, others relating to the purchase of supplies for "the
insurgents" and to the exchange of prisoners. In all this
multifarious business, he exhibited his slow, cool, sagacious
judgment, subduing anger in one case, foiling craft in an-
other, until in sheer rage at his constant discomfiture, Lord
Stormont wrote to Lord Weymouth (October 3, 1776) of
Franklin's "insidious subtlety."

Much of the official correspondence addressed to him never

CORRESPONDENCE 201

reached him. Packages from the Congress and its commit-
tees were cast into the sea by captains hard pressed by Eng-
lish men-of-war. Large packets of letters were intercepted
in London and opened by Anthony Todd, Secretary to the
Post Office, who had discovered, as he told the Earl of Suf-
folk, that "Mr. Francois" meant "alias Dr. Franklin."1

Upon the backs of letters Franklin frequently endorsed
brief, vigorous, and sometimes humorous comments upon
their contents. These comments are occasionally expanded
into a rough draft of the reply to be sent to the writer. A
certain Backhaus writes (February 7, 1783) that he wishes
to enter the military service of America. Franklin notes
upon the letter "That it is probable that the United States
will not keep up a standing army, having everywhere a well-
disciplined militia. That many of the Germans have already
deserted the English colours and settled in the country and
it is probable most of them will do the same rather than
return to Europe. That I am not authorised to set on foot
any such negotiations, am however obliged to him for his
good will to our service and request he would accept my
thanks."

A throng of adventurers pressed upon Franklin, beseeching
him by letter, and in personal interviews, to recommend them
to America, that they might have a part in the conflict. They
made every kind of pathetic, impudent, and whimsical ap-
peal. One aspirant who signed himself "Louis Givanetti

1 George Lupton wrote to William Eden (May 28, 1777): "I yesterday
discovered under what name Mr. Deane receives his letters from England,
tho' 'twas attended with some risque ; he had occasion to go below for some-
thing, in the meanwhile I slipped into his closet and discovered numbers of
letters directed to him under the name of Monsieur Benson; they come to
him generally by the way of Holland." — Stevens' Facsimiles, II, No. 162.

202 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

Pellion, ci-devant Garde du Corps de S. M. le Roi de Sar-
daigne, aujourd'hui Controlleur de la Cour de S. Me susdite,"
recommended himself in the following terms: "I know how
to accommodate myself to all climates, manners, circum-
stances; and times. I am passionately fond of travel, I love
to see the great world, its armies and navies. Neither cards,
nor wine nor women have any influence over me : but a ship,
an army, long voyages, all these are Paradise to me!"

Franklin yielded to the solicitations of a few, and, of those
whom he recommended, some — Steuben, Zollicoffer, Fleury
— achieved high distinction. Congress was soon, however,
embarrassed by the number of foreign soldiers crowding into
the army and requested the commissioners in France to dis-
courage all such applicants.

Occasionally, however, the application came reinforced
with letters from persons whom it was impolitic to refuse or
to offend. In these instances an amusing caution curbs
Franklin's recommendations, while he artfully disobeys
orders. The following letter was written to the President of
Congress, July 10, 1780: —

"Sra: I am requested by Madame la Marquise de la
Fayette, whom no body can refuse, to give the Bearer, M. le
Baron d'Arros, a Letter to your Excellency. I have ac-
quainted him that our Armies are fully officered, that there
was no Probability of his being employed, that it was contrary
to my orders to recommend any foreign Officer for Employ-
ment, that such a Recommendation, if I were to give it, would
therefore do him no service, and that I could not give him
the least Expectation or Encouragement to go over to Amer-
ica, but would rather advise him to remain in France. All
this has had no Effect to change his Resolution. He thinks

CORRESPONDENCE 203

his long Experience and Skill in his Military Profession, will
recommend him : and I have only to request of your Excel-
lency that you would shew him that Countenance and those
Civilities that his Zeal for our Cause and his Connections
with a Family we all so much esteem and love may entitle
him to."

Upon being asked by an entire stranger for a letter of
recommendation, Franklin couched it in these terms: "As
to this gentleman I must refer you to himself for his charac-
ter and merits, with which he is certainly better acquainted
than I can possibly be. I recommend him, however, to
those civilities, which every stranger, of whom one knows
no harm, has a right to; and I request you will do him all
the good Offices, and show him all the favour, that, on
further Acquaintance, you shall find him to deserve."

"You can have no conception," he wrote to a friend, "how
I am harass'd. All my friends are sought out to teaze me.
Great Officers of all Ranks, in all Departments; Ladies,
great and small, besides professed Sollicitors, worry me from
morning to night. The noise of every Coach now that enters
my Court terrifies me. I am afraid to accept an invitation
to dine abroad, being almost sure of meeting with some Offi-
cer or Officer's Friend, who as soon as I am put in good
Humour by a Glass or two of Champagne, begins his Attack
upon me. Luckily I do not often in my sleep dream myself
in these vexatious Situations, or I should be afraid of what
are now my only Hours of Comfort. If therefore you have
the least remaining Kindness for me, if you would not help
drive me out of France, for God's sake, my dear friend, let
this your 23d Application be your last."

Volumes of letters came from the relatives of those who

204 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

had enlisted, anxiously inquiring about their fate. The
Countess Esthe (sister-in-law of Kosziuszko), the brother of
Casimir Poulawski, the aged father of Steuben, write repeat-
edly and pathetically for news from America. Others are
languishing in English prisons, and their kinsmen beseech
Franklin to secure their exchange. In reply to one such
memorial he writes (to M. Goudeman, December 10, 1777):
"We consider M. Waibert as one of our Countrymen. Hun-
dreds of them are in the same situation. We have proposed
to the British Court, through their Ambassador here, an Ex-
change of Prisoners in Europe. The Proposition was rejected
with Insolence. We have no interest with that Court to pro-
cure Favours. That Gentlemen may depend on our taking
the same care and Pains to procure his Liberty as for any
other the most favoured of our People."

The weary pressure of life in Europe drove many persons,
of all classes of society, to emigrate to the New World.
Franklin was called upon constantly for information con-
cerning the country, the climate, its products, its trade, its
people, and its laws. Reuben Harvey wrote from Cork
(May 17, 1782) that about one hundred poor tradesmen and
husbandmen desired to settle in America. The ship Ann
is about to sail. "They have not money to pay their passage
and therefore propose to indent as servants for a certain
term, as has been the custom heretofore ; but my friend Stub-
beman (who is loading the ship) is unwilling to accept them
in this manner until he has thy opinion respecting the pro-
priety of it, least Congress may disapprove of such men
being carried out to America." Franklin replies on the
back of the sheet: "They will go to a Country where
People do not Export their Beef and Lumen to import

CORRESPONDENCE 205

Claret, while the Poor at home live on Potatoes and wear
Rags. Indeed America has not Beef and Linnen sufficient
for Exportation because every man there, even the poorest,
eats Beef and wears a Shirt."

Pierre von de Corcellen, of Moudon, in the canton of
Berne (March 5, 1779), wrote for information about the price
of land in Pennsylvania, as he and several farmers desired to
settle there. Franklin jots down upon the letter: "That I
am obliged to him for his Good will to America — that the
lands in Pensilvania not yet granted all belong to the Pro-
prietary, Mr. Penn. That he sells them for 5 j£ sterling the
100 Acres. A Price so low that probably the Gentlemen
would chuse rather to purchase than accept them as a Gift.
That no Lands are given to Encourage Strangers to settle in
that Province. A good Climate, good Air, good Soil, good
Government, good Laws, and Liberty have been found suffi-
cient Encouragements without hiring Inhabitants by other
Gifts : and all those he will meet with, besides are honest virtu-
ous People, who receive Strangers with a sincere welcome and
will respect his Talents." Some years later Franklin was
wont to reply to inquirers of this kind by a reference to Creve-
coeur's excellent "Letters from an American Farmer." To a
proposed emigrant he wrote: "There is a book lately pub-
lished in London, written by Mr. Hector St. John, its title
'Letters from an American Farmer,' which contains a good
deal of information on those subjects [value of land, etc.] and
as I know the Author to be an observing, intelligent man I
suppose the information to be good as far as it goes, and I
recommend the Book to your perusal."

He was guarded in his commendation of Abbe* Raynal's
book when a German (Stockar) wrote to him about it from

206 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

"Schafhouse [sic] en Suisse," December 6, 1781. Frank-
lin's memorandum is: "Different men who have been present
and witnesses of a Transaction often give different and incon-
sistent Accounts of it, thro' defaults in their Observation or
Memory. It is still more difficult for a Historian who writes
of Affairs distant either in Time or Place to come at the exact
Truth. It is therefore a Wonder if some Errors have escaped
the Abbe* Raynal's care in his History of the American Revo-
lution which this Pamphlet points out. It is nevertheless
upon the whole an excellent Work. Tho' there are some
other Errors, such as that European Animals degenerate in
America. That men are shorter liv'd. That they have a
bad habit of Inticing Inhabitants. That the people of Mas-
sachusetts Bay preserve their Fanaticism. That the Society
is bad and has grown worse. With others of less importance."
Franklin's patronage was often solicited. He was asked
by authors to honour them by accepting the dedication of
their works. The Abbe* de Pellizer (October 21, 1778) asked
his interest and favour in introducing to the world a Spanish-
French-Latin Dictionary, upon which he had been long
engaged. Anquetil-Duperron sent him his "La Legislation
Orientale," requesting his criticism. The Marquis de Chas-
tellux (June 21, 1780) having translated Humphreys's poems
asks for Franklin's judgment upon his work. Isaiah Thomas
(November 14, 1787), when about to reprint Perry's Pro-
nouncing Dictionary (the first in the English language to be
reprinted in America), requested permission to dedicate it
to Franklin. Not hearing immediately in reply he dedicated
it to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, but upon
receiving Franklin's belated assent, he dedicated to him the
second edition.

CORRESPONDENCE 207

Allamand, the warden of forests and waters of the island
of Corsica, told Franklin that he was writing a work upon
canals and asked for information about canals in America
(June 22, 1779). Franklin replied: "No canals have hitherto
been constructed in the Countries of the United States, unless
that called the Thoroughfare of Duck Creek in Delaware
state should be deemed one. It is said to have been made in
one night by a number of People concern'd in the Naviga-
tion of the Creek which formerly had such a Turn in it, that
after sailing 40 miles one came round to within a Mile of the
same part of the Creek that had been passed. As the Ground
of the Isthmus was flat and soft, and some high Tides nearly
cover'd it, Proposals had often been made to the Owner of
the Land to permit for a Sum of Money a Cut to be made
there, which he had always refused."

Every description of manuscript was sent to him for criti-
cism, or as tribute of respect and admiration. Perkins sent
him his articles on waterspouts, and Cadwallader Golden his
papers on meteorology. An English observer sends "A De-
scription of a Meteor" and one Frenchman submits a me-
moir e "sur un Chariot arme" en Guerre," while another offers
a memoir e "sur un Radeau portant une Forteresse." Among
his miscellaneous papers are still preserved a "Projet pour
Etablir a Philadelphie une Accademie Nationnale pour 1'Edu-
cation de la Jeunesse Americaine," "Observations politique
sur la Necessity de PEtablissement d'une seconde Ville de
Commerce maritime dans la Mediterrane"e, " "Asyles aux
Indigenes, " "Weather in Marietta on the Muskingum River
in 1788, " " Observations on the Caladaron on Mozambique."

Naturally, Franklin's post-bag contained many begging
letters. Indeed, in such numbers did they come that all

208 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

France seemed to be begging. Miserable wretches in debt,
distraction, and on the verge of suicide appealed to him for
aid. Poets wrote him sonnets and palinodes, which Frank-
lin labelled " begging verses." Upon the back of a long poem
he wrote, "From M. de Raudiere, a poor Poet, who craves
assistance to enable him to finish an epic poem which he is
writing against the English. He thinks General Howe will
be off as soon as the poem appears."

A paralytic eighty-five years old wrote to him in pitiful
vein, but Franklin noted upon the letter, " Je ne croit pas qu
il y a un Mot de Vrai dans cette Histoire." A Benedictine
monk, for five years prior of the Abbey of St. Pierre de Chalon,
had lost money at cards, and begged aid from Franklin, who
endorsed the letter "Dom Bernard, Benedictine, wants me
to pay his Gaming Debts — and he will pray for success to
our Cause!" (7bre 14, 1778). La Baronne de Randerath
writes that the doctors have advised her to take her husband
to Aix. Will Franklin lend her the money ? Her husband
and he belong to the Masonic Order, though to different
lodges !

Samuel Jackson Pratt, the author of the tiresome and
forgotten "Shenstone Green" and "Travels of the Heart,"
carried his hireling pen to Paris, and under the name of Court-
ney Melmoth, offered his services to Franklin. His glib
tongue and fluent rhetoric won for him some slight attention,
and by repeated tales of distress he obtained some small
loans. When about to return to London, he applied for a
further accommodation of fifteen louis. Franklin then
wrote to him: "It was with greater Inconvenience to myself
than you perhaps imagined that I furnished you with the
38 Guineas before, and now with 12 more, which make the

CORRESPONDENCE 209

whole 50 Guineas. I have too many occasions for Money
here, and too little to answer them. But I have relied and
do rely on your Honour and Punctuality for the speedy Re-
payment. I wish you and Mrs. Melmoth a good journey.
It shall be a secret with me, as you desire, but I am sorry to
understand that it is necessary." Money was not the only
object of the beggar's prayer. A sea captain wrote from
Bordeaux requesting Franklin to obtain from M. de Sartine,
Minister of Marine, a special dispensation in his behalf that
he might be exempted from service on the king's ships.
He said that he desired this favour in order to accept the
command of a merchant ship bound for Charlestown. Frank-
lin replied : " SIR : it being extreamly improper for me who am
a Stranger here to trouble the Ministers with Solicitations for
Persons unknown to me and in Affairs the nature of which
I am ignorant of, I must beg you to excuse my not doing
what you desire of me. I return your Papers as they may be
of Use to you " (December 17, 1778).

Struggling educational institutions in America entreated
him to obtain aid for them from the French government.
John Trumbull wrote to him (November 9, 1782) regarding
Dartmouth College, and introduced to him President Wheel-
ock, who was going abroad to solicit benefactions. Stephen
Hopkins, on behalf of Brown University (January 9, 1784),
asked him to persuade Louis XVI to give books and to endow
a chair of French in the college, and David Ho well repeated
the appeal (February 20, 1786). Witherspoon visited him
upon a like errand to ask him to look with a favourable eye
upon Princeton (March 27, 1784). John Montgomery ap-
pealed to him for funds for Dickinson College. He tried
with varying degrees of success to assist all these institutions,
VOL. i — p

210 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

and in many instances gave liberally from his own private
purse. He presented a library of three hundred books to
the town of Franklin in New Hampshire. He made pres-
ents of books to the Library Company of Philadelphia, the
University of Pennsylvania, Yale College, the universities of
Glasgow and St. Andrews, and persuaded Dr. Lettsom to
send a box of books to Dickinson College. Moreover, he
devised a plan for increasing and improving the library of
Harvard College (September n, 1755), and himself contrib-
uted a substantial sum toward the fund. To the college
which bore his name in Pennsylvania, he gave a thousand
pounds.

Franklin's love of music appears in an interesting manner
in his correspondence. He played the harp, the guitar, and
the violin, and he invented the armonica, a now obsolete
instrument, which he fancied was destined to supersede the
piano and harpsichord. The first suggestion of it came to
him upon hearing a member of the Royal Society (Mr. Dela-
val) play melodies by rubbing his fingers upon the edges of
glass bowls, which had been tuned "by putting into them
water more or less as each note required." A full description
of the instrument will be found in a letter addressed to John
Baptist Beccaria, July 13, 1762; and directions for drawing
out the tone from the glasses of the armonica will be found
in a letter to Dr. Dubourg, December 8, 1772.

At the social gatherings at Mme. Brillon's house, Franklin
delighted to play the armonica, and frequently in her letters
to him she refers to the compositions which were thus per-
formed. Upon one occasion, she writes: "Happiness is so
uncertain so many obstacles are encountered in its pursuit,
that the intimate persuasion of being happier in another life

CORRESPONDENCE 2 1 1

can alone help us to bear with the trials of this one. In Para-
dise we will be reunited never to leave each other again ! We
shall there live on roasted apples only; the music will be
composed of Scotch airs; all games will be given over to
chess, so that no one may be disappointed; everyone will
speak the same language ; the English will be neither unjust
nor wicked there; the women will not be coquettes, men
will be neither jealous nor too gallant. King John will be
left to eat his apples in peace; perhaps he will be decent
enough to offer some to his neighbours, who knows, since we
shall want for nothing in Paradise! We shall never suffer
from gout there, nor from our nerves ; M. Mesmer will con-
tent himself with playing on the harmonica, without both-
ering us about electric fluids; ambition, envy, pretensions,
jealousy, prejudices, all that will vanish at the sound of the
trumpet."

To this paradisaical prospect, Franklin replied in a similar
tone of cheerful banter: "More than forty years will probably
elapse from the time of my arrival in Heaven before you fol-
low me. ... I shall have enough time during these forty
years to practise on the harmonica and perhaps may be able
to play well enough to accompany you on the pianoforte.
From time to time we shall have little concerts : good Father
Pagin will be of the party; your neighbour and his dear
family, M. de Chaumont, Mr. B — . Mr. Jourdan, M. Gram-
mont, Mme. du Tartre, the little mother, and other chosen
friends will form our audience and the dear good girls accom-
panied by some other young angels whose portraits you have
already given me will sing the Alleluias with us; we shall
eat together apples of paradise, roasted with butter and nut-
meg, and we shall pity those who are not dead." Homesick

212 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

in the Riviera, she writes to him of her longing for the little
parties at home, "when the Abbe's la Roche and Morellet
will eat all the butter, Pe"re Pagin will play the 'God of Love'
on the violin, I the 'March' on the piano, you 'Little Birds'
on the Armonica."

A friend searched in vain in Paris for a harp which Frank-
lin had commissioned him to purchase, and offered to pro-
cure him " a pianoforte if it will supply the place of the harp."
This was probably the pianoforte which Franklin left behind
him when he returned to America, and which eight months
after his departure was sold by Le Veillard for twelve louis.

Mary Ann Davies was the first person to play in public
upon the armonica. The first occasion was the celebration
of the nuptials of the Duke of Parma and the Archduchess of
Austria, and the performance was in the presence of the Im-
perial Court of Vienna. Miss Davies played, and her sister
sang, an ode composed for the occasion by Metastasio. The
instrument had a temporary popularity and several of them
were made and sold in London at forty guineas each. Frank-
lin complained of the delays and caprices of the workmen,
and wrote to Miss Stevenson (March 25, 1763) : "I am vex'd
with Mr. James that he has been so dilatory in Mr. Maddi-
son's Armonica. I was unlucky in both the Workmen, that
I permitted to undertake making those Instruments. The
first was fanciful, and never could work to the purpose,
because he was ever conceiving some new Improvement,
that answer'd no End. The other, I doubt, is absolutely
idle."

Some slight improvements in the instrument were made in
1783 by Deudon, who was shown it by Franklin and Diderot;
and Professor Steinsky, of Prague, wrote to Franklin (August

CORRESPONDENCE 213

3, 1783) that a Mr. Renner, of the University of Prague, had
also made some minor improvements.

Charles Stamitz, "compositeur de Musique de la Cour de
Vienne et celle de la Have," proposed to come to America as
a "maitre de musique," and wrote to Franklin (October 2,
1783) that M. Clerval was about to take across the ocean
"une troupe frangaise." Franklin jotted upon the letter the
following brief memorandum for a reply: "That the Beaux
Arts are much better encouraged in Europe than in America,
where the people are not so rich. That I cannot therefore
advise him to go there. That I doubt the success of M. Cler-
val's project : our Country not being yet ripe for such Amuse-
ments."

That erratic wanderer, Abbe Vogler, who delighted Europe
with his brilliant performances, and who indulged in novel
and visionary "systems," visited Franklin at Passy to ex-
plain his new musical theory, and to invite Franklin's atten-
tion to his new invention, the tonomUre. Following his
interview he wrote to Franklin (March 5, 1783) and begged
that he would honour with his presence "un Opera que j'ai
mis en musique et qu'on donnera bientot aux Italiens intitule"
le Patriotisms."

Franklin's love of music was well and widely known, and
while a celebrated German composer travelled to Passy to
solicit his judgment upon a musical theory and a musical
invention, a less known musician (John Antes) sent him from
Cairo six quartets which he had composed for his friend
the Marquis de Hauteford to produce at the Harmonical
Society of Bengal.

His taste in music was simple. He took no pleasure in
"modern affected ornament," and was chiefly moved by

214 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

Scotch airs. His exposition of the " Ideal Harmony of the
Scottish Melodies" will be found acutely and simply set forth
in a letter to Lord Kames (June 2, 1765); and his criticism
of the defects of modern music, in a letter to Peter Franklin,
without date. "The fine singer," he says, "in the present
mode, stifles all the hard consonants, and polishes away all
the rougher parts of words that serve to distinguish them one
from another; so that you hear nothing but an admirable
pipe, and understand no more of the song, than you would
from its tune played on any other instrument. If ever it
was the ambition of musicians to make instruments that
should imitate the human voice, that ambition seems now
reversed, the voice aiming to be like an instrument. Thus
wigs were first made to imitate a good natural head of hair ;
but when they became fashionable though in unnatural forms,
we have seen natural hair dressed to look like wigs."

The first words in Franklin's will are "I Benjamin Frank-
lin, Printer" Throughout his life he was chiefly interested
in printing, and his most intimate friends were members of
that craft. He was learned in paper, types, and ink. In
England his dearest confidential companion was William
Strahan, — "dear Straney," — the King's Printer, through
whom he had become acquainted with Adam Smith. There
was business and love between them. The famous letter —
"You are a member of Parliament and one of that majority
which has doomed my country to destruction. You have
begun to burn our towns, and murder our People. Look
upon your hands, they are stained with the blood of your
relations. You and I were long friends; you are now my
enemy, and I am, yours, B. Franklin " - was merely a jeu
d'esprit, never meant to be taken seriously. No political

CORRESPONDENCE 215

circumstance or private difference created the slightest es-
trangement of these friends. They lived to the end without
a moment's jar, or coldness or peevishness.

With other printers Franklin maintained interesting corre-
spondence. He felt warm sympathy with Baskerville, and
admired the superb specimens of his art, examples of which
he sent to the libraries of America. John Walter submitted
his plan of logographic printing to Franklin in December,

1783-

In France he corresponded with Didot, who got from him
his first notion of stereotyping, and with Pierres (Impr Ordre
du Roi), to whom he gave the special paper upon which to
print his "Manuel d'Epictete en Grec," and with Fournier,
the celebrated type founder and publisher of a "Manuel
Typographique." He was proud of his ink, which preserves
to-day its glossy blackness, and compared it with each new
ink that he saw advertised. Jacques Besse wrote to him
about the preparation of durable inks and told him of the
process employed in England by which coloured maps were
produced on handkerchiefs, London in red on one side, and
Paris in blue on the other !

His business relations with James Parker, of Woodbury,
New Jersey, led to much correspondence with that weeping
philosopher, whose letters are a constant wail of distress.
He appears beset with difficulties, always ill and poor. He
complains of the great cost of living : to go naked and to pay
no debts seems to be the only way to solve the problem of
life. "Our friend Chew of New London," he says, "is the
compleatest parrier of a Dun that I have any occasion to
treat of." Parker complains that he is the victim of the
most contrary troubles — " Gout and poverty at once ! Are

216 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

they not inconsistent?" "A little more struggling through
life will probably carry me out of it," and so he goes on
with his jeremiads until Franklin is obliged to tell him that
he is hurt by his "voluminous complaints."

An Englishman, William Parsons, wrote to Franklin from
Dieppe, asking him to answer in English as he was a "poor
proficient in the French language." The same might be said
of Franklin. He acquired the conversational use of French
after he had passed his seventieth year, and was never at ease
in speech or correct in writing the language. He wrote
to Felix Nogaret that his grandson was the better master
of French, but for his own poor part he must write in Eng-
lish, of which he had no doubt that Nogaret would grasp the
meaning. The other commissioners were less familiar with
the language. Jefferson said, "I understand the French so
imperfectly as to be uncertain whether those to whom I speak
and myself mean the same thing" (August 16, 1784). And
Beaumarchais wrote to Vergennes (August 13, 1776) that
he had been assured by Mr. Deane that he never opened his
mouth before the English people he met in Paris, sarcastically
adding, "We must conclude from this that he is the most
silent man in France, for I defy him to say six consecutive
words before Frenchmen."

Franklin rarely attempted to write a business or official
letter in French, but he frequently ventured in carrying on
his social correspondence. After such an attempt, when he
had lamented his blunders, Mme. Brillon wrote to him:
" My good papa, why do you say that you write French badly,
that your pleasantries in that language are only nonsense?
To make an academic discourse one must be a good gram-
marian, but to write to our friends all we need is a heart,

CORRESPONDENCE 217

and you combine with the best heart, when you wish, the
soundest moral teaching, a lively imagination, and that droll
roguishness which shows that the wisest of men allows at
each instant his wisdom to be broken against the rocks of
femininity." Still less familiar was he with other languages,
though he read with some facility Latin, Italian, Spanish, and
German. It was difficult for him to read German script,
and letters in that language he was accustomed to send to
a fair friend, saying "M. Franklin prie sa fidele Interprete
de jetter ses beaux Yeux sur ces ecrits Allemands, et de lui
dire a la premiere rencontre, leur contenu en peu de mots."
Among the serious correspondence of an official and scien-
tific nature are bundles of dainty little notes in feminine
caligraphy, smelling faintly of perfume and full of roguery.
Hundreds of letters turn up addressed to "tres cher papa,"
"Dear American father," "amiable papa," and full of art-
fulness and mingled French and English, "Je vous envoye
a sweet kiss, dear Papa, envoyer moi en revanche, un Mot de
Reponse." Harassed as he was by business cares, and
weighted with official burdens, old and gouty and physically
indolent, Franklin escaped from the anxieties of his station
and unbent from the cares of state, in the cheerful compan-
ionship of fair and witty women. This correspondence has
been hitherto neglected. But it represents an essential phase
of Franklin's life and liberal portions of it are printed in these
volumes. To know the real and many-sided Franklin, we
must seek him in the laboratory of Lavoisier, in the cabinet
of Comte de Vergennes, and in the merry salon of Mme.
Helve*tius, — "our lady of Auteuil."

THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY

i. FRANKLIN'S DRAFT SCHEME OF THE
AUTOBIOGRAPHY

[Copie d'un Projet ires Curieux de Benjamin Franklin —
iere Esquisse de ses Memoires. Les additions a Vencre
rouge sont de la main de Franklin.}1

My writing. Mrs. Dogood's letters. Differences arise be-
tween my Brother and me (his temper and mine) ; their cause
in general. His Newspaper. The Prosecution he suffered.
My Examination. Vote of Assembly. His manner of evad-
ing it. Whereby I became free. My attempt to get employ
with other Printers. He prevents me. Our frequent plead-
ings before our Father. The final Breach. My Induce-
ments to quit Boston. Manner of coming to a Resolution.
My leaving him and going to New York (return to eating
flesh) ; thence to Pennsylvania. The journey, and its events
on the Bay, at Amboy. The road. Meet with Dr. Brown.
His character. His great work. At Burlington. The Good
Woman. On the River. My Arrival at Philadelphia. First
Meal and first Sleep. Money left. Employment. Lodg-
ing. First acquaintance with my afterward Wife. With
J. Ralph. With Keimer. Their characters. Osborne.
Watson. The Governor takes notice of me. The Occasion

1 This memorandum, probably in the handwriting of M. le Veillard, im-
mediately precedes the Outline in the MS. — B.

222 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

and Manner. His character. Offers to set me up. My
return to Boston. Voyage and accidents. Reception. My
Father dislikes the proposal. I return to New York and
Philadelphia. Governor Burnet. J. Collins. The Money for
Vernon. The Governor's Deceit. Collins not finding em-
ployment goes to Barbados much in my Debt. Ralph and I go
to England. Disappointment of Governor's Letters. Colonel
French his Friend. Cornwallis's Letters. Cabbin. Den-
ham. Hamilton. Arrival in England. Get employment. Ralph
not. He is an expense to me. Adventures in England. Write
a Pamphlet and print 100. Schemes. Lyons. Dr. Pember-
ton. My diligence, and yet poor through Ralph. My Land-
lady. Her character. Wygate. Wilkes. Gibber. Plays.
Books I borrowed. Preachers I heard. Redmayne. At
Watts's. Temperance. Ghost. Conduct and Influence
among the Men. Persuaded by Mr. Denham to return with
him to Philadelphia and be his clerk. Our voyage and arri-
val. My resolutions in Writing. My Sickness. His Death.
Found D. R. married. Go to work again with Keimer.
Terms. His ill-usage of me. My Resentment. Saying of
Decow. My Friends at Burlington. Agreement with H.
Meredith to set up in Partnership. Do so. Success with
the Assembly. Hamilton's Friendship. Sewell's History.
Gazette. Paper money. Webb. Writing Busy Body.
Breintnal. Godfrey. His character. Suit against us. Offer
of my Friends, Coleman and Grace. Continue the Business,
and M. goes to Carolina. Pamphlet on Paper Money. Ga-
zette from Keimer. Junto credit; its plan. Marry. Li-
brary erected. Manner of conducting the project. Its plan
and utility. Children. Almanac. The use I made of it.
Great industry. Constant study. Father's Remark and

DRAFT SCHEME OF THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY 223

Advice upon Diligence. Carolina Partnership. Learn
French and German. Journey to Boston after ten years.
Affection of my Brother. His Death, and leaving me his Son.
Art of Virtue. Occasion. City Watch amended. Post-
office. Spotswood. Bradford's Behaviour. Clerk of As-
sembly. Lose one of my Sons. Project of subordinate
Juntos. Write occasionally in the papers. Success in Busi-
ness. Fire companies. Engines. Go again to Boston in
1743. See Dr. Spence. Whitefield. My connection with
him. His generosity to me. My return. Church Differ-
ences. My part in them. Propose a College. Not then
prosecuted. Propose and establish a Philosophical Society.
War. Electricity. My first knowledge of it. Partnership
with D. Hall, etc. Dispute in Assembly upon Defence.
Project for it. Plain Truth. Its success. Ten thousand
Men raised and disciplined. Lotteries. Battery built. New
Castle. My influence in the Council. Colours, Devices, and
Mottos. Ladies' Military Watch. Quakers chosen of the
Common Council. Put in the commission of the peace.
Logan fond of me. His Library. Appointed Postmaster-
General. Chosen Assemblyman. Commissioner to treat
with Indians at Carlisle and at Easton. Project and
establish Academy. Pamphlet on it. Journey to Boston.
At Albany. Plan of union of the colonies. Copy of it.
Remarks upon it. It fails, and how. Journey to Boston in
1754. Disputes about it in our Assembly. My part in them.
New Governor. Disputes with him. His character and say-
ings to me. Chosen Alderman. Project of Hospital. My
share hi it. Its success. Boxes. Made a Commissioner
of the Treasury. My commission to defend the frontier
counties. Raise Men and build Forts. Militia Law of my

224 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

drawing. Made Colonel. Parade of my Officers. Offence
to Proprietor. Assistance to Boston Ambassadors. Journey
with Shirley, etc. Meet with Braddock. Assistance to him.
To the Officers of his Army. Furnish him with Forage. His
concessions to me and character of me. Success of my Elec-
trical Experiments. Medal sent me. Present Royal Society,
and Speech of President. Denny's Arrival and Courtship to
me. His character. My service to the Army in the affair of
Quarters. Disputes about the Proprietor's Taxes continued.
Project for paving the City. I am sent to England. Nego-
tiation there. Canada delenda est. My Pamphlet. Its recep-
tion and effect. Projects drawn from me concerning the Con-
quest. Acquaintance made and their services to me — Mrs.
S. M. Small, Sir John P., Mr. Wood, Sargent, Strahan, and
others. Their characters. Doctorate from Edinburgh, St.
Andrew's. Doctorate from Oxford. Journey to Scotland.
Lord Leicester. Mr. Prat. De Grey. Jackson. State of
Affairs in England. Delays. Eventful Journey into Hol-
land and Flanders. Agency from Maryland. Son's ap-
pointment. My Return. Allowance and thanks. Journey
to Boston. John Penn, Governor. My conduct toward
him. The Paxton Murders. My Pamphlet. Rioters march
to Philadelphia. Governor retires to my House. My con-
duct. Sent out to the Insurgents. Turn them back. Little
thanks. Disputes revived. Resolutions against continuing
under Proprietary Government. Another Pamphlet. Cool
thoughts. Sent again to England with Petition. Negotia-
tion there. Lord H. His character. Agencies from New
Jersey, Georgia, Massachusetts. Journey into Germany,
1766. Civilities received there. Gottingen Observations.
Ditto into France in 1767. Ditto in 1769. Entertainment

DRAFT SCHEME OF THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY 225

there at the Academy. Introduced to the King and the
Mesdames, Mad. Victoria and Mrs. Lamagnon. Due de
Chaulnes, M. Beaumont, Le Roy, D'Alibard, Nollet. See
Journals. Holland. Reprint my papers and add many.
Books presented to me from many authors. My Book trans-
lated into French. Lightning Kite. Various Discoveries.
My manner of prosecuting that Study. King of Denmark
invites me to dinner. Recollect my Father's Proverb. Stamp
Act. My opposition to it. Recommendation of J. Hughes.
Amendment of it. Examination in Parliament. Reputation
it gave me. Caressed by Ministry. Charles Townshend's
Act. Opposition to it. Stoves and chimney-plates. Ar-
monica. Acquaintance with Ambassadors. Russian Inti-
mation. Writing in newspapers. Glasses from Germany.
Grant of Land in Nova Scotia. Sickness. Letters to
America returned hither. The consequences. Insurance
Office. My character. Costs me nothing to be civil to in-
feriors; a good deal to be submissive to superiors, etc., etc.
Farce of Perpetual Motion. Writing for Jersey Assembly.1
Hutchinson's Letters. Temple. Suit in Chancery. Abuse
before the Privy Council. Lord Hillsborough's character
and conduct. Lord Dartmouth. Negotiation to prevent
the War. Return to America. Bishop of St. Asaph. Con-
gress. Assembly. Committee of Safety. Chevaux-de-frise.
Sent to Boston, to the Camp. To Canada, to Lord Howe.
To France. Treaty, etc.

1 To this point the projet is in a strange and clerkly hand. The remainder
is in the handwriting of Franklin. — B.

VOL. I — Q

2. THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY1

TWYFORD, at the Bishop of St. Asapfrs, 1771.*
DEAR SON: I have ever had pleasure in obtaining any
little anecdotes of my ancestors. You may remember the
inquiries I made among the remains of my relations when
you were with me in England, and the journey I undertook
for that purpose. Imagining it may be equally agreeable
to8 you to know the circumstances of my life, many of which
you are yet unacquainted with, and expecting the enjoyment
of a week's uninterrupted leisure in my present country re-
tirement, I sit down to write them for you. To which I have
besides some other inducements. Having emerged from the
poverty and obscurity in which I was born and bred, to a
state of affluence and some degree of reputation in the world,
and having gone so far through life with a considerable share
of felicity, the conducing means I made use of, which with
the blessing of God so well succeeded, my posterity may like
to know, as they may find some of them suitable to their
own situations, and therefore fit to be imitated.

1 The text adopted in this edition is that of Mr. John Bigelow, and is a
faithful copy of the original manuscript, differing from it only in the fact that
no attention has been paid to Franklin's practice of writing nearly every noun
with a capital letter. — ED.

a The country-seat of Bishop Shipley, the "good bishop," as Dr. Franklin
used to style him. — B.

» After the words "agreeable to" the words "some of" were interlined and
afterward effaced. — B.
THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY 227

That felicity, when I reflected on it, has induced me some-
times to say, that were it offered to my choice, I should have
no objection to a repetition of the same life from its begin-
ning, only asking the advantages authors have in a second
edition to correct some faults of the first. So I might, be-
sides correcting the faults, change some sinister accidents
and events of it for others more favourable. But though this
were denied, I should still accept the offer. Since such a
repetition is not to be expected, the next thing most like liv-
ing one's life over again seems to be a recollection of that
life, and to make that recollection as durable as possible by
putting it down in writing.

Hereby, too, I shall indulge the inclination so natural in
old men, to be talking of themselves and their own past
actions; and I shall indulge it without being tiresome to
others, who, through respect to age, might conceive them-
selves obliged to give me a hearing, since this may be read
or not as any one pleases. And, lastly (I may as well con-
fess it, since my denial of it will be believed by nobody), per-
haps I shall a good deal gratify my own vanity. Indeed, I
scarce ever heard or saw the introductory words, "Without
vanity I may say," etc., but some vain thing immediately
followed. Most people dislike vanity in others, whatever
share they have of it themselves; but I give it fair quarter
wherever I meet with it, being persuaded that it is often
productive of good to the possessor, and to others that are
within his sphere of action ; and therefore, in many cases, it
would not be altogether absurd if a man were to thank God
for his vanity among the other comforts of life.

And now I speak of thanking God, I desire with all hu-
mility to acknowledge that I owe the mentioned happiness

228 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

of my past life to His kind providence, which lead me to the
means I used and gave them success. My belief of this in-
duces me to hope, though I must not presume, that the same
goodness will still be exercised toward me, in continuing that
happiness, or enabling me to bear a fatal reverse, which I
may experience as others have done; the complexion of my
future fortune being known to Him only in whose power it is
to bless to us even our afflictions.

The notes one of my uncles (who had the same kind of
curiosity in collecting family anecdotes) once put into my
hands, furnished me with several particulars relating to our
ancestors. From these notes I learned that the family had
lived in the same village, Ecton, in Northamptonshire, for
three hundred years, and how much longer he knew not
(perhaps from the time when the name of Franklin, that
before was the name of an order of people, was assumed by
them as a surname when others took surnames all over the
kingdom), on a freehold of about thirty acres, aided by the
smith's business, which had continued in the family till his
time, the eldest son being always bred to that business; a
custom which he and my father followed as to their eldest
sons. When I searched the registers at Ecton, I found an
account of their births, marriages and burials from the year
1555 only, there being no registers kept in that parish at any
time preceding. By that register I perceived that I was the
youngest son of the youngest son for five generations back.
My grandfather Thomas, who was born in 1598, lived at
Ecton till he grew too old to follow business longer, when he
went to live with his son John, a dyer at Banbury, in Ox-
fordshire, with whom my father served an apprenticeship.
There my grandfather died and lies buried. We saw his

THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY 229

gravestone in 1758. His eldest son Thomas b'ved in the
house at Ecton, and left it with the land to his only child, a
daughter, who, with her husband, one Fisher, of Welling-
borough, sold it to Mr. Isted, now lord of the manor there.
My grandfather had four sons that grew up, viz. : Thomas,
John, Benjamin and Josiah. I will give you what account
I can of them at this distance from my papers, and if these
are not lost in my absence, you will among them find many
more particulars.

Thomas was bred a smith under his father; but, being
ingenious, and encouraged in learning (as all my brothers
were) by an Esquire Palmer, then the principal gentleman
in that parish, he qualified himself for the business of scriv-
ener ; became a considerable man in the county ; was a chief
mover of all public- spirited undertakings for the county or
town of Northampton, and his own village, of which many
instances were related of him; and much taken notice of
and patronized by the then Lord Halifax. He died in 1702,
January 6, old style, just four years to a day before I was
born. The account we received of his life and character
from some old people at Ecton, I remember, struck you as
something extraordinary, from its similarity to what you
knew of mine. "Had he died on the same day," you said,
"one might have supposed a transmigration."

John was bred a dyer, I believe of woollens. Benjamin
was bred a silk dyer, serving an apprenticeship at London.
He was an ingenious man. I remember him well, for when
I was a boy he came over to my father in Boston, and lived
in the house with us some years. He lived to a great age.
His grandson, Samuel Franklin, now lives in Boston. He
left behind him two quarto volumes, MS., of his own poetry,

230 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

consisting of little occasional pieces addressed to his friends
and relations, of which the following, sent to me, is a speci-
men.1 He had formed a short-hand of his own, which he
taught me, but, never practising it, I have now forgot it. I
was named after this uncle, there being a particular affection
between him and my father. He was very pious, a great
attender of sermons of the best preachers, which he took
down in his short-hand, and had with him many volumes of
them. He was also much of a politician; too much, per-
haps, for his station. There fell lately into my hands, in
London, a collection he had made of all the principal pam-
phlets relating to public affairs, from 1641 to 1717; many of
the volumes are wanting as appears by the numbering, but
there still remain eight volumes in folio, and twenty-four in
quarto and in octavo. A dealer in old books met with them,
and knowing me by my sometimes buying of him, he brought
them to me. It seems my uncle must have left them here
when he went to America, which was above fifty years since.
There are many of his notes in the margins.

This obscure family of ours was early in the Reformation,
and continued Protestants through the reign of Queen Mary,
when they were sometimes in danger of trouble on account
of their zeal against popery. They had got an English Bible,
and to conceal and secure it, it was fastened open with tapes
under and within the cover of a joint-stool. When my great-
great-grandfather read it to his family, he turned up the
joint-stool upon his knees, turning over the leaves then under
the tapes. One of the children stood at the door to give no-
tice if he saw the apparitor coming, who was an officer of the

1 "Here follows in the margin the words, in brackets, 'here insert it,' but
the poetry is not given." — B.

THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY 231

spiritual court. In that case the stool was turned down
again upon its feet, when the Bible remained concealed under
it as before. This anecdote I had from my uncle Benjamin.
The family continued all of the Church of England till about
the end of Charles the Second's reign, when some of the min-
isters that had been outed for non-conformity holding con-
venticles in Northamptonshire, Benjamin and Josiah adhered
to them, and so continued all their lives : the rest of the fam-
ily remained with the Episcopal Church.

Josiah, my father, married young, and carried his wife
with three children into New England, about 1682. The
conventicles having been forbidden by law, and frequently
disturbed, induced some considerable men of his acquaint-
ance to remove to that country, and he was prevailed with
to accompany them thither, where they expected to enjoy
their mode of religion with freedom. By the same wife he
had four children more born there, and by a second wife ten
more, in all seventeen ; of which I remember thirteen sitting
at one time at his table, who all grew up to be men and
women, and married ; I was the youngest son, and the young-
est child but two, and was born in Boston, New England.
My mother, the second wife, was Abiah Folger, daughter of
Peter Folger, one of the first settlers of New England, of
whom honorable mention is made by Cotton Mather, in his
church history of that country, entitled Magnalia Christi
Americana, as "a godly, learned Englishman" if I remember
the words rightly. I have heard that he wrote sundry small
occasional pieces, but only one of them was printed, which I
saw now many years since. It was written in 1675, in tne
home-spun verse of that time and people, and addressed to
those then concerned in the government there. It was in

232 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

favour of liberty of conscience, and in behalf of the Baptists,
Quakers, and other sectaries that had been under persecu-
tion, ascribing the Indian wars, and other distresses that had
befallen the country, to that persecution, as so many judg-
ments of God to punish so heinous an offense, and exhorting
a repeal of those uncharitable laws. The whole appeared
to me as written with a good deal of decent plainness and
manly freedom. The six concluding lines I remember, though
I have forgotten the two first of the stanza ; but the purport
of them was, that his censures proceeded from good-will, and,
therefore, he would be known to be the author.

" Because to be a libeller (says he)

I hate it with my heart ;
From Sherburne l town, where now I dwell

My name I do put here ;
Without offense your real friend,

It is Peter Folgier."2

My elder brothers were all put apprentices to different
trades. I was put to the grammar-school at eight years of age,
my father intending to devote me, as the tithe of his sons, to
the service of the Church. My early readiness in learning
to read (which must have been very early, as I do not remem-
ber when I could not read), and the opinion of all his friends,
that I should certainly make a good scholar, encouraged him
in this purpose of his. My uncle Benjamin, too, approved
of it, and proposed to give me all his short-hand volumes of
sermons, I suppose as a stock to set up with, if I would learn

1 Sherburne is now known by the name of Nantucket.

2 From "A Looking-Glass for the Times; or The Former Spirit of New
England Revived in this Generation," by Peter Folger (1617-1690). The
verses are printed in a pamphlet of fourteen pages, dated April 23, 1676. — ED.

THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY 233

his character. I continued, however, at the grammar-school
not quite one year, though in that time I had risen gradually
from the middle of the class of that year to be the head of it,
and farther was removed into the next class above it, in order
to go with that into the third at the end of the year. But my
father, in the meantime, from a view of the expense of a col-
lege education, which having so large a family he could not
well afford, and the mean living many so educated were after-
wards able to obtain — reasons that he gave to his friends in
my hearing — altered his first intention, took me from the
grammar-school, and sent me to a school for writing and
arithmetic, kept by a then famous man, Mr. George Brownell,
very successful in his profession generally, and that by mild,
encouraging methods. Under him I acquired fair writing
pretty soon, but I failed in the arithmetic, and made no prog-
ress in it. At ten years old I was taken home to assist my
father in his business, which was that of a tallow-chandler
and sope-boiler; a business he was not bred to, but had
assumed on his arrival in New England, and on finding his
dying trade would not maintain his family, being in little re-
quest. Accordingly, I was employed in cutting wick for the
candles, filling the dipping mold and the molds for cast can-
dles, attending the shop, going of errands, etc.

I disliked the trade, and had a strong inclination for the
sea, but my father declared against it ; however, living near
the water, I was much in and about it, learnt early to swim
well, and to manage boats; and when in a boat or canoe
with other boys, I was commonly allowed to govern, espe-
cially in any case of difficulty; and upon other occasions I
was generally a leader among the boys, and sometimes led
them into scrapes, of which I will mention one instance, as

234 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

it shows an early projecting public spirit, tho' not then justly
conducted.

There was a salt-marsh that bounded part of the mill-pond,
on the edge of which, at high water, we used to stand to fish
for minnows. By much trampling, we had made it a mere
quagmire. My proposal was to build a wharff there fit for
us to stand upon, and I showed my comrades a large heap
of stones, which were intended for a new house near the
marsh, and which would very well suit our purpose. Ac-
cordingly, in the evening, when the workmen were gone, I
assembled a number of my play-fellows, and working with
them diligently like so many emmets, sometimes two or three
to a stone, we brought them all away and built our little
wharff. The next morning the workmen were surprised at
missing the stones, which were found in our wharff. In-
quiry was made after the removers; we were discovered
and complained of; several of us were corrected by our
fathers ; and, though I pleaded the usefulness of the work,
mine convinced me that nothing was useful which was not
honest.

I think you may like to know something of his person and
character. He had an excellent constitution of body, was of
middle stature, but well set, and very strong; he was ingen-
ious, could draw prettily, was skilled a little in music, and
had a clear pleasing voice, so that when he played psalm
tunes on his violin and sung withal, as he sometimes did in
an evening after the business of the day was over, it was
extremely agreeable to hear. He had a mechanical genius
too, and, on occasion, was very handy in the use of other
tradesmen's tools; but his great excellence lay in a sound
understanding and solid judgment in prudential matters,

THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY 235

both in private and publick affairs. In the latter, indeed,
he was never employed, the numerous family he had to edu-
cate and the straitness of his circumstances keeping him close
to his trade ; but I remember well his being frequently visited
by leading people, who consulted him for his opinion in affairs
of the town or of the church he belonged to, and showed a
good deal of respect for his judgment and advice: he was
also much consulted by private persons about their affairs
when any difficulty occurred, and frequently chosen an arbi-
trator between contending parties. At his table he liked to
have, as often as he could, some sensible friend or neighbour
to converse with, and always took care to start some ingen-
ious or useful topic for discourse, which might tend to im-
prove the minds of his children. By this means he turned
our attention to what was good, just, and prudent in the con-
duct of life ; and little or no notice was ever taken of what
related to the victuals on the table, whether it was well or
ill dressed, in or out of season, of good or bad flavour, prefer-
able or inferior to this or that other thing of the kind, so that
I was bro't up in such a perfect inattention to those matters
as to be quite indifferent what kind of food was set before
me, and so unobservant of it, that to this day if I am asked
I can scarce tell a few hours after dinner what I dined upon.
This has been a convenience to me in travelling, where my
companions have been sometimes very unhappy for want of
a suitable gratification of their more delicate, because better
instructed, tastes and appetites.

My mother had likewise an excellent constitution: she
suckled all her ten children. I never knew either my father
or mother to have any sickness but that of which they dy'd,
he at 89, and she at 85 years of age. They lie buried

236 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

together at Boston, where I some years since placed a marble
over their grave, with this inscription :

JOSIAH FRANKLIN

And

ABIAH his wife,

Lie here interred.

They lived lovingly together in wedlock

Fifty-five years.

Without an estate, or any gainful employment,
By constant labor and industry,

With God's blessing,
They maintained a large family

Comfortably,

And brought up thirteen children
And seven grandchildren

Reputably.

From this instance, reader,
Be encouraged to diligence in thy calling,

And distrust not Providence.

He was a pious and prudent man ;

She, a discreet and virtuous woman.

Their youngest son,
In filial regard to their memory,

Places this stone.

J. F. born 1655, died 1744, -ditat 89.
A. F. born 1667, died 1752, 85. 1

1 A more durable monument was erected over the grave in 1827 by the
voluntary subscriptions of a large number of the citizens of Boston. The
corner-stone was laid on the I5th of June, 1827, and an address appropriate
to the occasion was pronounced by General Henry A. S. Dearborn.

The monument is an obelisk of granite, twenty-one feet high, which rests
on a square base measuring seven feet on each side and two feet in height.
The obelisk is composed of five massive blocks of granite placed one above
another. On one side is the name of FRANKLIN in large bronze letters, and
a little below is a tablet of bronze, thirty-two inches long and sixteen wide,
sunk into the stone. On this tablet is engraved Dr. Franklin's original in-
scription, as quoted in the text, and beneath it are the following lines : —

THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY 237

By my rambling digressions I perceive myself to be grown
old. I us'd to write more methodically. But one does not
dress for private company as for a publick ball. 'Tis per-
haps only negligence.

To return : I continued thus employed in my father's busi-
ness for two years, that is, till I was twelve years old ; and my
brother John, who was bred to that business, having left my
father, married, and set up for himself at Rhode Island, there
was all appearance that I was destined to supply his place,
and become a tallow-chandler. But my dislike to the trade
continuing, my father was under apprehensions that if he did
not find one for me more agreeable, I should break away and
get to sea, as his son Josiah had done, to his great vexation.
He therefore sometimes took me to walk with him, and see
joiners, bricklayers, turners, braziers, etc., at their work, that
he might observe my inclination, and endeavour to fix it on

"The marble tablet,

Bearing the above inscription,

Having been dilapidated by the ravages of time,

A number of citizens,

Entertaining the most profound veneration

For the memory of the illustrious

Benjamin Franklin,

And desirous of reminding succeeding generations,

That he was born in Boston, A. D. MDCCVI,

Erected this

Obelisk

Over the graves of his parents.
MDCCCXXVII."

A silver plate was deposited under the corner-stone, with an inscription
commemorative of the occasion, a part of which is as follows : " This Monu-
ment was erected over the Remains of the Parents of Benjamin Franklin by
the Citizens of Boston, from Respect to the Private Character and Public
Services of this Illustrious Patriot and Philosopher, and for the many Tokens
of his affectionate Attachment to his native Town." — S.

238 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

some trade or other on land. It has ever since been a pleas-
ure to me to see good workmen handle their tools; and it
has been useful to me, having learnt so much by it as to be
able to do little jobs myself in my house when a workman
could not readily be got, and to construct little machines for
my experiments, while the intention of making the experi-
ment was fresh and warm in my mind. My father at last
fixed upon the cutler's trade, and my uncle Benjamin's son
Samuel, who was bred to that business in London, being
about that time established in Boston, I was sent to be
with him some time on liking. But his expectations of a
fee with me displeasing my father, I was taken home again.
From a child I was fond of reading, and all the little money
that came into my hands was ever laid out in books. Pleased
with the Pilgrim's Progress, my first collection was of John
Bunyan's works in separate little volumes. I afterward sold
them to enable me to buy R. Burton's Historical Collections ;
they were small chapmen's books, and cheap, 40 or 50 in all.
My father's little library consisted chiefly of books in polemic
divinity, most of which I read, and have since often regretted
that, at a time when I had such a thirst for knowledge, more
proper books had not fallen in my way, since it was now
resolved I should not be a clergyman. Plutarch's Lives there
was in which I read abundantly, and I still think that time
spent to great advantage. There was also a book of De
Foe's, called an Essay on Projects, and another of Dr. Ma-
ther's, called Essays to do Good,1 which perhaps gave me a
turn of thinking that had an influence on some of the princi-
pal future events of my life.

1 " Bonifacius. An Essay upon the Good that is to be Devised and De-
signed by those who desire to answer the Great End of Life, and to do good
while they live." Boston: 1710. — ED.

THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY 239

This bookish inclination at length determined my father
to make me a printer, though he had already one son (James)
of that profession. In 1717 my brother James returned from
England with a press and letters to set up his business in
Boston. I liked it much better than that of my father, but
still had a hankering for the sea. To prevent the appre-
hended effect of such an inclination, my father was impa-
tient to have me bound to my brother. I stood out some
time, but at last was persuaded, and signed the indentures
when I was yet but twelve years old. I was to serve as an
apprentice till I was twenty-one years of age, only I was to
be allowed journeyman's wages during the last year. In a
little time I made great proficiency in the business, and
became a useful hand to my brother. I now had access to
better books. An acquaintance with the apprentices of book-
sellers enabled me sometimes to borrow a small one, which
I was careful to return soon and clean. Often I sat up in
my room reading the greatest part of the night, when the
book was borrowed in the evening and to be returned early
in the morning, lest it should be missed or wanted.

And after some time an ingenious tradesman, Mr. Matthew
Adams, who had a pretty collection of books, and who fre-
quented our printing-house, took notice of me, invited me to
his library, and very kindly lent me such books as I chose
to read. I now took a fancy to poetry, and made some little
pieces; my brother, thinking it might turn to account, en-
couraged me and put me on composing occasional ballads.
One was called The Lighthouse Tragedy, and contained an
account of the drowning of Captain Worthilake, with his
two daughters : the other was a sailor's song, on the taking
of Teach (or Blackbeard) the pirate. They were wretched

240 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

stuff, in the Grub-street-ballad style; and when they were
printed he sent me about the town to sell them. The first
sold wonderfully, the event being recent, having made a great
noise. This flattered my vanity ; but my father discouraged
me by ridiculing my performances, and telling me verse-
makers were generally beggars. So I escaped being a poet,
most probably a very bad one ; but as prose writing has been
of great use to me in the course of my life, and was a princi-
pal means of my advancement, I shall tell you how, in such
a situation, I acquired what little ability I have in that way.

There was another bookish lad in the town, John Collins
by name, with whom I was intimately acquainted. We
sometimes disputed, and very fond we were of argument,
and very desirous of confuting one another, which disputa-
tious turn, by the way, is apt to become a very bad habit,
making people often extremely disagreeable in company by
the contradiction that is necessary to bring it into practice;
and thence, besides souring and spoiling the conversation,
is productive of disgusts and, perhaps enmities where you
may have occasion for friendship. I had caught it by read-
ing my father's books of dispute about religion. Persons of
good sense, I have since observed, seldom fall into it, except
lawyers, university men, and men of all sorts that have been
bred at Edinborough.

A question was once, somehow or other, started between
Collins and me, of the propriety of educating the female sex
in learning, and their abilities for study. He was of opinion
that it was improper, and that they were naturally unequal
to it. I took the contrary side, perhaps a little for dispute's
sake. He was naturally more eloquent, had a ready plenty
of words ; and sometimes, as I thought, bore me down more

THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY 241

by his fluency than by the strength of his reasons. As we
parted without settling the point, and were not to see one
another again for some time, I sat down to put my argu-
ments in writing, which I copied fair and sent to him. He
answered, and I replied. Three or four letters of a side had
passed, when my father happened to find my papers and
read them. Without entering into the discussion, he took
occasion to talk to me about the manner of my writing; ob-
served that, though I had the advantage of my antagonist
in correct spelling and pointing (which I ow'd to the print-
ing-house), I fell far short in elegance of expression, in method
and in perspicuity, of which he convinced me by several in-
stances. I saw the justice of his remarks, and thence grew
more attentive to the manner in writing, and determined to
endeavour at improvement.

About this time I met with an odd volume of the Spectator.
It was the third. I had never before seen any of them. I
bought it, read it over and over, and was much delighted
with it. I thought the writing excellent, and wished, if pos-
sible, to imitate it. With this view I took some of the papers,
and, making short hints of the sentiment in each sentence,
laid them by a few days, and then, without looking at the
book, try'd to compleat the papers again, by expressing each
hinted sentiment at length, and as fully as it had been ex-
pressed before, in any suitable words that should come to
hand. Then I compared my Spectator with the original,
discovered some of my faults, and corrected them. But I
found I wanted a stock of words, or a readiness in recollect-
ing and using them, which I thought I should have acquired
before that time if I had gone on making verses; since the
continual occasion for words of the same import, but of dif-

VOL. I — R

242 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

ferent length, to suit the measure, or of different sound for
the rhyme, would have laid me under a constant necessity of
searching for variety, and also have tended to fix that variety
in my mind, and make me master of it. Therefore I took
some of the tales and turned them into verse; and, after a
time, when I had pretty well forgotten the prose, turned them
back again. I also sometimes jumbled my collections of
hints into confusion, and after some weeks endeavoured to
reduce them into the best order, before I began to form the
full sentences and compleat the paper. This was to teach
me method in the arrangement of thoughts. By comparing
my work afterwards with the original, I discovered many
faults and amended them ; but I sometimes had the pleasure
of fancying that, in certain particulars of small import, I had
been lucky enough to improve the method or the language,
and this encouraged me to think I might possibly in time
come to be a tolerable English writer, of which I was ex-
treamly ambitious. My time for these exercises and for
reading was at night, after work or before it began in the
morning, or on Sundays, when I contrived to be in the
printing-house alone, evading as much as I could the com-
mon attendance on public worship which my father used to
exact of me when I was under his care, and which indeed I
still thought a duty, though I could not, as it seemed to me,
afford time to practise it.

When about 16 years of age I happened to meet with a
book, written by one Try on, recommending a vegetable diet.1
I determined to go into it. My brother, being yet unmarried,

1 Thomas Tryon (1634-1703), "Pythagorean," author of "The Way to
Health, long Life and Happiness or a Discourse of Temperance," second
edition, London : 1691. — ED.

I THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY 243

did not keep house, but boarded himself and his apprentices
in another family. My refusing to eat flesh occasioned an
inconveniency, and I was frequently chid for my singularity.
I made myself acquainted with Tryon's manner of prepar-
ing some of his dishes, such as boiling potatoes or rice, mak-
ing hasty pudding, and a few others, and then proposed to
my brother, that if he would give me, weekly, half the money
he paid for my board, I would board myself. He instantly
agreed to it, and I presently found that I could save half
what he paid me. This was an additional fund for buying
books. But I had another advantage in it. My brother
and the rest going from the printing-house to their meals,
I remained there alone, and, despatching presently my light
repast, which often was no more than a bisket or a slice of
bread, a handful of raisins or a tart from the pastry-cook's,
and a glass of water, had the rest of the time till their return
for study, in which I made the greater progress, from that
greater clearness of head and quicker apprehension which
usually attend temperance in eating and drinking.

And now it was that, being on some occasion made
asham'd of my ignorance in figures, which I had twice failed
in learning when at school, I took Cocker's book of Arith-
metick, and went through the whole by myself with great ease.
I also read Seller's and Shermy's books of Navigation, and
became acquainted with the little geometry they contain;
but never proceeded far in that science. And I read about
this time Locke on Human Understanding, and the Art of
Thinking, by Messrs, du Port Royal.

While I was intent on improving my language, I met with
an English grammar (I think it was Greenwood's), at the
end of which there were two little sketches of the arts of

244 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

rhetoric and logic, the latter finishing with a specimen of a
dispute in the Socratic method; and soon after I procur'd
Xenophon's Memorable Things of Socrates, wherein there
are many instances of the same method. I was charm'd
with it, adopted it, dropt my abrupt contradiction and posi-
tive argumentation, and put on the humble inquirer and
doubter. And being then, from reading Shaftesbury and
Collins, become a real doubter in many points of our religious
doctrine, I found this method safest for myself and very
embarassing to those against whom I used it; therefore I
took a delight in it, practis'd it continually, and grew very
artful and expert in drawing people, even of superior knowl-
edge, into concessions, the consequences of which they did
not foresee, entangling them in difficulties out of which they
could not extricate themselves, and so obtaining victories
that neither myself nor my cause always deserved. I con-
tinu'd this method some few years, but gradually left it,
retaining only the habit of expressing myself in terms of
modest diffidence; never using, when I advanced anything
that may possibly be disputed, the words certainly, un-
doubtedly, or any others that give the air of positiveness to
an opinion ; but rather say, I conceive or apprehend a thing
to be so and so ; it appears to me, or 7 should think it so or
so, for such and such reasons; or / imagine it to be so; or
it is so, if I am not mistaken. This habit, I believe, has been
of great advantage to me when I have had occasion to in-
culcate my opinions, and persuade men into measures that
I have been from time to time engag'd in promoting; and,
as the chief ends of conversation are to inform or to be in-
formed, to please or to persuade, I wish well-meaning, sen-
sible men would not lessen their power of doing good by a

THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY 245

positive, assuming manner, that seldom fails to disgust,
tends to create opposition, and to defeat everyone of those
purposes for which speech was given to us, to wit, giving or
receiving information or pleasure. For, if you would in-
form, a positive and dogmatical manner in advancing your
sentiments may provoke contradiction and prevent a candid
attention. If you wish information and improvement from
the knowledge of others, and yet at the same time express
yourself as firmly fix'd in your present opinions, modest,
sensible men, who do not love disputation, will probably
leave you undisturbed in the possession of your error. And
by such a manner, you can seldom hope to recommend your-
self in pleasing your hearers, or to persuade those whose
concurrence you desire. Pope says, judiciously:

" Men should be taught as if you taught them not,
And things unknown proposed as things forgot ; "

farther recommending to us

" To speak, tho1 sure, with seeming diffidence."

And he might have coupled with this line that which he has
coupled with another, I think, less properly,

" For want of modesty is want of sense."
If you ask, Why less properly ? I must repeat the lines,

" Immodest words admit of no defense,
For want of modesty is want of sense."

Now, is not want of sense (where a man is so unfortunate as
to want it) some apology for his want of modesty? and
would not the lines stand more justly thus?

" Immodest words admit but this defense,
That want of modesty is want of sense."

This, however, I should submit to better judgments.

246 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

My brother had, in 1720 or 1721, begun to print a news-
paper. It was the second that appeared in America, and
was called the New England Courant.1 The only one before
it was the Boston News-Letter. I remember his being
dissuaded by some of his friends from the undertaking, as
not likely to succeed, one newspaper being, in their judgment,
enough for America. At this time there are not less
than five-and-twenty. He went on, however, with the under-
taking, and after having worked in composing the types and
printing off the sheets, I was employed to carry the papers
thro' the streets to the customers.

He had some ingenious men among his friends, who
amus'd themselves by writing little pieces for this paper,
which gain'd it credit and made it more in demand, and
these gentlemen often visited us. Hearing their conversa-
tions, and their accounts of the approbation their papers
were received with, I was excited to try my hand among them ;
but, being still a boy, and suspecting that my brother would
object to printing anything of mine in his paper if he knew it
to be mine, I contrived to disguise my hand, and, writing
an anonymous paper, I put it in at night under the door of
the printing-house. It was found in the morning, and com-
municated to his writing friends when they call'd in as usual.

1 This was written from recollection, and it is not surprising, that, after the
lapse of fifty years, the author's memory should have failed him in regard to a
fact of small importance. The New England Courant was the fourth news-
paper that appeared in America. The first number of the Boston News-
Letter was published April 24, 1 704. This was the first newspaper in America.
The Boston Gazette commenced December 21, 1719; the American Weekly
Mercury, at Philadelphia, December 22, 1719; the New England Courant,
August 21, 1721. Dr. Franklin's error of memory probably originated in the
circumstance of his brother having been the printer of the Boston Gazette,
when it was first established. This was the second newspaper published in
America. — S.

THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY 247

They read it, commented on it in my hearing, and I had the
exquisite pleasure of finding it met with their approbation,
and that, in their different guesses at the author, none were
named but men of some character among us for learning and
ingenuity. I suppose now that I was rather lucky in my
judges, and that perhaps they were not really so very good
ones as I then esteem'd them.

Encourag'd, however, by this, I wrote and convey'd in
the same way to the press several more papers which were
equally approv'd; and I kept my secret till my small fund
of sense for such performances was pretty well exhausted,
and then I discovered it, when I began to be considered a
little more by my brother's acquaintance, and in a manner
that did not quite please him, as he thought, probably with
reason, that it tended to make me too vain. And, perhaps,
this might be one occasion of the differences that we began
to have about this time. Though a brother, he considered
himself as my master, and me as his apprentice, and, accord-
ingly, expected the same services from me as he would from
another, while I thought he demean 'd me too much in some
he requir'd of me, who from a brother expected more indul-
gence. Our disputes were often brought before our father,
and I fancy I was either generally in the right, or else a better
pleader, because the judgment was generally in my favour.
But my brother was passionate, and had often beaten me, which
I took extreamly amiss ; and, thinking my apprenticeship very
tedious, I was continually wishing for some opportunity of
shortening it, which at length offered in a manner unexpected.1

1 1 fancy his harsh and tyrannical treatment of me might be a means of
impressing me with that aversion to arbitrary power that has stuck to me
through my whole life.

248 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

One of the pieces in our newspaper on some political
point, which I have now forgotten, gave offense to the
Assembly. He was taken up, censur'd, and imprison'd for
a month, by the speaker's warrant, I suppose, because he
would not discover his author. I too was taken up and
examin'd before the council; but, tho' I did not give them
any satisfaction, they content 'd themselves with admonish-
ing me, and dismissed me, considering me, perhaps, as an
apprentice, who was bound to keep his master's secrets.

During my brother's confinement, which I resented a
good deal, notwithstanding our private differences, I had
the management of the paper; and I made bold to give our
rulers some rubs in it, which my brother took very kindly,
while others began to consider me in an unfavourable light,
as a young genius that had a turn for libelling and satyr.
My brother's discharge was accompany'd with an order of
the House (a very odd one), that "James Franklin should
no longer print the paper called the New England C our ant."

There was a consultation held in our printing-house
among his friends, what he should do in this case. Some
proposed to evade the order by changing the name of the
paper ; but my brother, seeing inconveniences in that, it was
finally concluded on as a better way, to let it be printed for
the future under the name of BENJAMIN FRANKLIN ; and to
avoid the censure of the Assembly, that might fall on him as
still printing it by his apprentice, the contrivance was that
my old indenture should be return'd to me, with a full dis-
charge on the back of it, to be shown on occasion, but to
secure to him the benefit of my service, I was to sign new
indentures for the remainder of the term, which were to be
kept private. A very flimsy scheme it was; however, it

THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY 249

was immediately executed, and the paper went or accord-
ingly, under my name for several months.

At length, a fresh difference arising between my brother
and me, I took upon me to assert my freedom, presuming
that he would not venture to produce the new indentures.
It was not fair in me to take this advantage, and this I
therefore reckon one of the first errata of my life; but the
unfairness of it weighed little with me, when under the im-
pressions of resentment for the blows his passion too often
urged him to bestow upon me, though he was otherwise not
an ill-natur'd man: perhaps I was too saucy and provoking.

When he found I would leave him, he took care to prevent
my getting employment in any other printing-house of the
town, by going round and speaking to every master, who
accordingly refus'd to give me work. I then thought of going
to New York, as the nearest place where there was a printer ;
and I was rather inclin'd to leave Boston when I reflected
that I had already made myself a little obnoxious to the
governing party, and, from the arbitrary proceedings of the
Assembly in my brother's case, it was likely I might, if I
stay'd, soon bring myself into scrapes ; and farther, that my
indiscrete disputations about religion began to make me
pointed at with horror by good people as an infidel or atheist.
I determin'd on the point, but my father now siding with my
brother, I was sensible that, if I attempted to go openly,
means would be used to prevent me. My friend Collins,
therefore, undertook to manage a little for me. He agreed
with the captain of a New York sloop for my passage, under
the notion of my being a young acquaintance of his, that
had got a naughty girl with child, whose friends would com-
pel me to marry her, and therefore I could not appear or

250 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

come away publicly. So I sold some of my books to raise
a little money, was taken on board privately, and as we had
a fair wind, in three days I found myself in New York, near
300 miles from home, a boy of but 17, without the least
recommendation to, or knowledge of any person in the
place, and with very little money in my pocket.

My inclinations for the sea were by this time worne out,
or I might now have gratify'd them. But, having a trade,
and supposing myself a pretty good workman, I offer'd my
service to the printer in the place, old Mr. William Bradford,1
who had been the first printer in Pennsylvania, but removed
from thence upon the quarrel of George Keith. He could
give me no employment, having little to do, and help enough
already; but says he, "My son at Philadelphia has lately
lost his principal hand, Aquila Rose, by death; if you go
thither, I believe he may employ you." Philadelphia was
i oo miles further; I set out, however, in a boat for Amboy,
leaving my chest and things to follow me round by sea.

In crossing the bay, we met with a squall that tore our
rotten sails to pieces, prevented our getting into the Kill, and
drove us upon Long Island. In our way, a drunken Dutch-
man, who was a passenger too, fell overboard; when he
was sinking, I reached through the water to his shock pate,
and drew him up, so that we got him in again. His ducking
sobered him a little, and he went to sleep, taking first out of
his pocket a book, which he desir'd I would dry for him. It

1 William Bradford, born in Leicester, England, in 1658; died in New York,
May 23, 1752. In 1685 he set up his printing-press in Philadelphia, the third
one in the Colonies, and the first one south of New England. He sided with
Keith in his quarrel with the authorities and printed his "Appeal to the
People." He was arrested for seditious libel and his press and publications
were confiscated. He removed to New York in 1693. — ED.

THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY 251

proved to be my old favorite author, Bunyan's Pilgrim's
Progress, in Dutch, finely printed on good paper, with copper
cuts, a dress better than I had ever seen it wear in its own
language. I have since found that it has been translated
into most of the languages of Europe, and suppose it has been
more generally read than any other book, except perhaps the
Bible. Honest John was the first that I know of who mix'd
narration and dialogue; a method of writing very engaging
to the reader, who in the most interesting parts finds himself,
as it were, brought into the company and present at the dis-
course. De Foe in his Cruso, his Moll Flanders, Religious
Courtship, Family Instructor, and other pieces, has imitated
it with success; and Richardson has done the same in his
Pamela, etc.

When we drew near the island, we found it was at a place
where there could be no landing, there being a great surff on
the stony beach. So we dropt anchor, and swung round
towards the shore. Some people came down to the water
edge and hallow'd to us, as we did to them; but the wind
was so high, and the surff so loud, that we could not hear so
as to understand each other. There were canoes on the shore,
and we made signs, and hallow'd that they should fetch us;
but they either did not understand us, or thought it imprac-
ticable, so they went away, and night coming on, we had no
remedy but to wait till the wind should abate; and, in the
mean time, the boatman and I concluded to sleep, if we could ;
and so crowded into the scuttle, with the Dutchman, who
was still wet, and the spray beating over the head of our boat,
leak'd thro' to us, so that we were soon almost as wet as he.
In this manner we lay all night, with very little rest; but,
the wind abating the next day, we made a shift to reach

252 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

Amboy before night, having been thirty hours on the water,
without victuals, or any drink but a bottle of filthy rum, and
the water we sail'd on being salt.

In the evening I found myself very feverish, and went in to
bed; but, having read somewhere that cold water drank
plentifully was good for a fever, I follow'd the prescription,
sweat plentiful most of the night, my fever left me, and in the
morning, crossing the ferry, I proceeded on my journey on
foot, having fifty miles to Burlington, where I was told
I should find boats that would carry me the rest of the way
to Philadelphia.

It rained very hard all the day; I was thoroughly soak'd,
and by noon a good deal tired; so I stopt at a poor inn,
where I staid all night, beginning now to wish that I had
never left home. I cut so miserable a figure, too, that I
found, by the questions ask'd me, I was suspected to be
some runaway servant, and in danger of being taken up on
that suspicion. However, I proceeded the next day, and got
in the evening to an inn, within eight or ten miles of Burling-
ton, kept by one Dr. Brown. He entered into conversation
with me while I took some refreshment, and, finding I had
read a little, became very sociable and friendly. Our ac-
quaintance continu'd as long as he liv'd. He had been, I
imagine, an itinerant doctor, for there was no town in Eng-
land, or country in Europe, of which he could not give a
very particular account. He had some letters, and was
ingenious, but much of an unbeliever, and wickedly under-
took, some years after, to travestie the Bible in doggrel
verse, as Cotton had done Virgil.1 By this means he set

1 Charles Cotton (1630-1687), " Scarronides, or the First Book of Virgil
Travestie," 1664; reprinted with a travesty of the fourth book, in 1670. — ED.

THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY 253

many of the facts in a very ridiculous light, and might have
hurt weak minds if his work had been published; but it
never was.

At his house I lay that night, and the next morning reach'd
Burlington, but had the mortification to find that the regular
boats were gone a little before my coming, and no other
expected to go before Tuesday, this being Saturday; where-
fore I returned to an old woman in the town, of whom I had
bought gingerbread to eat on the water, and ask'd her advice.
She invited me to lodge at her house till a passage by water
should offer; and being tired with my foot travelling, I
accepted the invitation. She understanding I was a printer,
would have had me stay at that town and follow my business,
being ignorant of the stock necessary to begin with. She
was very hospitable, gave me a dinner of ox-cheek with great
good will, accepting only of a pot of ale in return; and I
thought myself fixed till Tuesday should come. However,
walking in the evening by the side of the river, a boat came
by, which I found was going towards Philadelphia, with
several people in her. They took me in, and, as there was
no wind, we row'd all the way; and about midnight, not
having yet seen the city, some of the company were confident
we must have passed it, and would row no farther ; the others
knew not where we were; so we put toward the shore, got
into a creek, landed near an old fence, with the rails of which
we made a fire, the night being cold, in October, and there
we remained till daylight. Then one of the company knew
the place to be Cooper's Creek, a little above Philadelphia,
which we saw as soon as we got out of the creek, and arriv'd
there about eight or nine o'clock on the Sunday morning,
and landed at the Market-street wharf.

254 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

I have been the more particular in this description of my
journey, and shall be so of my first entry into that city, that
you may in your mind compare such unlikely beginnings
with the figure I have since made there. I was in my work-
ing dress, my best clothes being to come round by sea. I
was dirty from my journey; my pockets were stuff d out
with shirts and stockings, and I knew no soul nor where
to look for lodging. I was fatigued with travelling, rowing,
and want of rest, I was very hungry; and my whole stock
of cash consisted of a Dutch dollar, and about a shilling in
copper. The latter I gave the people of the boat for my
passage, who at first refus'd it, on account of my rowing;
but I insisted on their taking it. A man being sometimes
more generous when he has but a little money than when
he has plenty, perhaps thro' fear of being thought to have
but little.

Then I walked up the street, gazing about till near the
market-house I met a boy with bread. I had made many a
meal on bread, and, inquiring where he got it, I went immedi-
ately to the baker's he directed me to, in Second-street, and
ask'd for bisket, intending such as we had in Boston ; but they,
it seems, were not made in Philadelphia. Then I asked for
a three-penny loaf, and was told they had none such. So
not considering or knowing the difference of money, and
the greater cheapness nor the names of his bread, I bad him
give me three-penny worth of any sort. He gave me, ac-
cordingly, three great puffy rolls. I was surpriz'd at the
quantity, but took it, and, having no room in my pockets,
walk'd off with a roll under each arm, and eating the other.
Thus I went up Market-street as far as Fourth-street, pass-
ing by the door of Mr. Read, my future wife's father ; when

THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY 255

she, standing at the door, saw me, and thought I made, as I
certainly did, a most awkward, ridiculous appearance. Then
I turned and went down Chestnut-street and part of Walnut-
street, eating my roll all the way, and, coming round, found
myself again at Market-street wharf, near the boat I came in,
to which I went for a draught of the river water ; and, being
filled with one of my rolls, gave the other two to a woman
and her child that came down the river in the boat with us,
and were waiting to go farther.

Thus refreshed, I walked again up the street, which by
this time had many clean-dressed people in it, who were all
walking the same way. I joined them, and thereby was led
into the great meeting-house of the Quakers near the market.
I sat down among them, and, after looking round awhile and
hearing nothing said, being very drowsy thro' labour and
want of rest the preceding night, I fell fast asleep, and con-
tinu'd so till the meeting broke up, when one was kind
enough to rouse me. This was, therefore, the first house I
was in, or slept in, in Philadelphia.

Walking down again toward the river, and, looking in the
faces of people, I met a young Quaker man, whose counte-
nance I lik'd, and, accosting him, requested he would tell
me where a stranger could get lodging. We were then near
the sign of the Three Mariners. "Here," says he, "is one
place that entertains strangers, but it is not a reputable
house; if thee wilt walk with me, I'll show thee a better."
He brought me to the Crooked Billet in Water-street. Here
I got a dinner ; and, while I was eating it, several sly questions
were asked me, as it seemed to be suspected from my youth
and appearance, that I might be some runaway.

After dinner, my sleepiness return'd, and being shown to

256 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

a bed, I lay down without undressing, and slept till six in
the evening, was call'd to supper, went to bed again very
early, and slept soundly till next morning. Then I made
myself as tidy as I could, and went to Andrew Bradford the
printer's. I found in the shop the old man his father, whom
I had seen at New York, and who, travelling on horseback,
had got to Philadelphia before me. He introduc'd me to
his son, who receiv'd me civilly, gave me a breakfast, but
told me he did not at present want a hand, being lately sup-
pli'd with one ; but there was another printer in town, lately
set up, one Keimer, who, perhaps, might employ me ; if not, I
should be welcome to lodge at his house, and he would give
me a little work to do now and then till fuller business should
offer.

The old gentleman said he would go with me to the new
printer; and when we found him, "Neighbour," says Brad-
ford, "I have brought to see you a young man of your busi-
ness; perhaps you may want such a one." He ask'd me
a few questions, put a composing stick in my hand to see
how I work'd, and then said he would employ me soon,
though he had just then nothing for me to do; and, taking
old Bradford, whom he had never seen before, to be one of
the town's people that had a good will for him, enter'd into
a conversation on his present undertaking and prospects;
while Bradford, not discovering that he was the other printer's
father, on Keimer' s saying he expected soon to get the great-
est part of the business into his own hands, drew him on by
artful questions, and starting little doubts, to explain all
his views, what interest he reli'd on, and in what manner he
intended to proceed. I, who stood by and heard all, saw
immediately that one of them was a crafty old sophister,

THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY 257

and the other a mere novice. Bradford left me with Keimer,
who was greatly surpris'd when I told him who the old man
was.

Keimer's printing-house, I found, consisted of an old
shatter'd press, and one small, worn-out font of English,
which he was then using himself, composing an Elegy on
Aquila Rose, before mentioned, an ingenious young man,
of excellent character, much respected in the town, clerk of
the Assembly, and a pretty poet. Keimer made verses too,
but very indifferently. He could not be said to write them,
for his manner was to compose them in the types directly
out of his head. So there being no copy, but one pair of
cases, and the Elegy likely to require all the letter, no one
could help him. I endeavour'd to put his press (which he
had not yet us'd, and of which he understood nothing) into
order fit to be work'd with; and, promising to come and
print off his Elegy as soon as he should have got it ready,
I return'd to Bradford's, who gave me a little job to do for
the present, and there I lodged and dieted. A few days
after, Keimer sent for me to print off the Elegy. And now
he had got another pair of cases, and a pamphlet to reprint,
on which he set me to work.

These two printers I found poorly qualified for their
business. Bradford had not been bred to it, and was very
illiterate; and Keimer, tho' something of a scholar, was a
mere compositor, knowing nothing of presswork. He had
been one of the French prophets, and could act their enthu-
siastic agitations.1 At this time he did not profess any
particular religion, but something of all on occasion; was

1 " M. Laboulaye presumes Keimer was one of the Camisards or Protes-
tants of the Cevennes so persecuted by Louis XIV." — B.
VOL. I — S

258 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

very ignorant of the world, and had, as I afterward found, a
good deal of the knave in his composition. He did not like
my lodging at Bradford's while I work'd with him. He
had a house, indeed, but without furniture, so he could
not lodge me ; but he got me a lodging at Mr. Read's before
mentioned, who was the owner of his house ; and, my chest
and clothes being come by this time, I made rather a more
respectable appearance in the eyes of Miss Read than I had
done when she first happen'd to see me eating my roll in the
street.

I began now to have some acquaintance among the young
people of the town, that were lovers of reading, with whom
I spent my evenings very pleasantly; and gaining money
by my industry and frugality, I lived very agreeably, for-
getting Boston as much as I could, and not desiring that
any there should know where I resided, except my friend
Collins, who was in my secret, and kept it when I wrote to
him. At length, an incident happened that sent me back
again much sooner than I had intended. I had a brother-in-
law, Robert Holmes, master of a sloop that traded between
Boston and Delaware. He being at Newcastle, forty miles
below Philadelphia, heard there of me, and wrote me a
letter mentioning the concern of my friends in Boston at
my abrupt departure, assuring me of their good will to me,
and that every thing would be accommodated to my mind
if I would return, to which he exhorted me very earnestly.
I wrote an answer to his letter, thank'd him for his advice,
but stated my reasons for quitting Boston fully and in such
a light as to convince him I was not so wrong as he had
apprehended.

Sir William Keith, governor of the province, was then at

THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY 259

Newcastle, and Captain Holmes, happening to be in company
with him when my letter came to hand, spoke to him of me,
and show'd him the letter. The governor read it, and seem'd
surpris'd when he was told of my age. He said I appear'd
a young man of promising parts, and therefore should be
encouraged ; the printers at Philadelphia were wretched ones ;
and, if I would set up there, he made no doubt I should
succeed ; for his part, he would procure me the public busi-
ness, and do me every other service in his power. This
my brother-in-law afterwards told me in Boston, but I
knew as yet nothing of it; when, one day, Keimer and I
being at work together near the window, we saw the governor
and another gentleman (which proved to be Colonel French,
of Newcastle), finely dress'd, come directly across the street
to our house, and heard them at the door.

Keimer ran down immediately, thinking it a visit to him;
but the governor inquir'd for me, came up, and with a con-
descension and politeness I had been quite unus'd to, made
me many compliments, desired to be acquainted with me,
blam'd me kindly for not having made myself known to him
when I first came to the place, and would have me away
with him to the tavern, where he was going with Colonel
French to taste, as he said, some excellent Madeira. I was
not a little surprised, and Keimer star'd like a pig poison'd.
I went, however, with the governor and Colonel French to
a tavern, at the corner of Third-street, and over the Madeira
he propos'd my setting up my business, laid before me the
probabilities of success, and both he and Colonel French
assur'd me I should have their interest and influence in pro-
curing the public business of both governments. On my
doubting whether my father would assist me in it, Sir William

260 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

said he would give me a letter to him, in which he would
state the advantages, and he did not doubt of prevailing
with him. So it was concluded I should return to Boston
in the first vessel, with the governor's letter recommending
me to my father. In the mean time the intention was to be
kept a secret, and I went on working with Keimer as usual,
the governor sending for me now and then to dine with
him, a very great honour I thought it, and conversing with me
in the most affable, familiar, and friendly manner imaginable.

About the end of April, 1724, a little vessel offer'd for
Boston. I took leave of Keimer as going to see my friends.
The governor gave me an ample letter, saying many flatter-
ing things of me to my father, and strongly recommending
the project of my setting up at Philadelphia as a thing that
must make my fortune. We struck on a shoal in going down
the bay, and sprung a leak; we had a blustering time at
sea, and were oblig'd to pump almost continually, at which
I took my turn. We arriv'd safe, however, at Boston in
about a fortnight. I had been absent seven months, and
my friends had heard nothing of me; for my br. Holmes
was not yet return'd, and had not written about me. My
unexpected appearance surpriz'd the family; all were,
however, very glad to see me, and made me welcome, except
my brother. I went to see him at his printing-house. I was
better dress 'd than ever while in his service, having a genteel
new suit from head to foot, a watch, and my pockets lin'd
with near five pounds sterling in silver. He receiv'd me
not very frankly, look'd me all over, and turn'd to his work
again.

The journeymen were inquisitive where I had been, what
sort of a country it was, and how I lik'd it. I prais'd it

THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY 261

much, and the happy life I led in it, expressing strongly my
intention of returning to it; and, one of them asking what
kind of money we had there, I produc'd a handful of silver,
and spread it before them, which was a kind of raree-show
they had not been us'd to, paper being the money of Boston.
Then I took an opportunity of letting them see my watch;
and, lastly (my brother still grum and sullen), I gave them
a piece of eight to drink, and took my leave. This visit of
mine offended him extreamly; for, when my mother some
time after spoke to him of a reconciliation, and of her wishes
to see us on good terms together, and that we might live for
the future as brothers, he said I had insulted him in such
a manner before his people that he could never forget or
forgive it. In this, however, he was mistaken.

My father received the governor's letter with some apparent
surprise, but said little of it to me for some days, when Capt.
Holmes returning he showed it to him, ask'd him if he knew
Keith, and what kind of man he was; adding his opinion
that he must be of small discretion to think of setting a boy
up in business who wanted yet three years of being at man's
estate. Holmes said what he could in favour of the project,
but my father was clear in the impropriety of it, and at last,
gave a flat denial to it. Then he wrote a civil letter to Sir
William, thanking him for the patronage he had so kindly
offered me, but declining to assist me as yet in setting up,
I being, in his opinion, too young to be trusted with the
management of a business so important, and for which the
preparation must be so expensive.

My friend and companion Collins, who was a clerk in the
post-office, pleas'd with the account I gave him of my new
country, determined to go thither also ; and, while I waited

262 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

for my father's determination, he set out before me by land
to Rhode Island, leaving his books, which were a pretty
collection of mathematicks and natural philosophy, to come
with mine and me to New York, where he propos'd to wait
for me.

My father, tho' he did not approve Sir William's proposi-
tion, was yet pleas'd that I had been able to obtain so advan-
tageous a character from a person of such note where I had
resided, and that I had been so industrious and careful as to
equip myself so handsomely in so short a time; therefore,
seeing no prospect of an accommodation between my brother
and me, he gave his consent to my returning again to Phila-
delphia, advis'd me to behave respectfully to the people
there, endeavour to obtain the general esteem, and avoid
lampooning and libeling, to which he thought I had too
much inclination; telling me, that by steady industry and
a prudent parsimony I might save enough by the time I
was one-and- twenty to set me up; and that, if I came near
the matter, he would help me out with the rest. This was
all I could obtain, except some small gifts as tokens of his
and my mother's love, when I embark'd again for New
York, now with their approbation and their blessing.

The sloop putting in at Newport, Rhode Island, I visited
my brother John, who had been married and settled there
some years. He received me very affectionately, for he
always lov'd me. A friend of his, one Vernon, having some
money due to him in Pensilvania, about thirty-five pounds
currency, desired I would receive it for him, and keep it
till I had his directions what to remit it in. Accordingly,
he gave me an order. This afterwards occasion'd me a
good deal of uneasiness.

THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY 263

At Newport we took in a number of passengers for New
York, among which were two young women, companions,
and a grave, sensible, matronlike Quaker woman, with her
attendants. I had shown an obliging readiness to do her
some little services, which impress 'd her I suppose with a
degree of good will toward me; therefore, when she saw
a daily growing familiarity between me and the two young
women, which they appear'd to encourage, she took me
aside, and said, "Young man, I am concern'd for thee, as
thou has no friend with thee, and seems not to know much
of the world, or of the snares youth is expos 'd to; depend
upon it, those are very bad women ; I can see it in all their
actions ; and if thee art not upon thy guard, they will draw
thee into some danger; they are strangers to thee, and I
advise thee, in a friendly concern for thy welfare, to have no
acquaintance with them." As I seem'd at first not to think
so ill of them as she did, she mentioned some things she
had observ'd and heard that had escap'd my notice, but now
convinc'd me she was right. I thank'd her for her kind
advice, and promis'd to follow it. When we arriv'd at New
York, they told me where they liv'd, and invited me to come
and see them; but I avoided it, and it was well I did; for
the next day the captain miss'd a silver spoon and some other
things, that had been taken out of his cabbin, and, knowing
that these were a couple of strumpets, he got a warrant to
search their lodgings, found the stolen goods, and had the
thieves punish'd. So, tho' we had escap'd a sunken rock,
which we scrap 'd upon in the passage, I thought this escape
of rather more importance to me.

At New York I found my friend Collins, who had arriv'd
there some time before me. We had been intimate from

264 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

children, and had read the same books together ; but he had
the advantage of more time for reading and studying, and
a wonderful genius for mathematical learning, in which he
far outstript me. While I liv'd in Boston, most of my hours
of leisure for conversation were spent with him, and he con-
tinu'd a sober as well as an industrious lad; was much
respected for his learning by several of the clergy and other
gentlemen, and seemed to promise making a good figure in
life. But, during my absence, he had acquir'd a habit of
sotting with brandy; and I found by his own account, and
what I heard from others, that he had been drunk every
day since his arrival at New York, and behav'd very oddly.
He had gam'd, too, and lost his money, so that I was oblig'd
to discharge his lodgings, and defray his expenses to and
at Philadelphia, which prov'd extremely inconvenient to me.

The then governor of New York, Burnet1 (son of Bishop
Burnet), hearing from the captain that a young man, one
of his passengers, had a great many books, desir'd he would
bring me to see him. I waited upon him accordingly, and
should have taken Collins with me but that he was not sober.
The gov'r. treated me with great civility, show'd me his
library, which was a very large one, and we had a good deal
of conversation about books and authors. This was the
second governor who had done me the honour to take notice
of me ; which, to a poor boy like me, was very pleasing.

We proceeded to Philadelphia. I received on the way
Vernon's money, without which we could hardly have finish'd

1 William Burnet, born at The Hague, March, 1688 ; died in Boston, Sep-
tember 19, 1729. He was appointed governor of New York and New Jersey,
April 19, 1720. He was transferred to Massachusetts in July, 1728. See
Whiteh cad's " Contributions to East Jersey History," pp. 156-168. — ED.

THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY 265

our journey. Collins wished to be employ'd in some counting-
house; but, whether they discover'd his dramming by his
breath, or by his behaviour, tho' he had some recommenda-
tions, he met with no success in any application, and con-
tinu'd lodging and boarding at the same house with me, and
at my expense. Knowing I had that money of Vernon's, he
was continually borrowing of me, still promising repay-
ment as soon as he should be in business. At length he had
got so much of it that I was distressed to think what I should
do in case of being call'd on to remit it.

His drinking continu'd, about which we sometimes quar-
rell'd; for, when a little intoxicated, he was very fractious.
Once, in a boat on the Delaware with some other young
men, he refused to row in his turn. "I will be row'd home,"
says he. "We will not row you," says I. "You must, or
stay all night on the water," says he, "just as you please."
The others said, "Let us row; what signifies it?" But,
my mind being soured with his other conduct, I continu'd
to refuse. So he swore he would make me. row, or throw
me overboard; and coming along, stepping on the thwarts,
toward me, when he came up and struck at me, I clapped
my hand under his crutch, and, rising, pitched him head-
foremost into the river. I knew he was a good swimmer,
and so was under little concern about him; but before he
could get round to lay hold of the boat, we had with a few
strokes pull'd her out of his reach; and ever when he drew
near the boat, we ask'd if he would row striking a few strokes
to slide her away from him. He was ready to die with vexa-
tion, and obstinately would not promise to row. However,
seeing him at last beginning to tire, we lifted him in and
brought him home dripping wet in the evening. We hardly

266 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

exchang'd a civil word afterwards, and a West India captain,
who had a commission to procure a tutor for the sons of a
gentleman at Barbadoes, happening to meet with him, agreed
to carry him thither. He left me then, promising to remit me
the first money he should receive in order to discharge the
debt ; but I never heard of him after.

The breaking into this money of Vernon's was one of the
first great errata of my life ; and this affair show'd that my
father was not much out in his judgment when he suppos'd
me too young to manage business of importance. But
Sir William, on reading his letter, said he was too prudent.
There was great difference in persons; and discretion did
not always accompany years, nor was youth always without
it. "And since he will not set you up," says he, "I will do
it myself. Give me an inventory of the things necessary to
be had from England, and I will send for them. You shall
repay me when you are able; I am resolv'd to have a good
printer here, and I am sure you must succeed." This was
spoken with such an appearance of cordiality, that I had
not the least doubt of his meaning what he said. I had
hitherto kept the proposition of my setting up, a secret in
Philadelphia, and I still kept it. Had it been known that
I depended on the governor, probably some friend, that
knew him better, would have advis'd me not to rely on him,
as I afterwards heard it as his known character to be liberal
of promises which he never meant to keep. Yet, unsolicited
as he was by me, how could I think his generous offers
insincere ? I believ'd him one of the best men in the world.

I presented him an inventory of a little print'g-house,
amounting by my computation to about one hundred pounds
sterling. He lik'd it, but ask'd me if my being on the spot

THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY 267

in England to chuse the types, and see that every thing was
good of the kind, might not be of some advantage. " Then,"
says he, "when there, you may make acquaintances, and
establish correspondences in the bookselling and stationery
way." I agreed that this might be advantageous. "Then,"
says he, "get yourself ready to go with Annis; " which was
the annual ship, and the only one at that time usually passing
between London and Philadelphia. But it would be some
months before Annis sail'd, so I continu'd working with
Keimer, fretting about the money Collins had got from me,
and in daily apprehensions of being call'd upon by Vernon,
which, however, did not happen for some years after.

I believe I have omitted mentioning that, in my first voyage
from Boston, being becalm'd off Block Island, our people
set about catching cod, and hauled up a great many. Hitherto
I had stuck to my resolution of not eating animal food, and
on this occasion I consider'd, with my master Tryon, the
taking every fish as a kind of unprovoked murder, since none
of them had, or ever could do us any injury that might jus-
tify the slaughter. All this seemed very reasonable. But I
had formerly been a great lover of fish, and, when this came
hot out of the frying-pan, it smelt admirably well. I balanc'd
some time between principle and inclination, till I recollected
that, when the fish were opened, I saw smaller fish taken out
of their stomachs; then thought I, "If you eat one another,
I don't see why we mayn't eat you." So I din'd upon cod
very heartily, and continued to eat with other people, return-
ing only now and then occasionally to a vegetable diet. So
convenient a thing it is to be a reasonable creature, since it
enables one to find or make a reason for every thing one has
a mind to do.

268 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

Keimer and I liv'd on a pretty good familiar footing,
and agreed tolerably well, for he suspected nothing of my
setting up. He retained a great deal of his old enthusiasms
and lov'd argumentation. We therefore had many disputa-
tions. I used to work him so with my Socratic method,
and had trepann'd him so often by questions apparently
so distant from any point we had in hand, and yet by degrees
lead to the point, and brought him into difficulties and con-
tradictions, that at last he grew ridiculously cautious, and
would hardly answer me the most common question, without
asking first, " What do you intend to infer from that?" How-
ever, it gave him so high an opinion of my abilities in the
confuting way, that he seriously proposed my being his col-
league in a project he had of setting up a new sect. He was
to preach the doctrines, and I was to confound all opponents.
When he came to explain with me upon the doctrines, I
found several conundrums which I objected to, unless I
might have my way a little too, and introduce some of mine.

Keimer wore his beard at full length, because somewhere
in the Mosaic law it is said, " Thou shall not mar the corners
of thy beard." He likewise kept the Seventh day, Sabbath;
and these two points were essentials with him. I dislik'd
both ; but agreed to admit them upon condition of his adopt-
ing the doctrine of using no animal food. "I doubt," said
he, "my constitution will not bear that." I assur'd him it
would, and that he would be the better for it. He was usually
a great glutton, and I promised myself some diversion in
half starving him. He agreed to try the practice, if I would
keep him company. I did so, and we held it for three months.
We had our victuals dress'd, and brought to us regularly by
a woman in the neighborhood, who had from me a list of

THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY 269

forty dishes, to be prepar'd for us at different times, in all
which there was neither fish, flesh, nor fowl, and the whim
suited me the better at this time from the cheapness of it,
not costing us above eighteenpence sterling each per week.
I have since kept several Lents most strictly, leaving the
common diet for that, and that for the common, abruptly,
without the least inconvenience, so that I think there is little
in the advice of making those changes by easy gradations.
I went on pleasantly, but poor Keimer suffered grievously,
tired of the project, long'd for the flesh-pots of Egypt, and
order'd a roast pig. He invited me and two women friends
to dine with him ; but, it being brought too soon upon table,
he could not resist the temptation, and ate the whole before
we came.

I had made some courtship during this time to Miss Read.
I had a great respect and affection for her, and had some
reason to believe she had the same for me; but, as I was
about to take a long voyage, and we were both very young,
only a little above eighteen, it was thought most prudent
by her mother to prevent our going too far at present,
as a marriage, if it was to take place, would be more con-
venient after my return, when I should be, as I expected, set
up in my business. Perhaps, too, she thought my expecta-
tions not so well founded as I imagined them to be.

My chief acquaintances at this time were Charles Osborne,
Joseph Watson, and James Ralph, all lovers of reading.
The two first were clerks to an eminent scrivener or convey-
ancer in the town, Charles Brogden ; the other was clerk to
a merchant. Watson was a pious, sensible young man, of
great integrity ; the others rather more lax in their principles
of religion, particularly Ralph, who, as well as Collins, had

270 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

been unsettled by me, for which they both made me suffer.
Osborne was sensible, candid, frank ; sincere and affectionate
to his friends ; but, in literary matters, too fond of criticising.
Ralph was ingenious, genteel in his manners, and extremely
eloquent; I think I never knew a prettier talker. Both
of them great admirers of poetry, and began to try their
hands in little pieces. Many pleasant walks we four had
together on Sundays into the woods, near Schuylkill, where
we read to one another, and conferr'd on what we read.

Ralph was inclin'd to pursue the study of poetry, not
doubting but he might become eminent in it, and make his
fortune by it, alleging that the best poets must, when they
first began to write, make as many faults as he did. Osborne
dissuaded him, assur'd him he had no genius for poetry,
and advis'd him to think of nothing beyond the business he
was bred to; that, in the mercantile way, tho' he had no
stock, he might, by his diligence and punctuality, recom-
mend himself to employment as a factor, and in time acquire
wherewith to trade on his own account. I approv'd the
amusing one's self with poetry now and then, so far as to
improve one's language, but no farther.

On this it was propos'd that we should each of us, at our
next meeting, produce a piece of our own composing, in order
to improve by our mutual observations, criticisms, and cor-
rections. As language and expression were what we had
in view, we excluded all considerations of invention by agree-
ing that the task should be a version of the eighteenth Psalm,
which describes the descent of a Deity. When the time
of our meeting drew nigh, Ralph called on me first, and let
me know his piece was ready. I told him I had been busy,
and, having little inclination, had done nothing. He then

THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY 271

show'd me his piece for my opinion, and I much approv'd
it, as it appear'd to me to have great merit. "Now," says
he, "Osborne never will allow the least merit in any thing
of mine, but makes 1000 criticisms out of mere envy. He
is not so jealous of you ; I wish, therefore, you would take
this piece, and produce it as yours; I will pretend not to
have had time, and so produce nothing. We shall then
see what he will say to it." It was agreed, and I im-
mediately transcrib'd it, that it might appear in my own
hand.

We met; Watson's performance was read; there were
some beauties in it, but many defects. Osborne's was read ;
it was much better; Ralph did it justice; remarked some
faults, but applauded the beauties. He himself had nothing
to produce. I was backward; seemed desirous of being
excused; had not had sufficient time to correct, etc.; but
no excuse could be admitted ; produce I must. It was read
and repeated ; Watson and Osborne gave up the contest,
and join'd in applauding it. Ralph only made some criti-
cisms, and propos'd some amendments; but I defended my
text. Osborne was against Ralph, and told him he was no
better a critic than poet, so he dropt the argument. As
they two went home together, Osborne expressed himself still
more strongly in favour of what he thought my production ;
having restrain'd himself before, as he said, lest I should
think it flattery. "But who would have imagin'd," said
he, "that Franklin had been capable of such a performance;
such painting, such force, such fire ! He has even improv'd
the original. In his common conversation he seems to have
no choice of words ; he hesitates and blunders ; and yet,
good God! how he writes!" When we next met, Ralph

272 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

discovered the trick we had plaid him, and Osborne was
a little laught at.

This transaction fixed Ralph in his resolution of becoming
a poet. I did all I could to dissuade him from it, but he con-
tinued scribbling verses till Pope cured him.1 He became,
however, a pretty good prose writer. More of him hereafter.
But, as I may not have occasion again to mention the other
two, I shall just remark here, that Watson died in my arms
a few years after, much lamented, being the best of our set.
Osborne went to the West Indies, where he became an emi-
nent lawyer and made money, but died young. He and I
had made a serious agreement, that the one who happen'd
first to die should, if possible, make a friendly visit to the
other, and acquaint him how he found things in that sepa-
rate state. But he never fulfilPd his promise.

1 James Ralph (1705 7-1762), a luckless poetaster and diligent pamphlet-
eer put by Pope into the Dunciad : —

" Silence, ye wolves ! while Ralph to Cynthia howls,
And makes night hideous — answer him, ye owls."

— Book III., line 165.

"James Ralph, a name inserted after the first editions, not known till he
writ a swearing-piece called Sawney, very abusive of Dr. Swift, Mr. Gay, and
myself. These lines allude to a thing of his entitled Night, a poem. This
low writer attended his own works with panegyrics in the journals, and once
in particular praised himself highly above Mr. Addison, in wretched remarks
upon that author's account of English poets, printed in a London journal,
September, 1728. He was wholly illiterate and knew no language, not even
French. Being advised to read the rules of dramatic poetry before he began
a play, he smiled and replied ' Shakspeare writ without rules.1 He ended at
last in the common sink of all such writers, a political newspaper, to which he
was recommended by his friend Arnal, and received a small pittance for pay;
and being detected in writing on both sides on one and the same day, he pub-
licly justified the morality of his conduct."

In the first book of the Dunciad, line 215, there is another allusion to
Ralph : —

" And see ! the very Gazetteers give o'er,
Ev'n Ralph repents, and Henley writes no more." — ED.

THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY 273

The governor, seeming to like my company, had me
frequently to his house, and his setting me up was always
mention 'd as a fixed thing. I was to take with me letters
recommendatory to a number of his friends, besides the letter
of credit to furnish me with the necessary money for purchas-
ing the press and types, paper, etc. For these letters I was
appointed to call at different times, when they were to be
ready; but a future time was still named. Thus he went
on till the ship, whose departure too had been several times
postponed, was on the point of sailing. Then, when I call'd
to take my leave and receive the letters, his secretary, Dr.
Bard, came out to me, and said the governor was extremely
busy in writing, but would be down at Newcastle before the
ship, and there the letters would be delivered to me.

Ralph, though married, and having one child, had deter-
mined to accompany me in this voyage. It was thought he
intended to establish a correspondence, and obtain goods
to sell on commission; but I found afterwards, that, thro'
some discontent with his wife's relations, he purposed to
leave her on their hands, and never return again. Having
taken leave of my friends, and interchang'd some promises
with Miss Read, I left Philadelphia in the ship, which an-
chor'd at Newcastle. The governor was there; but when
I went to his lodging, the secretary came to me from him
with the civillest message in the world, that he could not then
see me, being engaged in business of the utmost importance,
but should send the letters to me on board, wished me
heartily a good voyage and a speedy return, etc. I returned
on board a little puzzled, but still not doubting.

Mr. Andrew Hamilton, a famous lawyer of Philadelphia,
had taken passage in the same ship for himself and son, and

VOL. I — T

274 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

with Mr. Denham, a Quaker merchant, and Messrs. Onion
and Russel, masters of an iron work in Maryland,1 had en-
gag'd the great cabin; so that Ralph and I were forced to
take up with a berth in the steerage, and none on board
knowing us, were considered as ordinary persons. But Mr.
Hamilton and his son (it was James, since governor) return'd
from Newcastle to Philadelphia, the father being recall'd
by a great fee to plead for a seized ship ; and, just before we
sail'd, Colonel French coming on board, and showing me
great respect, I was more taken notice of, and, with my
friend Ralph, invited by the other gentlemen to come into
the cabin, there being now room. Accordingly, we remov'd
thither.

Understanding that Colonel French had brought on board
the governor's despatches, I ask'd the captain for those
letters that were to be under my care. He said all were put
into the bag together and he could not then come at them;
but, before we landed in England, I should have an oppor-
tunity of picking them out ; so I was satisfied for the present,
and we proceeded on our voyage. We had a sociable com-
pany in the cabin, and lived uncommonly well, having the
addition of all Mr. Hamilton's stores, who had laid in plen-
tifully. In this passage Mr. Denham contracted a friend-
ship for me that continued during his life. The voyage was
otherwise not a pleasant one, as we had a great deal of bad
weather.

When we came into the Channel, the captain kept his
word with me, and gave me an opportunity of examining the
bag for the governor's letters. I found none upon which my
name was put as under my care. I picked out six or seven,

1 Principio Iron Works. — ED.

THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY 275

that, by the handwriting, I thought might be the promised
letters, especially as one of them was directed to Basket,
the king's printer, and another to some stationer. We
arriv'd in London the 24th of December, 1724. I waited
upon the stationer, who came first in my way, delivering
the letter as from Governor Keith. "I don't know such
a person," says he; but, opening the letter, "O! this is
from Riddlesden. I have lately found him to be a
compleat rascal, and I will have nothing to do with
him, nor receive any letters from him." So, putting
the letter into my hand, he turn'd on his heel and left me to
serve some customer. I was surprized to find these were
not the governor's letters; and, after recollecting and com-
paring circumstances, I began to doubt his sincerity. I
found my friend Denham, and opened the whole affair to
him. He let me into Keith's character; told me there was
not the least probability that he had written any letters for
me; that no one, who knew him, had the smallest depend-
ence on him; and he laught at the notion of the governor's
giving me a letter of credit, having, as he said, no credit
to give. On my expressing some concern about what I
should do, he advised me to endeavour getting some employ-
ment in the way of my business. "Among the printers
here," said he, "you will improve yourself, and when you
return to America, you will set up to greater advantage."

We both of us happen 'd to know, as well as the stationer,
that Riddlesden, the attorney, was a very knave. He had
half ruin'd Miss Read's father by persuading him to be
bound for him. By this letter it appear'd there was a secret
scheme on foot to the prejudice of Hamilton (suppos'd to
be then coming over with us) ; and that Keith was concerned

276 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

in it with Riddlesden. Denham, who was a friend of Ham-
ilton's thought he ought to be acquainted with it ; so, when he
arriv'd in England, which was soon after, partly from resent-
ment and ill-will to Keith and Riddlesden, and partly from
good-will to him, I waited on him, and gave him the letter.
He thank'd me cordially, the information being of importance
to him; and from that time he became my friend, greatly to
my advantage afterwards on many occasions.

But what shall we think of a governor's playing such pitiful
tricks, and imposing so grossly on a poor ignorant boy ! It
was a habit he had acquired. He wish'd to please every-
body; and, having little to give, he gave expectations. He
was otherwise an ingenious, sensible man, a pretty good
writer, and a good governor for the people, tho' not for his
constituents, the proprietaries, whose instructions he some-
times disregarded. Several of our best laws were of his
planning and passed during his administration.

Ralph and I were inseparable companions. We took
lodgings together in Little Britain at three shillings and six-
pence a week — as much as we could then afford. He
found some relations, but they were poor, and unable to
assist him. He now let me know his intentions of remain-
ing in London, and that he never meant to return to Phila-
delphia. He had brought no money with him, the whole
he could muster having been expended in paying his passage.
I had fifteen pistoles; so he borrowed occasionally of me to
subsist, while he was looking out for business. He first
endeavoured to get into the playhouse, believing himself
qualify 'd for an actor; but Wilkes, to whom he apply 'd,
advis'd him candidly not to think of that employment, as it
was impossible he should succeed in it. Then he propos'd

THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY 277

to Roberts, a publisher in Paternoster Row, to write for him
a weekly paper like the Spectator, on certain conditions,
which Roberts did not approve. Then he endeavoured to
get employment as a hackney writer, to copy for the sta-
tioners and lawyers about the Temple, but could find no
vacancy.

I immediately got into work at Palmer's, then a famous
printing-house in Bartholomew Close, and here I continu'd
near a year. I was pretty diligent, but spent with Ralph a
good deal of my earnings in going to plays and other places
of amusement. We had together consumed all my pistoles,
and now just rubbed on from hand to mouth. He seem'd
quite to forget his wife and child, and I, by degrees, my
engagements with Miss Read, to whom I never wrote more
than one letter, and that was to let her know I was not likely
soon to return. This was another of the great errata of my
life, which I should wish to correct if I were to live it over
again. In fact, by our expenses, I was constantly kept un-
able to pay my passage.

At Palmer's I was employed in composing for the second
edition of Wollaston's "Religion of Nature." * Some of his
reasonings not appearing to me well founded, I wrote a little
metaphysical piece in which I made remarks on them. It
was entitled "A Dissertation on Liberty and Necessity,
Pleasure and Pain." I inscribed it to my friend Ralph; I
printed a small number. It occasion'd my being more
consider'd by Mr. Palmer as a young man of some ingenuity,
tho' he seriously expostulated with me upon the principles
of my pamphlet, which to him appear'd abominable. My

1 William Wollaston (1660-1724), "The Religion of Nature Delineated."
London : Printed by S. Palmer, 1 725.

278 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

printing this pamphlet was another erratum. While I
lodg'd in Little Britain, I made an acquaintance with one
Wilcox, a bookseller, whose shop was at the next door. He
had an immense collection of second-hand books. Circu-
lating libraries were not then in use ; but we agreed that, on
certain reasonable terms, which I have now forgotten, I
might take, read, and return any of his books. This I
esteem 'd a great advantage, and I made as much use of it as
I could.

My pamphlet by some means falling into the hands of one
Lyons, a surgeon, author of a book entitled "The Infalli-
bility of Human Judgment," * it occasioned an acquaintance
between us. He took great notice of me, called on me often
to converse on those subjects, carried me to the Horns, a

pale alehouse in Lane, Cheapside, and introduced me

to Dr. Mandeville, author of the "Fable of the Bees," * who
had a club there, of which he was the soul, being a most
facetious, entertaining companion. Lyons, too, introduced
me to Dr. Pemberton,3 at Batson's Coffee-house, who prom-
is'd to give me an opportunity, some time or other, of seeing
Sir Isaac Newton, of which I was extreamly desirous ; but
this never happened.

I had brought over a few curiosities, among which the
principal was a purse made of the asbestos, which purifies
by fire. Sir Hans Sloane heard of it, came to see me, and

1 Lyons, "The Infallibility of Human Judgment," fifth edition. London:
1725.

2 Bernard Mandeville (16707-1733), "The Fable of the Bees, or Private
Vices Public Benefits," 1714.

8 Henry Pemberton (1694-1771) was employed by Newton to superintend
the third edition of the " Principia." He published " A View of Sir I. New-
ton's Philosophy," 1728. — ED.

THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY 279

invited me to his house in Bloomsbury Square, where he
show'd me all his curiosities, and persuaded me to let him
add that to the number, for which he paid me handsomely.1

In our house there lodg'd a young woman, a milliner, who,
I think, had a shop in the Cloisters. She had been genteelly
bred, was sensible and lively, and of most pleasing conversa-
tion. Ralph read plays to her in the evenings, they grew
intimate, she took another lodging, and he followed her.
They liv'd together some time; but, he being still out of
business, and her income not sufficient to maintain them
with her child, he took a resolution of going from London,
to try for a country school, which he thought himself well
qualified to undertake, as he wrote an excellent hand, and
was a master of arithmetic and accounts. This, however,
he deemed a business below him, and confident of future
better fortune, when he should be unwilling to have it known
that he once was so meanly employed, he changed his name,
and did me the honour to assume mine ; for I soon after had
a letter from him, acquainting me that he was settled in a
small village (in Berkshire, I think it was, where he taught
reading and writing to ten or a dozen boys, at sixpence each

per week), recommending Mrs. T to my care, and

desiring me to write to him, directing for Mr. Franklin,
schoolmaster, at such a place.

He continued to write frequently, sending me large speci-
mens of an epic poem which he was then composing, and
desiring my remarks and corrections. These I gave him
from time to time, but endeavour'd rather to discourage his
proceeding. One of Young's Satires was then just published.2

1 See letter from Franklin to Sloane (1660-1753), dated June 2, 1725. — ED.

2 Young, Vol. III., Epist. II., p. 70. — ED.

280 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

I copy'd and sent him a great part of it, which set in a strong
light the folly of pursuing the Muses with any hope of ad-
vancement by them. All was in vain; sheets of the poem
continued to come by every post. In the mean time, Mrs.

T , having on his account lost her friends and business,

was often in distresses, and us'd to send for me, and borrow
what I could spare to help her out of them. I grew fond of
her company, and, being at that time under no religious
restraint, and presuming upon my importance to her, I
attempted familiarities (another erratum) which she repuls'd
with a proper resentment, and acquainted him with my
behaviour. This made a breach between us; and, when he
returned again to London, he let me know he thought I had
cancell'd all the obligations he had been under to me. So I
found I was never to expect his repaying me what I lent to
him, or advanc'd for him. This, however, was not then of
much consequence, as he was totally unable ; and in the loss
of his friendship I found myself relieved from a burthen. I
now began to think of getting a little money beforehand, and,
expecting better work, I left Palmer's to work at Watts's,
near Lincoln's Inn Fields, a still greater printing-house.1
Here I continued all the rest of my stay in London.

At my first admission into this printing-house I took to
working at press, imagining I felt a want of the bodily exer-
cise I had been us'd to in America, where presswork is mix'd
with composing. I drank only water; the other workmen,
near fifty in number, were great guzzlers of beer. On occa-
sion, I carried up and down stairs a large form of types in
each hand, when others carried but one in both hands. They

1 Watts's printing-office was situated on the south side of Wild-Court, neat
the eastern end, and three doors from King's Head Yard. — B.

THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY 281

wondered to see, from this and several instances, that the
Water- American, as they called me, was stronger than them-
selves, who drank strong beer! We had an alehouse boy
who attended always in the house to supply the workmen.
My companion at the press drank every day a pint before
breakfast, a pint at breakfast with his bread and cheese, a
pint between breakfast and dinner, a pint at dinner, a pint
in the afternoon about six o'clock, and another when he had
done his day's work. I thought it a detestable custom; but
it was necessary, he suppos'd, to drink strong beer, that he
might be strong to labour. I endeavoured to convince him
that the bodily strength afforded by beer could only be in
proportion to the grain or flour of the barley dissolved in the
water of which it was made ; that there was more flour in a
pennyworth of bread; and therefore, if he would eat that
with a pint of water, it would give him more strength than a
quart of beer. He drank on, however, and had four or five
shillings to pay out of his wages every Saturday night for that
muddling liquor; an expense I was free from. And thus
these poor devils keep themselves always under.

Watts, after some weeks, desiring to have me in the com-
posing-room, I left the pressmen; a new bien venu or sum
for drink, being five shillings, was demanded of me by the
compositors. I thought it an imposition, as I had paid
below; the master thought so too, and forbad my paying it.
I stood out two or three weeks, was accordingly considered
as an excommunicate, and had so many little pieces of private
mischief done me, by mixing my sorts, transposing my pages,
breaking my matter, etc., etc., if I were ever so little out of
the room, and all ascribed to the chappel ghost, which they
said ever haunted those not regularly admitted, that, not-

282 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

withstanding the master's protection, I found myself oblig'd
to comply and pay the money, convinc'd of the folly of being
on ill terms with those one is to live with continually.

I was now on a fair footing with them, and soon acquir'd
considerable influence. I propos'd some reasonable altera-
tions in their chappel l laws, and carried them against all
opposition. From my example, a great part of them left
their muddling breakfast of beer, and bread, and cheese,
finding they could with me be supply'd from a neighbouring
house with a large porringer of hot water-gruel, sprinkled
with pepper, crumb'd with bread, and a bit of butter in it,
for the price of a pint of beer, viz., three half-pence. This
was a more comfortable as well as cheaper breakfast, and
kept their heads clearer. Those who continued sotting with
beer all day, were often, by not paying, out of credit at the
alehouse, and us'd to make interest with me to get beer;
their light, as they phrased it, being out. I watch 'd the
pay-table on Saturday night, and collected what I stood
engag'd for them, having to pay sometimes near thirty
shillings a week on their accounts. This, and my being
esteem'd a pretty good riggite, that is, a jocular verbal satir-
ist, supported my consequence in the society. My constant
attendance (I never making a St. Monday) recommended me
to the master; and my uncommon quickness at composing

1 "A printing-house is always called a chapel by the workmen, the origin
of which appears to have been, that printing was first carried on in England
in an antient chapel converted into a printing-house, and the title has been
preserved by tradition. The bien venu among the printers answers to the
terms entrance and footing among mechanics; thus a journeyman, on enter-
ing a printing-house, was accustomed to pay one or more gallons of beer for
the good of the chapel : this custom was falling into disuse thirty years ago;
it is very properly rejected entirely in the United States." — W. T. F.

See letter from Franklin to William Strahan, August 19, 1784. — ED.

THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY 283

occasioned my being put upon all work of dispatch, which
was generally better paid. So I went on now very agree-
ably.

My lodging in Little Britain being too remote, I found
another in Duke-street, opposite to the Romish Chapel. It
was two pair of stairs backwards, at an Italian warehouse.
A widow lady kept the house; she had a daughter, and a
maid servant, and a journeyman who attended the ware-
house, but lodg'd abroad. After sending to inquire my
character at the house where I last lodg'd she agreed to
take me in at the same rate, 35. 6d. per week; cheaper, as
she said, from the protection she expected in having a man
lodge in the house. She was a widow, an elderly woman;
had been bred a Protestant, being a clergyman's daughter,
but was converted to the Catholic religion by her husband,
whose memory she much revered; had lived much among
people of distinction, and knew a thousand anecdotes of
them as far back as the times of Charles the Second. She
was lame in her knees with the gout, and, therefore, seldom
stirred out of her room, so sometimes wanted company ; and
hers was so highly amusing to me, that I was sure to spend
an evening with her whenever she desired it. Our supper
was only half an anchovy each, on a very little strip of bread
and butter, and half a pint of ale between us; but the en-
tertainment was in her conversation. My always keeping
good hours, and giving little trouble in the family, made her
unwilling to part with me ; so that, when I talk'd of a lodg-
ing I had heard of, nearer my business, for two shillings a
week, which, intent as I now was on saving money, made
some difference, she bid me not think of it, for she would
abate me two shillings a week for the future; so I remained

284 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

with her at one shilling and sixpence as long as I staid in
London.

In a garret of her house there lived a maiden lady of seventy,
in the most retired manner, of whom my landlady gave me
this account : that she was a Roman Catholic, had been sent
abroad when young, and lodg'd in a nunnery with an intent
of becoming a nun ; but, the country not agreeing with her,
she returned to England, where, there being no nunnery, she
had vow'd to lead the life of a nun, as near as might be done
in those circumstances. Accordingly, she had given all her
estate to charitable uses, reserving only twelve pounds a year
to live on, and out of this sum she still gave a great deal in
charity, living herself on water-gruel only, and using no fire
but to boil it. She had lived many years in that garret,
being permitted to remain there gratis by successive Catho-
lic tenants of the house below, as they deemed it a blessing
to have her there. A priest visited her to confess her every
day. "I have ask'd her," says my landlady, "how she, as
she liv'd, could possibly find so much employment for a
confessor?" "Oh," said she, "it is impossible to avoid
vain thoughts." I was permitted once to visit her. She
was chearful and polite, and convers'd pleasantly. The
room was clean, but had no other furniture than a matras, a
table with a crucifix and book, a stool which she gave me to
sit on, and a picture over the chimney of Saint Veronica
displaying her handkerchief, with the miraculous figure of
Christ's bleeding face on it, which she explained to me with
great seriousness. She look'd pale, but was never sick;
and I give it as another instance on how small an income,
life and health may be supported.

At Watts's printing-house I contracted an acquaintance

THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY 285

with an ingenious young man, one Wygate, who, having
wealthy relations, had been better educated than most print-
ers ; was a tolerable Latinist, spoke French, and lov'd read-
ing. I taught him and a friend of his to swim at twice going
into the river, and they soon became good swimmers. They
introduc'd me to some gentlemen from the country, who
went to Chelsea by water to see the College and Don Sal-
tero's curiosities.1 In our return, at the request of the com-
pany, whose curiosity Wygate had excited, I stripped and
leaped into the river, and swam from near Chelsea to
Blackfryar's, performing on the way many feats of activity,
both upon and under water, that surpris'd and pleas'd those
to whom they were novelties.

I had from a child been ever delighted with this exercise,
had studied and practis'd all Thevenot's motions and posi-
tions, added some of my own, aiming at the graceful and
easy as well as the useful. All these I took this occasion of
exhibiting to the company, and was much flatter'd by their
admiration; and Wygate, who was desirous of becoming a
master, grew more and more attach'd to me on that account,
as well as from the similarity of our studies. He at length
proposed to me travelling all over Europe together, support-
ing ourselves everywhere by working at our business. I was
once inclined to it; but, mentioning it to my good friend
Mr. Denham, with whom I often spent an hour when I had

1 James Salter lived in Cheyne Walk, Chelsea. His house, a barber-shop,
was known as " Don Saltero's coffee-house " and was a favorite lounge for
Sloane and Oldham. The curiosities were in glass cases and constituted an
amazing and motley collection — a petrified crab from China, a " lignified
hog," Job's tears, Madagascar lances, William the Conqueror's flaming sword,
and Henry the Eighth's coat of mail. See " A Catalogue of the Rarities to
be seen at Don Saltero's Coffee House in Chelsea," printed by Salter and sold
for two pence. — ED.

286 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

leisure, he dissuaded me from it, advising me to think only
of returning to Pennsilvania, which he was now about to do.

I must record one trait of this good man's character. He
had formerly been in business at Bristol, but failed in debt
to a number of people, compounded and went to America.
There, by a close application to business as a merchant, he
acquir'd a plentiful fortune in a few years. Returning to
England in the ship with me, he invited his old creditors to
an entertainment, at which he thank'd them for the easy
composition they had favoured him with, and, when they
expected nothing but the treat, every man at the first remove
found under his plate an order on a banker for the full amount
of the unpaid remainder with interest.

He now told me he was about to return to Philadelphia,
and should carry over a great quantity of goods in order to
open a store there. He propos'd to take me over as his
clerk, to keep his books, in which he would instruct me, copy
his letters, and attend the store. He added, that, as soon as I
should be acquainted with mercantile business, he would pro-
mote me by sending me with a cargo of flour and bread, etc.,
to the West Indies, and procure me commissions from others
which would be profitable; and, if I manag'd well, would
establish me handsomely. The thing pleas'd me ; for I was
grown tired of London, remembered with pleasure the happy
months I had spent in Pennsylvania, and wish'd again to see
it ; therefore I immediately agreed on the terms of fifty pounds
a year, Pennsylvania money; less, indeed, than my present
gettings as a compositor, but affording a better prospect.

I now took leave of printing, as I thought, for ever, and
was daily employed in my new business, going about with
Mr. Denham among the tradesmen to purchase various arti-

THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY 287

cles, and seeing them pack'd up, doing errands, calling upon
workmen to dispatch, etc. ; and, when all was on board, I
had a few days' leisure. On one of these days, I was, to my
surprise, sent for by a great man I knew only by name, a Sir
William Wyndham,1 and I waited upon him. He had heard
by some means or other of my swimming from Chelsea to
Blackfriar's, and of my teaching Wygate and another young
man to swim in a few hours. He had two sons, about to set
out on their travels; he wish'd to have them first taught
swimming, and proposed to gratify me handsomely if I would
teach them. They were not yet come to town, and my stay
was uncertain, so I could not undertake it; but, from this
incident, I thought it likely that, if I were to remain in Eng-
land and open a swimming-school, I might get a good deal
of money; and it struck me so strongly, that, had the over-
ture been sooner made me, probably I should not so soon
have returned to America. After many years, you and I
had something of more importance to do with one of these
sons of Sir William Wyndham, become Earl of Egremont,
which I shall mention in its place.

Thus I spent about eighteen months in London; most
part of the time I work'd hard at my business, and spent but
little upon myself except in seeing plays and in books. My
friend Ralph had kept me poor; he owed me about twenty-
seven pounds, which I was now never likely to receive; a
great sum out of my small earnings ! I lov'd him, notwith-
standing, for he had many amiable qualities. I had by no

1 Sir William Wyndham (1687-1740), a political and ethical disciple of
Bolingbroke. The two sons referred to by Franklin were Sir Charles Wynd-
ham, second Earl of Egremont (1710-1763), and Percy O'Brien, Earl of
Thomond. — ED.

288 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

means improv'd my fortune ; but I had picked up some very
ingenious acquaintance, whose conversation was of great ad-
vantage to me ; and I had read considerably.

We sail'd from Gravesend on the 23rd of July, 1726. For
the incidents of the voyage, I refer you to my Journal, where
you will find them all minutely related. Perhaps the most
important part of that journal is the plan l to be found in it,
which I formed at sea, for regulating my future conduct in
life. It is the more remarkable, as being formed when I was
so young, and yet being pretty faithfully adhered to quite
thro' to old age.

We landed in Philadelphia on the nth of October, where
I found sundry alterations. Keith was no longer governor,
being superseded by Major Gordon. I met him walking
the streets as a common citizen. He seem'd a little asham'd
at seeing me, but pass'd without saying any thing. I should
have been as much asham'd at seeing Miss Read, had not
her friends, despairing with reason of my return after the
receipt of my letter, persuaded her to marry another, one
Rogers, a potter, which was done in my absence. With him,
however, she was never happy, and soon parted from him,
refusing to cohabit with him or bear his name, it being now
said that he had another wife. He was a worthless fellow,
tho' an excellent workman, which was the temptation to her
friends. He got into debt, ran away in 1727 or 1728, went
to the West Indies, and died there. Keimer had got a better
house, a shop well supply'd with stationery, plenty of new
types, a number of hands, tho' none good, and seem'd to
have a great deal of business.

1 The " Journal " was printed by W. T. Franklin from a copy made at
Reading in 1787. But it does not contain the Plan. — ED.

THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY 289

Mr. Denham took a store in Water-street, where we open'd
our goods; I attended the business diligently, studied ac-
counts, and grew, in a little time, expert at selling. We
lodg'd and boarded together; he counsell'd me as a father,
having a sincere regard for me. I respected and loved him,
and we might have gone on together very happy, but, in the
beginning of February, 172^, when I had just pass'd my
twenty-first year, we both were taken ill. My distemper was
a pleurisy, which very nearly carried me off. I suffered a
good deal, gave up the point in my own mind, and was rather
disappointed when I found myself recovering, regretting, in
some degree, that I must now, some time or other, have all
that disagreeable work to do over again. I forget what his
distemper was ; it held him a long time, and at length carried
him off. He left me a small legacy in a nuncupative will, as
a token of his kindness for me, and he left me once more to
the wide world ; for the store was taken into the care of his
executors, and my employment under him ended.

My brother-in-law, Holmes, being now at Philadelphia,
advised my return to my business ; and Keimer tempted me,
with an offer of large wages by the year, to come and take
the management of his printing-house, that he might better
attend his stationer's shop. I had heard a bad character of
him in London from his wife and her friends, and was not
fond of having any more to do with him. I tri'd for farther
employment as a merchant's clerk; but, not readily meeting
with any, I clos'd again with Keimer. I found in his house
these hands: Hugh Meredith, a Welsh Pensilvanian, thirty
years of age, bred to country work; honest, sensible, had a
great deal of solid observation, was something of a reader,
but given to drink. Stephen Potts, a young countryman of

VOL. I — U

290 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

full age, bred to the same, of uncommon natural parts, and
great wit and humour, but a little idle. These he had agreed
with at extream low wages per week, to be rais'd a shilling
every three months, as they would deserve by improving in
their business; and the expectation of these high wages, to
come on hereafter, was what he had drawn them in with.
Meredith was to work at press, Potts at book- binding, which
he, by agreement, was to teach them, though he knew nei-
ther one nor t'other. John , a wild Irishman, brought

up to no business, whose service, for four years, Keimer had
purchased from the captain of a ship ; he, too, was to be made
a pressman. George Webb, an Oxford scholar, whose time
for four years he had likewise bought, intending him for a
compositor, of whom more presently; and David Harry, a
country boy, whom he had taken apprentice.

I soon perceiv'd that the intention of engaging me at wages
so much higher than he had been us'd to give, was, to have
these raw, cheap hands form'd thro' me; and, as soon as I
had instructed them, then they being all articled to him, he
should be able to do without me. I went on, however, very
chearfully, put his printing-house in order, which had been
in great confusion, and brought his hands by degrees to mind
their business and to do it better.

It was an odd thing to find an Oxford scholar in the situa-
tion of a bought servant. He was not more than eighteen
years of age, and gave me this account of himself; that he
was born in Gloucester, educated at a grammar-school there,
had been distinguish'd among the scholars for some appar-
ent superiority in performing his part, when they exhibited
plays; belong'd to the Witty Club there, and had written
some pieces in prose and verse, which were printed in the

THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY 291

Gloucester newspapers ; thence he was sent to Oxford ; where
he continued about a year, but not well satisfi'd, wishing of
all things to see London, and become a player. At length,
receiving his quarterly allowance of fifteen guineas, instead
of discharging his debts he walk'd out of town, hid his gown
in a furze bush, and footed it to London, where, having no
friends to advise him, he fell into bad company, soon spent
his guineas, found no means of being introduc'd among the
players, grew necessitous, pawn'd his cloaths, and wanted
bread. Walking the street very hungry, and not knowing
what to do with himself, a crimp's bill was put into his hand,
offering immediate entertainment and encouragement to such
as would bind themselves to serve in America. He went
directly, sign'd the indentures, was put into the ship, and
came over, never writing a line to acquaint his friends what
was become of him. He was lively, witty, good-natur'd, and
a pleasant companion, but idle, thoughtless, and imprudent
to the last degree.

John, the Irishman, soon ran away ; with the rest I began
to live very agreeably, for they all respected me the more, as
they found Keimer incapable of instructing them, and that
from me they learned something daily. We never worked
on Saturday, that being Keimer's Sabbath, so I had two days
for reading. My acquaintance with ingenious people in the
town increased. Keimer himself treated me with great civil-
ity and apparent regard, and nothing now made me uneasy
but my debt to Vernon, which I was yet unable to pay, being
hitherto but a poor oeconomist. He, however, kindly made
no demand of it.

Our printing-house often wanted sorts, and there was no
letter-founder in America; I had seen types cast at James's

292 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

in London, but without much attention to the manner ; how-
ever, I now contrived a mould, made use of the letters we had
as puncheons, struck the matrices in lead, and thus supply'd
in a pretty tolerable way all deficiencies. I also engrav'd
several things on occasion; I made the ink; I was ware-
houseman, and everything, and, in short, quite a fac-totum.

But, however serviceable I might be, I found that my ser-
vices became every day of less importance, as the other hands
improv'd in the business ; and, when Keimer paid my second
quarter's wages, he let me know that he felt them too heavy,
and thought I should make an abatement. He grew by de-
grees less civil, put on more of the master, frequently found
fault, was captious, and seem'd ready for an outbreaking. I
went on, nevertheless, with a good deal of patience, thinking
that his encumber'd circumstances were partly the cause. At
length a trifle snapt our connections ; for, a great noise hap-
pening near the court-house, I put my head out of the window
to see what was the matter. Keimer, being in the street,
look'd up and saw me, calPd out to me in a loud voice and
angry tone to mind my business, adding some reproachful
words, that nettled me the more for their publicity, all the
neighbours who were looking out on the same occasion being
witnesses how I was treated. He came up immediately into
the printing-house, continu'd the quarrel, high words pass'd
on both sides, he gave me the quarter's warning we had stip-
ulated, expressing a wish that he had not been oblig'd to so
long a warning. I told him his wish was unnecessary, for I
would leave him that instant ; and so, taking my hat, walk'd
out of doors, desiring Meredith, whom I saw below, to take
care of some things I left, and bring them to my lodgings.

Meredith came accordingly in the evening, when we talked

THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
my affair over. He had conceiv'd a great regard for me, and
was very unwilling that I should leave the house while he
remain'd in it. He dissuaded me from returning to my na-
tive country, which I began to think of; he reminded me
that Keimer was in debt for all he possess'd ; that his cred-
itors began to be uneasy; that he kept his shop miserably,
sold often without profit for ready money, and often trusted
without keeping accounts ; that he must therefore fail, which
would make a vacancy I might profit of. I objected my
want of money. He then let me know that his father had a
high opinion of me, and, from some discourse that had pass'd
between them, he was sure would advance money to set us
up, if I would enter into partnership with him. "My time,"
says he, "will be out with Keimer in the spring; by that
time we may have our press and types in from London. I
am sensible I am no workman; if you like it, your skill in
the business shall be set against the stock I furnish, and we
will share the profits equally."

The proposal was agreeable, and I consented; his father
was in town and appro v'd of it ; the more as he saw I had
great influence with his son, had prevail'd on him to abstain
long from dram-drinking, and he hop'd might break him off
that wretched habit entirely, when we came to be so closely
connected. I gave an inventory to the father, who carry'd
it to a merchant ; the things were sent for, the secret was to be
kept till they should arrive, and in the mean time I was to get
work, if I could, at the other printing-house. But I found
no vacancy there, and so remain'd idle a few days, when
Keimer, on a prospect of being employ'd to print some paper
money in New Jersey, which would require cuts and various
types that I only could supply, and apprehending Bradford

294 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

might engage me and get the jobb from him, sent me a very
civil message, that old friends should not part for a few words,
the effect of sudden passion, and wishing me to return. Mer-
edith persuaded me to comply, as it would give more oppor-
tunity for his improvement under my daily instructions; so
I return'd, and we went on more smoothly than for some
time before. The New Jersey jobb was obtain'd, I con-
triv'd a copperplate press for it, the first that had been seen
in the country; I cut several ornaments and checks for the
bills. We went together to Burlington, where I executed the
whole to satisfaction; and he received so large a sum for
the work as to be enabled thereby to keep his head much
longer above water.

At Burlington I made an acquaintance with many princi-
pal people of the province. Several of them had been ap-
pointed by the Assembly a committee to attend the press,
and take care that no more bills were printed than the law
directed. They were therefore, by turns, constantly with us,
and generally he who attended, brought with him a friend or
two for company. My mind having been much more im-
prov'd by reading than Keimer's, I suppose it was for that
reason my conversation seem'd to be more valu'd. They
had me to their houses, introduced me to their friends, and
show'd me much civility; while he, tho' the master, was a
little neglected. In truth, he was an odd fish; ignorant of
common life, fond of rudely opposing receiv'd opinions,
slovenly to extream dirtiness, enthusiastic in some points of
religion, and a little knavish withal.

We continu'd there near three months; and by that time
I could reckon among my acquired friends, Judge Allen,
Samuel Bustill, the secretary of the Province, Isaac Pearson,

THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY 295

Joseph Cooper, and several of the Smiths, members of Assem-
bly, and Isaac Decow, the surveyor-general. The latter was
a shrewd, sagacious old man, who told me that he began for
himself, when young, by wheeling clay for the brickmakers,
learned to write after he was of age, carri'd the chain for sur-
veyors, who taught him surveying, and he had now by his
industry, acquired a good estate; and says he, "I foresee that
you will soon work this man out of his business, and make a
fortune in it at Philadelphia." He had not then the least
intimation of my intention to set up there or anywhere.
These friends were afterwards of great use to me, as I occa-
sionally was to some of them. They all continued their re-
gard for me as long as they lived.

Before I enter upon my public appearance in business, it
may be well to let you know the then state of my mind with
regard to my principles and morals, that you may see how
far those influenc'd the future events of my life. My parents
had early given me religious impressions, and brought me
through my childhood piously in the Dissenting way. But I
was scarce fifteen, when, after doubting by turns of several
points, as I found them disputed in the different books I read,
I began to doubt of Revelation itself. Some books against
Deism fell into my hands ; they were said to be the substance
of sermons preached at Boyle's Lectures. It happened that
they wrought an effect on me quite contrary to what was
intended by them; for the arguments of the Deists, which
were quoted to be refuted, appeared to me much stronger
than the refutations; in short, I soon became a thorough
Deist. My arguments perverted some others, particularly
Collins and Ralph; but, each of them having afterwards
wrong'd me greatly without the least compunction, and

296 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

recollecting Keith's conduct towards me (who was another
freethinker), and my own towards Vernon and Miss Read,
which at times gave me great trouble, I began to suspect
that this doctrine, tho' it might be true, was not very useful.
My London pamphlet, which had for its motto these lines of

Dryden :

" Whatever is, is right. Though purblind man
Sees but a part o' the chain, the nearest link :
His eyes not carrying to the equal beam,
That poises all above ; "

and from the attributes of God, his infinite wisdom, goodness
and power, concluded that nothing could possibly be wrong
in the world, and that vice and virtue were empty distinctions,
no such things existing, appear'd now not so clever a perform-
ance as I once thought it ; and I doubted whether some error
had not insinuated itself unperceiv'd into my argument, so
as to infect all that follow'd, as is common in metaphysical
reasonings.1

I grew convinc'd that truth, sincerity and integrity in deal-
ings between man and man were of the utmost importance
to the felicity of life; and I form'd written resolutions, which
still remain in my journal book, to practice them ever while
I lived. Revelation had indeed no weight with me, as such ;
but I entertain'd an opinion that, though certain actions
might not be bad because they were forbidden by it, or good
because it commanded them, yet probably these actions might
be forbidden because they were bad for us, or commanded
because they were beneficial to us, in their own natures, all
the circumstances of things considered. And this persua-

I 1 have not reprinted this pamphlet. It has no merit. Franklin re-
garded his printing it as an erratum, and he would have been distressed at
its republication. — ED.

THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY 297

sion, with the kind hand of Providence, or some guardian
angel, or accidental favourable circumstances and situations,
or all together, preserved me, thro' this dangerous time of
youth, and the hazardous situations I was sometimes in
among strangers, remote from the eye and advice of my
father, without any willful gross immorality or injustice, that
might have been expected from my want of religion.1 I say
willful, because the instances I have mentioned had some-
thing of necessity in them, from my youth, inexperience, and
the knavery of others. I had therefore a tolerable character
to begin the world with ; I valued it properly, and determin'd
to preserve it.

We had not been long return'd to Philadelphia before the
new types arriv'd from London. We settled with Keimer,
and left him by his consent before he heard of it. We found
a house to hire near the market, and took it. To lessen the
rent, which was then but twenty-four pounds a year, tho' I
have since known it to let for seventy, we took in Thomas
Godfrey, a glazier, and his family, who were to pay a consid-
erable part of it to us, and we to board with them. We had
scarce opened our letters and put our press in order, before
George House, an acquaintance of mine, brought a country-
man to us, whom he had met in the street inquiring for a
printer. All our cash was now expended in the variety of
particulars we had been obliged to procure, and this country-
man's five shillings, being our first-fruits, and coming so
seasonably, gave me more pleasure than any crown I have

1 The words, " Some foolish intrigues with low women excepted, which
from the expense were rather more prejudicial to me than to them," effaced
on the revision, and the sentence which follows in the text written in the
margin. — B.

298 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

since earned; and the gratitude I felt toward House has
made me often more ready than perhaps I should otherwise
have been to assist young beginners.

There are croakers in every country, always boding its
ruin. Such a one then lived in Philadelphia; a person of
note, an elderly man, with a wise look and a very grave man-
ner of speaking; his name was Samuel Mickle. This gen-
tleman, a stranger to me, stopt one day at my door, and
asked me if I was the young man who had lately opened a
new printing-house. Being answered in the affirmative, he
said he was sorry for me, because it was an expensive under-
taking, and the expense would be lost ; for Philadelphia was
a sinking place, the people already half-bankrupts, or near
being so ; all appearances to the contrary, such as new build-
ings and the rise of rents, being to his certain knowledge
fallacious; for they were, in fact, among the things that
would soon ruin us. And he gave me such a detail of mis-
fortunes now existing, or that were soon to exist, that he left
me half melancholy. Had I known him before I engaged
in this business, probably I never should have done it. This
man continued to live in this decaying place, and to declaim
in the same strain, refusing for many years to buy a house
there, because all was going to destruction ; and at last I had
the pleasure of seeing him give five times as much for one as
he might have bought it for when he first began his croak-
ing.

I should have mentioned before, that, in the autumn of
the preceding year, I had form'd most of my ingenious
acquaintance into a club of mutual improvement, which we
called the JUNTO; we met on Friday evenings. The rules
that I drew up required that every member, in his turn,

THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY 299

should produce one or more queries on any point of Morals,
Politics, or Natural Philosophy, to be discuss 'd by the com-
pany; and once in three months produce and read an essay
of his own writing, on any subject he pleased. Our debates
were to be under the direction of a president, and to be con-
ducted in the sincere spirit of inquiry after truth, without
fondness for dispute, or desire of victory; and, to prevent
warmth, all expressions of positiveness in opinions, or direct
contradiction, were after some time made contraband, and
prohibited under small pecuniary penalties.

The first members were Joseph Breintnal, a copyer of
deeds for the scriveners, a good-natur'd, friendly, middle-
ag'd man, a great lover of poetry, reading all he could meet
with, and writing some that was tolerable; very ingenious
in many little Nicknackeries, and of sensible conversation.

Thomas Godfrey,1 a self-taught mathematician, great in
his way, and afterward inventor of what is now called Had-
ley's Quadrant. But he knew little out of his way, and was
not a pleasing companion; as, like most great mathemati-
cians I have met with, he expected universal precision in
everything said, or was for ever denying or distinguishing
upon trifles, to the disturbance of all conversation. He soon
left us.

Nicholas Scull, a surveyor, afterwards surveyor-general,
who lov'd books, and sometimes made a few verses.

William Parsons, bred a shoemaker, but, loving reading,
had acquir'd a considerable share of mathematics, which he

1 Thomas Godfrey, a glazier, born in Bristol, Pennsylvania, 1704; died in
Philadelphia, 1749. For his discovery of the principle upon which he con-
structed his improvement upon Davis's quadrant see Smyth, "Philadelphia
Magazines and their Contributors," 1892, pp. 41-42. — ED.

300 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

first studied with a view to astrology, that he afterwards
laught at it. He also became surveyor-general.

William Maugridge, a joiner, a most exquisite mechanic,
and a solid, sensible man.

Hugh Meredith, Stephen Potts, and George Webb I have
characteriz'd before.

Robert Grace, a young gentleman of some fortune, gen-
erous, lively, and witty ; a lover of punning and of his
friends.

And William Coleman, then a merchant's clerk, about my
age, who had the coolest, clearest head, the best heart, and
the exactest morals of almost any man I ever met with. He
became afterwards a merchant of great note, and one of our
provincial judges. Our friendship continued without inter-
ruption to his death, upwards of forty years; and the club
continued almost as long, and was the best school of phi-
losophy, morality, and politics that then existed in the prov-
ince; for our queries, which were read the week preceding
their discussion, put us upon reading with attention upon the
several subjects, that we might speak more to the purpose;
and here, too, we acquired better habits of conversation,
every thing being studied in our rules which might prevent
our disgusting each other. From hence the long continuance
of the club, which I shall have frequent occasion to speak
further of hereafter.

But my giving this account of it here is to show something
of the interest I had, every one of these exerting themselves
in recommending business to us. Breintnal particularly pro-
cur'd us from the Quakers the printing forty sheets of their
history, the rest being to be done by Keimer; and upon this
we work'd exceedingly hard, for the price was low. It was

THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY 301

a folio, pro patria size, in pica, with long primer notes. I
compos'd of it a sheet a day, and Meredith worked it off at
press; it was often eleven at night, and sometimes later,
before I had finished my distribution for the next day's work,
for the little jobbs sent in by our other friends now and then
put us back. But so determin'd I was to continue doing a
sheet a day of the folio, that one night, when, having impos'd
my forms, I thought my day's work over, one of them by
accident was broken, and two pages reduced to pi, I imme-
diately distributed and compos'd it over again before I went
to bed ; and this industry, visible to our neighbors, began to
give us character and credit; particularly, I was told, that
mention being made of the new printing-office at the mer-
chants' Every-night club, the general opinion was that it
must fail, there being already two printers in the place,
Keimer and Bradford ; but Dr. Baird (whom you and I saw
many years after at his native place, St. Andrew's in Scot-
land) gave a contrary opinion: "For the industry of that
Franklin," says he, "is superior to any thing I ever saw of
the kind ; I see him still at work when I go home from club,
and he is at work again before his neighbors are out of bed."
This struck the rest, and we soon after had offers from one
of them to supply us with stationery ; but as yet we did not
chuse to engage in shop business.

I mention this industry the more particularly and the more
freely, tho' it seems to be talking in my own praise, that those
of my posterity, who shall read it, may know the use of that
virtue, when they see its effects in my favour throughout this
relation.

George Webb, who had found a female friend that lent
him wherewith to purchase his time of Keimer, now came to

302 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

offer himself as a journeyman to us. We could not then
imploy him; but I foolishly let him know as a secret that I
soon intended to begin a newspaper, and might then have
work for him. My hopes of success, as I told him, were
founded on this, that the then only newspaper, printed by
Bradford, was a paltry thing, wretchedly manag'd, no way
entertaining, and yet was profitable to him; I therefore
thought a good paper would scarcely fail of good encourage-
ment. I requested Webb not to mention it; but he told it
to Keimer, who immediately, to be beforehand with me, pub-
lished proposals for printing one himself, on which Webb was
to be employ'd. I resented this; and, to counteract them,
as I could not yet begin our paper, I wrote several pieces of
entertainment for Bradford's paper, under the title of the
BUSY BODY, which Breintnal continu'd some months. By
this means the attention of the publick was fixed on that
paper, and Keimer 's proposals, which we burlesqu'd and
ridicuPd, were disregarded. He began his paper, however,
and, after carrying it on three quarters of a year, with at most
only ninety subscribers, he offered it to me for a trifle; and
I, having been ready some time to go on with it, took it in
hand directly ; and it prov'd in a few years extremely profita-
ble to me.1

I perceive that I am apt to speak in the singular number,
though our partnership still continu'd; the reason may be
that, in fact, the whole management of the business lay upon
me. Meredith was no compositor, a poor pressman, and

1 Under Keimer's management this paper was called The Universal In-
structor in all Arts and Sciences and Pennsylvania Gazette. Franklin's pro-
prietorship dates from October 2, 1729; from which time it was called The
Pennsylvania Gazette. — ED.

THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY 303

seldom sober. My friends lamented my connection with
him, but I was to make the best of it.

Our first papers made a quite different appearance from
any before in the province ; a better type, and better printed ;
but some spirited remarks of my writing, on the dispute then
going on between Governor Burnet and the Massachusets
Assembly, struck the principal people, occasioned the paper
and the manager of it to be much talk'd of, and in a few
weeks brought them all to be our subscribers.

Their example was follow'd by many, and our number
went on growing continually. This was one of the first good
effects of my having learnt a little to scribble ; another was,
that the leading men, seeing a newspaper now in the hands
of one who could also handle a pen, thought it convenient to
oblige and encourage me. Bradford still printed the votes,
and laws, and other publick business. He had printed an
address of the House to the governor, in a coarse, blundering
manner ; we reprinted it elegantly and correctly, and sent one
to every member. They were sensible of the difference: it
strengthened the hands of our friends in the House, and they
voted us their printers for the year ensuing.

Among my friends in the House I must not forget Mr.
Hamilton, before mentioned, who was then returned from
England, and had a seat in it. He interested himself for me
strongly in that instance, as he did in many others afterward,
continuing his patronage till his death.1

Mr. Vernon, about this time, put me in mind of the debt I
ow'd him, but did not press me. I wrote him an ingenuous
letter of acknowledgment, crav'd his forbearance a little
longer, which he allow'd me, and as soon as I was able, I

1 1 got his son once .£500. — Marg. note.

304 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

paid the principal with interest, and many thanks; so that
erratum was in some degree corrected.

But now another difficulty came upon me which I had never
the least reason to expect. Mr. Meredith's father, who was to
have paid for our printing-house, according to the expecta-
tions given me, was able to advance only one hundred pounds
currency, which had been paid; and a hundred more was
due to the merchant, who grew impatient, and su'd us all.
We gave bail, but saw that, if the money could not be rais'd
in time, the suit must soon come to a judgment and execution,
and our hopeful prospects must, with us, be ruined, as the
press and letters must be sold for payment, perhaps at half
price.

In this distress two true friends, whose kindness I have
never forgotten, nor ever shall forget while I can remember
any thing, came to me separately, unknown to each other,
and, without any application from me, offering each of them
to advance me all the money that should be necessary to
enable me to take the whole business upon myself, if that
should be practicable; but they did not like my continuing
the partnership with Meredith, who, as they said, was often
seen drunk in the streets, and playing at low games in ale-
houses, much to our discredit. These two friends were
William Coleman and Robert Grace. I told them I could
not propose a separation while any prospect remain 'd of the
Meredith's fulfilling their part of our agreement, because I
thought myself under great obligations to them for what they
had done, and would do if they could; but, if they finally
fail'd in their performance, and our partnership must be dis-
solv'd, I should then think myself at liberty to accept the
assistance of my friends.

THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY 305

Thus the matter rested for some time, when I said to my
partner, "Perhaps your father is dissatisfied at the part you
have undertaken in this affair of ours, and is unwilling to
advance for you and me what he would for you alone. If
that is the case, tell me, and I will resign the whole to you,
and go about my business." "No," said he, "my father
has really been disappointed, and is really unable ; and I am
unwilling to distress him farther. I see this is a business I
am not fit for. I was bred a farmer, and it was a folly in me
to come to town, and put myself, at thirty years of age, an
apprentice to learn a new trade. Many of our Welsh people
are going to settle in North Carolina, where land is cheap.
I am inclin'd to go with them, and follow my old employment.
You may find friends to assist you. If you will take the debts
of the company upon you ; return to my father the hundred
pound he has advanced; pay my little personal debts, and
give me thirty pounds and a new saddle, I will relinquish the
partnership, and leave the whole in your hands." I agreed
to this proposal : it was drawn up in writing, sign'd, and seal'd
immediately. I gave him what he demanded, and he went
soon after to Carolina, from whence he sent me next year
two long letters, containing the best account that had been
given of that country, the climate, the soil, husbandry, etc.,
for in those matters he was very judicious. I printed them
in the papers, and they gave great satisfaction to the pub-
lick.

As soon as he was gone, I recurr'd to my two friends ; and
because I would not give an unkind preference to either, I
took half of what each had offered and I wanted of one, and
half of the other ; paid off the company's debts, and went
on with the business in my own name, advertising that the

VOL. i — x

306 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

partnership was dissolved. I think this was in or about the
year 1729.*

About this time there was a cry among the people for more
paper money, only fifteen thousand pounds being extant in
the province, and that soon to be sunk. The wealthy inhab-
itants oppos'd any addition, being against all paper currency,
from an apprehension that it would depreciate, as it had done
in New England, to the prejudice of all creditors. We had
discuss'd this point in our Junto, where I was on the side of
an addition, being persuaded that the first small sum struck
in 1723 had done much good by increasing the trade, employ-
ment, and number of inhabitants in the province, since I now
saw all the old houses inhabited, and many new ones build-
ing: whereas I remembered well, that when I first walk'd
about the streets of Philadelphia, eating my roll, I saw most
of the houses in Walnut Street, between Second and Front
streets, with bills on their doors, "To be let" ; and many like-
wise in Chestnut-street and other streets, which made me then
think the inhabitants of the city were deserting it one after
another.

Our debates possess'd me so fully of the subject, that I
wrote and printed an anonymous pamphlet on it, entitled
" The Nature and Necessity of a Paper Currency." It was
well receiv'd by the common people in general ; but the rich
men dislik'd it, for it increas'd and strengthen'd the clamor
for more money, and they happening to have no writers
among them that were able to answer it, their opposition
slacken'd, and the point was carried by a majority in the
House. My friends there, who conceiv'd I had been of some
service, thought fit to reward me by employing me in print-

1 The exact date was July 14, 1730. — ED.

THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY 307

ing the money; a very profitable jobb and a great help to
me. This was another advantage gain'd by my being able
to write.

The utility of this currency became by time and experience
so evident as never afterwards to be much disputed ; so that
it grew soon to fifty-five thousand pounds, and in 1739 to
eighty thousand pounds, since which it arose during war
to upwards of three hundred and fifty thousand pounds,
trade, building, and inhabitants all the while increasing, tho'
I now think there are limits beyond which the quantity may
be hurtful.

I soon after obtain'd, thro' my friend Hamilton, the print-
ing of the Newcastle paper money, another profitable jobb as
I then thought it; small things appearing great to those in
small circumstances; and these, to me, were really great
advantages, as they were great encouragements. He pro-
cured for me, also, the printing of the laws and votes of that
government, which continu'd in my hands as long as I fol-
low'd the business.

I now open'd a little stationer's shop. I had in it blanks
of all sorts, the correctest that ever appear'd among us, being
assisted in that by my friend Breintnal. I had also paper,
parchment, chapmen's books, etc. One Whitemash, a com-
positor I had known in London, an excellent workman, now
came to me, and work'd with me constantly and diligently;
and I took an apprentice, the son of Aquila Rose.

I began now gradually to pay off the debt I was under for
the printing-house. In order to secure my credit and char-
acter as a tradesman, I took care not only to be in reality
industrious and frugal, but to avoid all appearances to the
contrary. I drest plainly; I was seen at no places of idle

308 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

diversion. I never went out a fishing or shooting ; a book,
indeed, sometimes debauch'd me from my work, but that
was seldom, snug, and gave no scandal; and, to show that
I was not above my business, I sometimes brought home the
paper I purchas'd at the stores thro' the streets on a wheel-
barrow. Thus being esteem'd an industrious, thriving young
man, and paying duly for what I bought, the merchants who
imported stationery solicited my custom; others proposed
supplying me with books, and I went on swimmingly. In
the mean time, Keimer's credit and business declining daily,
he was at last forc'd to sell his printing-house to satisfy his
creditors. He went to Barbadoes, and there lived some years
in very poor circumstances.

His apprentice, David Harry, whom I had instructed while
I work'd with him, set up in his place at Philadelphia, having
bought his materials. I was at first apprehensive of a pow-
erful rival in Harry, as his friends were very able, and had a
good deal of interest. I therefore propos'd a partnership to
him, which he, fortunately for me, rejected with scorn. He
was very proud, dress'd like a gentleman, liv'd expensively,
took much diversion and pleasure abroad, ran in debt, and
neglected his business; upon which, all business left him;
and, finding nothing to do, he followed Keimer to Barbadoes,
taking the printing-house with him. There this apprentice
employ'd his former master as a journeyman ; they quarrel'd
often ; Harry went continually behindhand, and at length was
forc'd to sell his types and return to his country work in
Pensilvania. The person that bought them employ'd Keimer
to use them, but in a few years he died.

There remained now no competitor with me at Philadel-
phia but the old one, Bradford ; who was rich and easy, did

THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
a little printing now and then by straggling hands, but was
not very anxious about the business. However, as he kept
the post-office, it was imagined he had better opportunities
of obtaining news ; his paper was thought a better distributer
of advertisements than mine, and therefore had many more,
which was a profitable thing to him, and a disadvantage to
me ; for, tho' I did indeed receive and send papers by the post,
yet the publick opinion was otherwise, for what I did send
was by bribing the riders, who took them privately, Bradford
being unkind enough to forbid it, which occasion'd some re-
sentment on my part ; and I thought so meanly of him for it,
that, when I afterward came into his situation, I took care
never to imitate it.

I had hitherto continu'd to board with Godfrey, who lived
in part of my house with his wife and children, and had one
side of the shop for his glazier's business, tho' he worked little,
being always absorbed in his mathematics. Mrs. Godfrey
projected a match for me with a relation's daughter, took
opportunities of bringing us often together, till a serious court-
ship on my part ensu'd, the girl being in herself very deserv-
ing. The old folks encourag'd me by continual invitations
to supper, and by leaving us together, till at length it was
time to explain. Mrs. Godfrey manag'd our little treaty. I
let her know that I expected as much money with their
daughter as would pay off my remaining debt for the print-
ing-house, which I believe was not then above a hundred
pounds. She brought me word they had no such sum to
spare; I said they might mortgage their house in the loan-
office. The answer to this, after some days, was, that they
did not approve the match; that, on inquiry of Bradford,
they had been informed the printing business was not a

3io THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

profitable one ; the types would soon be worn out, and more
wanted; that S. Keimer and D. Harry had failed one after
the other, and I should probably soon follow them; and,
therefore, I was forbidden the house, and the daughter
shut up.

Whether this was a real change of sentiment or only arti-
fice, on a supposition of our being too far engaged in affection
to retract, and therefore that we should steal a marriage,
which would leave them at liberty to give or withhold what
they pleas'd, I know not ; but I suspected the latter, resented
it, and went no more. Mrs. Godfrey brought me afterward
some more favorable accounts of their disposition, and would
have drawn me on again ; but I declared absolutely my reso-
lution to have nothing more to do with that family. This
was resented by the Godfreys ; we differ'd, and they removed,
leaving me the whole house, and I resolved to take no more
inmates.

But this affair having turned my thoughts to marriage, I
look'd round me and made overtures of acquaintance in other
places; but soon found that, the business of a printer being
generally thought a poor one, I was not to expect money with
a wife, unless with such a one as I should not otherwise think
agreeable. In the mean time, that hard-to-be-governed pas-
sion of youth hurried me frequently into intrigues with low
women that fell in my way, which were attended with some
expense and great inconvenience, besides a continual risque
to my health by a distemper which of all things I dreaded,
though by great good luck I escaped it. A friendly corre-
spondence as neighbours and old acquaintances had con-
tinued between me and Mrs. Read's family, who all had a
regard for me from the time of my first lodging in their house.

THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY 311

I was often invited there and consulted in their affairs,
wherein I sometimes was of service. I piti'd poor Miss
Read's unfortunate situation, who was generally dejected, sel-
dom chearful, and avoided company. I considered my giddi-
ness and inconstancy when in London as in a great degree the
cause of her unhappiness, tho' the mother was good enough to
think the fault more her own than mine, as she had prevented
our marrying before I went thither, and persuaded the other
match in my absence. Our mutual affection was revived,
but there were now great objections to our union. The
match was indeed looked upon as invalid, a preceding wife
being said to be living in England ; but this could not easily
be prov'd, because of the distance; and, tho' there was a
report of his death, it was not certain. Then, tho' it should
be true, he had left many debts, which his successor might
be call'd upon to pay. We ventured, however, over all
these difficulties, and I took her to wife, September ist, 1730.
None of the inconveniences happened that we had appre-
hended; she proved a good and faithful helpmate, assisted
me much by attending the shop; we throve together, and
have ever mutually endeavour'd to make each other happy.
Thus I corrected that great erratum as well as I could.

About this time, our club meeting, not at a tavern, but in
a little room of Mr. Grace's, set apart for that purpose, a
proposition was made by me, that, since our books were often
referr'd to in our disquisitions upon the queries, it might
be convenient to us to have them altogether where we met,
that upon occasion they might be consulted; and by thus
clubbing our books to a common library, we should, while
we lik'd to keep them together, have each of us the advantage
of using the books of all the other members, which would be

312 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

nearly as beneficial as if each owned the whole. It was
lik'd and agreed to, and we fill'd one end of the room with
such books as we could best spare. The number was not
so great as we expected ; and tho' they had been of great use,
yet some inconveniences occurring for want of due care of
them, the collection, after about a year, was separated, and
each took his books home again.

And now I set on foot my first project of a public nature,
that for a subscription library. I drew up the proposals,
got them put into form by our great scrivener, Brockden,
and, by the help of my friends in the Junto, procured fifty
subscribers of forty shillings each to begin with, and ten
shillings a year for fifty years, the term our company was
to continue. We afterwards obtain'd a charter, the com-
pany being increased to one hundred: this was the mother
of all the North American subscription libraries, now so
numerous. It is become a great thing itself, and continu-
ally increasing. These libraries have improved the general
conversation of the Americans, made the common trades-
men and farmers as intelligent as most gentlemen from other
countries, and perhaps have contributed hi some degree to
the stand so generally made throughout the colonies in de-
fence of their privileges.

Mem0. Thus far was written with the intention express'd
in the beginning and therefore contains several little family
anecdotes of no importance to others. What follows was
written many years after in compliance with the advice
contain'd in these letters, and accordingly intended for the
public. The affairs of the Revolution occasioned the in-
terruption.

THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY 313

Letter from Mr. Abel James, with Notes of my Life
(received in Paris').

"My DEAR AND HONORED FRIEND: I have often been
desirous of writing to thee, but could not be reconciled to
the thought, that the letter might fall into the hands of the
British, lest some printer or busy-body should publish some
part of the contents, and give our friend pain, and myself
censure.

"Some time since there fell into my hands, to my great
joy, about twenty-three sheets in thy own handwriting,
containing an account of the parentage and life of thyself,
directed to thy son, ending in the year 1 730, with which there
were notes, likewise in thy writing ; a copy of which I inclose,
in hopes it may be a means, if thou continued it up to a later
period, that the first and latter part may be put together;
and if it is not yet continued, I hope thee will not delay it.
Life is uncertain, as the preacher tells us; and what will
the world say if kind, humane, and benevolent Ben. Franklin
should leave his friends and the world deprived of so pleas-
ing and profitable a work; a work which would be useful
and entertaining not only to a few, but to millions? The
influence writings under that class have on the minds of
youth is very great, and has nowhere appeared to me so plain,
as in our public friend's journals. It almost insensibly
leads the youth into the resolution of endeavoring to become
as good and eminent as the journalist. Should thine, for
instance, when published (and I think it could not fail of it),
lead the youth to equal the industry and temperance of thy
early youth, what a blessing with that class would such a
work be ! I know of no character living, nor many of them

314 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

put together, who has so much in his power as thyself to
promote a greater spirit of industry and early attention to
business, frugality, and temperance with the American
youth. Not that I think the work would have no other merit
and use in the world, far from it; but the first is of such
vast importance that I know nothing that can equal it."

The foregoing letter and the minutes accompanying it
being shown to a friend, I received from him the following :

Letter from Mr. Benjamin Vaughan.

"PARIS, January 31, 1783.

"Mv DEAREST SIR: When I had read over your sheets
of minutes of the principal incidents of your life, recovered
for you by your Quaker acquaintance, I told you I would
send you a letter expressing my reasons why I thought it
would be useful to complete and publish it as he desired.
Various concerns have for some time past prevented this
letter being written, and I do not know whether it was worth
any expectation; happening to be at leisure, however, at
present, I shall by writing, at least interest and instruct
myself; but as the terms I am inclined to use may tend to
offend a person of your manners, I shall only tell you how
I would address any other person, who was as good and as
great as yourself, but less diffident. I would say to him, Sir,
I solicit the history of your life from the following motives:
Your history is so remarkable, that if you do not give it,
somebody else will certainly give it; and perhaps so as
nearly to do as much harm, as your own management of
the thing might do good. It will moreover present a table

THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY 315

of the internal circumstances of your country, which will
very much tend to invite to it settlers of virtuous and manly
minds. And considering the eagerness with which such
information is sought by them, and the extent of your
reputation, I do not know of a more efficacious advertise-
ment than your biography would give. All that has hap-
pened to you is also connected with the detail of the manners
and situation of a rising people; and in this respect I do
not think that the writings of Caesar and Tacitus can be more
interesting to a true judge of human nature and society.
But these, sir, are small reasons, in my opinion, compared
with the chance which your life will give for the forming of
future great men; and in conjunction with your Art of
Virtue (which you design to publish) of improving the fea-
tures of private character, and consequently of aiding all
happiness, both public and domestic. The two works I
allude to, sir, will in particular give a noble rule and example
of self-education. School and other education constantly
proceed upon false principles, and show a clumsy apparatus
pointed at a false mark; but your apparatus is simple, and
the mark a true one; and while parents and young persons
are left destitute of other just means of estimating and becom-
ing prepared for a reasonable course in life, your discovery
that the thing is in many a man's private power, will be
invaluable ! Influence upon the private character, late in
life, is not only an influence late in life, but a weak influence.
It is in youth that we plant our chief habits and prejudices ;
it is in youth that we take our party as to profession, pursuits
and matrimony. In youth, therefore, the turn is given ; in
youth the education even of the next generation is given;
in youth the private and public character is determined;

316 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

and the term of life extending but from youth to age, life
ought to begin well from youth, and more especially before
we take our party as to our principal objects. But your
biography will not merely teach self-education, but the
education of a wise man; and the wisest man will receive
lights and improve his progress, by seeing detailed the con-
duct of another wise man. And why are weaker men to
be deprived of such helps, when we see our race has been
blundering on hi the dark, almost without a guide in this
particular, from the farthest trace of time? Show then,
sir, how much is to be done, both to sons and fathers; and
invite all wise men to become like yourself, and other men
to become wise. When we see how cruel statesmen and
warriors can be to the human race, and how absurd dis-
tinguished men can be to their acquaintance, it will be
instructive to observe the instances multiply of pacific,
acquiescing manners; and to find how compatible it is to
be great and domestic, enviable and yet good-humoured.

"The little private incidents which you will also have to
relate, will have considerable use, as we want, above all things,
rules of prudence in ordinary affairs ; and it will be curious
to see how you have acted in these. It will be so far a sort
of key to life, and explain many things that all men ought
to have once explained to them, to give them a chance of
becoming wise by foresight. The nearest thing to having
experience of one's own, is to have other people's affairs
brought before us in a shape that is interesting; this is sure
to happen from your pen; our affairs and management
will have an air of simplicity or importance that will not
fail to strike ; and I am convinced you have conducted them
with as much originality as if you had been conducting

THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY 317

discussions in politics or philosophy ; and what more worthy
of experiments and system (its importance and its errors
considered) than human life?

"Some men have been virtuous blindly, others have
speculated fantastically, and others have been shrewd to
bad purposes; but you, sir, I am sure, will give under your
hand, nothing but what is at the same moment, wise, practical
and good. Your account of yourself (for I suppose the
parallel I am drawing for Dr. Franklin, will hold not only
in point of character, but of private history) will show that
you are ashamed of no origin ; a thing the more important,
as you prove how little necessary all origin is to happiness,
virtue, or greatness. As no end likewise happens without
a means, so we shall find, sir, that even you yourself framed
a plan by which you became considerable; but at the same
time we may see that though the event is flattering, the means
are as simple as wisdom could make them ; that is, depend-
ing upon nature, virtue, thought and habit. Another thing
demonstrated will be the propriety of every man's waiting
for his time for appearing upon the stage of the world. Our
sensations being very much fixed to the moment, we are apt
to forget that more moments are to follow the first, and con-
sequently that man should arrange his conduct so as to suit
the whole of a life. Your attribution appears to have been
applied to your life, and the passing moments of it have
been enlivened with content and enjoyment, instead of
being tormented with foolish impatience or regrets. Such
a conduct is easy for those who make virtue and themselves
in countenance by examples of other truly great men, of
whom patience is so often the characteristic. Your Quaker
correspondent, sir (for here again I will suppose the subject

3i8 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

of my letter resembling Dr. Franklin), praised your frugality,
diligence and temperance, which he considered as a pattern
for all youth ; but it is singular that he should have forgotten
your modesty and your disinterestedness, without which
you never could have waited for your advancement, or found
your situation in the mean time comfortable; which is a
strong lesson to show the poverty of glory and the impor-
tance of regulating our minds. If this correspondent had
known the nature of your reputation as well as I do, he would
have said, Your former writings and measures would secure
attention to your Biography, and Art of Virtue; and your
Biography and Art of Virtue, in return, would secure attention
to them. This is an advantage attendant upon a various
character, and which brings all that belongs to it into greater
play ; and it is the more useful, as perhaps more persons are
at a loss for the means of improving their minds and char-
acters, than they are for the time or the inclination to do it.
But there is one concluding reflection, sir, that will shew the
use of your life as a mere piece of biography. This style of
writing seems a little gone out of vogue, and yet it is a very
useful one; and your specimen of it may be particularly
serviceable, as it will make a subject of comparison with
the lives of various public cut-throats and intriguers, and
with absurd monastic self-tormentors or vain literary triflers.
If it encourages more writings of the same kind with your
own, and induces more men to spend lives fit to be written,
it will be worth all Plutarch's Lives put together. But being
tired of figuring to myself a character of which every feature
suits only one man in the world, without giving him the
praise of it, I shall end my letter, my dear Dr. Franklin,
with a personal application to your proper self. I am

THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
earnestly desirous, then, my dear sir, that you should let
the world into the traits of your genuine character, as civil
broils may otherwise tend to disguise or traduce it. Con-
sidering your great age, the caution of your character, and
your peculiar style of thinking, it is not likely that any one
besides yourself can be sufficiently master of the facts of
your life, or the intentions of your mind. Besides all this,
the immense revolution of the present period, will necessarily
turn our attention towards the author of it, and when virtu-
ous principles have been pretended in it, it will be highly
important to shew that such have really influenced; and,
as your own character will be the principal one to receive a
scrutiny, it is proper (even for its effects upon your vast and
rising country, as well as upon England and upon Europe)
that it should stand respectable and eternal. For the further-
ance of human happiness, I have always maintained that it
is necessary to prove that man is not even at present a vicious
and detestable animal; and still more to prove that good
management may greatly amend him ; and it is for much the
same reason, that I am anxious to see the opinion established,
that there are fair characters existing among the individuals
of the race ; for the moment that all men, without exception,
shall be conceived abandoned, good people will cease efforts
deemed to be hopeless, and perhaps think of taking their
share in the scramble of life, or at least of making it com-
fortable principally for themselves. Take then, my dear
sir, this work most speedily into hand: shew yourself good
as you are good; temperate as you are temperate; and
above all things, prove yourself as one, who from your in-
fancy have loved justice, liberty and concord, in a way that
has made it natural and consistent for you to have acted, as

320 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

we have seen you act in the last seventeen years of your life.
Let Englishmen be made not only to respect, but even to love
you. When they think well of individuals in your native
country, they will go nearer to thinking well of your country ;
and when your countrymen see themselves well thought
of by Englishmen, they will go nearer to thinking well of
England. Extend your views even further; do not stop at
those who speak the English tongue, but after having settled
so many points in nature and politics, think of bettering the
whole race of men. As I have not read any part of the life
in question, but know only the character that lived it, I write
somewhat at hazard. I am sure, however, that the life and
the treatise I allude to (on the Art of Virtue) will necessarily
fulfil the chief of my expectations; and still more so if you
take up the measure of suiting these performances to the
several views above stated. Should they even prove un-
successful in all that a sanguine admirer of yours hopes
from them, you will at least have framed pieces to interest
the human mind; and whoever gives a feeling of pleasure
that is innocent to man, has added so much to the fair side
of a life otherwise too much darkened by anxiety and too
much injured by pain. In the hope, therefore, that you
will listen to the prayer addressed to you in this letter, I
beg to subscribe myself, my dearest sir, etc., etc.,

Signed, "BENJ. VAUGHAN."

Continuation of the Account 0} my Life, begun at
Passy, near Paris, 1784.

It is some time since I receiv'd the above letters, but I
have been too busy till now to think of complying with the
request they contain. It might, too, be much better done

THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY 321

if I were at home among my papers, which would aid my
memory, and help to ascertain dates; but my return being
uncertain, and having just now a little leisure, I will endeavour
to recollect and write what I can; if I live to get home, it
may there be corrected and improv'd.

Not having any copy here of what is already written, I
know not whether an account is given of the means I used to
establish the Philadelphia public library, which, from a small
beginning, is now become so considerable, though I remem-
ber to have come down to near the time of that transaction
. I will therefore begin here with an account of it,
which may be struck out if found to have been already given.

At the time I establish'd myself in Pennsylvania, there
was not a good bookseller's shop in any of the colonies to the
southward of Boston. In New York and Philad'a the printers
were indeed stationers; they sold only paper, etc., almanacs,
ballads, and a few common school-books. Those who lov'd
reading were oblig'd to send for their books from England;
the members of the Junto had each a few. We had left the
alehouse, where we first met, and hired a room to hold our
club in. I propos'd that we should all of us bring our books
to that room, where they would not only be ready to consult
in our conferences, but become a common benefit, each
of us being at liberty to borrow such as he wish'd to read at
home. This was accordingly done, and for some time
contented us.

Finding the advantage of this little collection, I propos'd
to render the benefit from books more common, by com-
mencing a public subscription library. I drew a sketch
of the plan and rules that would be necessary, and got a
skilful conveyancer, Mr. Charles Brockden, to put the whole
VOL. i — y

322 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

in form of articles of agreement to be subscribed, by which
each subscriber engag'd to pay a certain sum down for the
first purchase of books, and an annual contribution for
increasing them. So few were the readers at that time in
Philadelphia, and the majority of us so poor, that I was not
able, with great industry, to find more than fifty persons,
mostly young tradesmen, willing to pay down for this pur-
pose forty shillings each, and ten shillings per annum. On
this little fund we began. The books were imported; the
library was opened one day in the week for lending to the
subscribers, on their promissory notes to pay double the value
if not duly returned. The institution soon manifested its
utility, was imitated by other towns, and in other prov-
inces. The libraries were augmented by donations ; reading
became fashionable; and our people, having no publick
amusements to divert their attention from study, became
better acquainted with books, and in a few years were ob-
serv'd by strangers to be better instructed and more intelligent
than people of the same rank generally are in other countries.

When we were about to sign the above-mentioned articles,
which were to be binding on us, our heirs, etc., for fifty years,
Mr. Brockden, the scrivener, said to us, "You are young
men, but it is scarcely probable that any of you will live to see
the expiration of the term fix'd in the instrument." A num-
ber of us, however, are yet living; but the instrument was
after a few years rendered null by a charter that incorporated
and gave perpetuity to the company.

The objections and reluctances I met with in soliciting
the subscriptions, made me soon feel the impropriety of
presenting one's self as the proposer of any useful project,
that might be suppos'd to raise one's reputation in the smallest

THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY 323

degree above that of one's neighbours, when one has need of
their assistance to accomplish that project. I therefore put
myself as much as I could out of sight, and stated it as a
scheme of a number 0} friends, who had requested me to go
about and propose it to such as they thought lovers of reading.
In this way my affair went on more smoothly, and I ever after
practis'd it on such occasions ; and, from my frequent suc-
cesses, can heartily recommend it. The present little sacrifice
of your vanity will afterwards be amply repaid. If it remains
a while uncertain to whom the merit belongs, some one more
vain than yourself will be encouraged to claim it, and then
even envy will be disposed to do you justice by plucking those
assumed feathers, and restoring them to their right owner.

This library afforded me the means of improvement by
constant study, for which I set apart an hour or two each
day, and thus repair'd in some degree the loss of the learned
education my father once intended for me. Reading was
the only amusement I allow'd myself. I spent no time in
taverns, games, or frolicks of any kind; and my industry
in my business continu'd as indefatigable as it was necessary.
I was indebted for my printing-house ; I had a young family
coming on to be educated, and I had to contend with for busi-
ness two printers, who were established in the place before
me. My circumstances, however, grew daily easier. My
original habits of frugality continuing, and my father having,
among his instructions to me when a boy, frequently repeated
a proverb of Solomon, "Seest thou a man diligent in his
calling, he shall stand before kings, he shall not stand before
mean men," I from thence considered industry as a means
of obtaining wealth and distinction, which encourag'd me,
tho' I did not think that I should ever literally stand before

324 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

kings, which, however, has since happened ; for I have stood
before five, and even had the honour of sitting down with
one, the King of Denmark, to dinner.

We have an English proverb that says, "He that woidd
thrive, must ask his wife" It was lucky for me that I had
one as much dispos'd to industry and frugality as myself.
She assisted me chearfully in my business, folding and stitch-
ing pamphlets, tending shop, purchasing old linen rags for
the paper- makers, etc., etc. We kept no idle servants, our
table was plain and simple, our furniture of the cheapest.
For instance, my breakfast was a long time bread and
milk (no tea), and I ate it out of a twopenny earthen por-
ringer, with a pewter spoon. But mark how luxury will
enter families, and make a progress, in spite of principle:
being call'd one morning to breakfast, I found it in a China
bowl, with a spoon of silver ! They had been bought for me
without my knowledge by my wife, and had cost her the enor-
mous sum of three-and-twenty shillings, for which she had
no other excuse or apology to make, but that she thought
her husband deserv'd a silver spoon and China bowl as well
as any of his neighbors. This was the first appearance of
plate and China in our house, which afterward, in a course
of years, as our wealth increas'd, augmented gradually to
several hundred pounds in value.

I had been religiously educated as a Presbyterian; and
tho' some of the dogmas of that persuasion, such as the eter-
nal decrees of God, election, reprobation, etc., appeared to me
unintelligible, others doubtful, and I early absented myself
from the public assemblies of the sect, Sunday being my
studying day, I never was without some religious principles.
I never doubted, for instance, the existence of the Deity;

THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
that he made the world, and govern'd it by his Providence;
that the most acceptable service of God was the doing good
to man ; that our souls are immortal ; and that all crime will
be punished, and virtue rewarded, either here or hereafter.
These I esteem'd the essentials of every religion ; and, being
to be found in all the religions we had in our country, I re-
spected them all, tho' with different degrees of respect, as I
found them more or less mix'd with other articles, which,
without any tendency to inspire, promote, or confirm morality,
serv'd principally to divide us, and make us unfriendly to one
another. This respect to all, with an opinion that the worst
had some good effects, induc'd me to avoid all discourse that
might tend to lessen the good opinion another might have of
his own religion; and as our province increas'd in people,
and new places of worship were continually wanted, and gen-
erally erected by voluntary contribution, my mite for such
purpose, whatever might be the sect, was never refused.

Tho' I seldom attended any public worship, I had still an
opinion of its propriety, and of its utility when rightly con-
ducted, and I regularly paid my annual subscription for the
support of the only Presbyterian minister or meeting we had
in Philadelphia. He us'd to visit me sometimes as a friend,
and admonish me to attend his administrations, and I was
now and then prevail'd on to do so, once for five Sundays
successively. Had he been in my opinion a good preacher,
perhaps I might have continued, notwithstanding the occa-
sion I had for the Sunday's leisure in my course of study;
but his discourses were chiefly either polemic arguments, or
explications of the peculiar doctrines of our sect, and were
all to me very dry, uninteresting, and unedifying, since not a
single moral principle was inculcated or enforc'd, their aim

326 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

seeming to be rather to make us Presbyterians than good
citizens.

At length he took for his text that verse of the fourth chap-
ter of Philippians, "Finally, brethren, whatsoever things are
true, honest, just, pure, lovely, or of good report, if there be any
virtue, or any praise, think on these things." And I imagin'd,
in a sermon on such a text, we could not miss of having some
morality. But he confin'd himself to five points only, as
meant by the apostle, viz. : i . Keeping holy the Sabbath day.
2. Being diligent in reading the holy Scriptures. 3. Attend-
ing duly the publick worship. 4. Partaking of the Sacrament.
5. Paying a due respect to God's ministers. These might be
all good things ; but, as they were not the kind of good things
that I expected from that text, I despaired of ever meeting
with them from any other, was disgusted, and attended his
preaching no more. I had some years before compos 'd a
little Liturgy, or form of prayer, for my own private use (viz.,
in 1728), entitled, Articles of Belief and Acts of Religion. I
return'd to the use of this, and went no more to the public
assemblies. My conduct might be blameable, but I leave it,
without attempting further to excuse it ; my present purpose
being to relate facts, and not to make apologies for them.

It was about this time I conceiv'd the bold and arduous
project of arriving at moral perfection. I wish'd to live with-
out committing any fault at any time; I would conquer all
that either natural inclination, custom, or company might
lead me into. As I knew, or thought I knew, what was right
and wrong, I did not see why I might not always do the one
and avoid the other. But I soon found I had undertaken a
task of more difficulty than I had imagined. While my care
was employ 'd in guarding against one fault, I was often sur-

THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY 327

prised by another; habit took the advantage of inattention;
inclination was sometimes too strong for reason. I concluded,
at length, that the mere speculative conviction that it was our
interest to be completely virtuous, was not sufficient to pre-
vent our slipping; and that the contrary habits must be
broken, and good ones acquired and established, before we
can have any dependence on a steady, uniform rectitude of
conduct. For this purpose I therefore contrived the follow-
ing method.

In the various enumerations of the moral virtues I had met
with in my reading, I found the catalogue more or less numer-
ous, as different writers included more or fewer ideas under
the same name. Temperance, for example, was by some
confined to eating and drinking, while by others it was ex-
tended to mean the moderating every other pleasure, appe-
tite, inclination, or passion, bodily or mental, even to our
avarice and ambition. I propos'd to myself, for the sake
of clearness, to use rather more names, with fewer ideas
annex'd to each, than a few names with more ideas; and I
included under thirteen names of virtues all that at that time
occurr'd to me as necessary or desirable, and annexed to each
a short precept, which fully express'd the extent I gave to its
meaning.

These names of virtues, with their precepts, were :

i. TEMPERANCE.
Eat not to dullness ; drink not to elevation.

2. SILENCE.

Speak not but what may benefit others or yourself; avoid
trifling conversation.

328 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

3. ORDER.
Let all your things have their places ; let each part of your

business have its time.

4. RESOLUTION.

Resolve to perform what you ought; perform without fail

what you resolve.

5. FRUGALITY.

Make no expense but to do good to others or yourself;

i.e., waste nothing.

6. INDUSTRY.

Lose no time; be always employ'd in something useful;
cut off all unnecessary actions.

7. SINCERITY.

Use no hurtful deceit ; think innocently and justly, and, if
you speak, speak accordingly.

8. JUSTICE.
Wrong none by doing injuries, or omitting the benefits

that are your duty.

9. MODERATION.

Avoid extreams ; forbear resenting injuries so much as you

think they deserve.

10. CLEANLINESS.

Tolerate no uncleanliness in body, cloaths, or habitation.

ii. TRANQUILLITY.
Be not disturbed at trifles, or at accidents common or

unavoidable.

12. CHASTITY.

Rarely use venery but for health or offspring, never to dul-
ness, weakness, or the injury of your own or another's peace

or reputation.

13. HUMILITY.

Imitate Jesus and Socrates.

THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY 329

My intention being to acquire the habitude of all these
virtues, I judg'd it would be well not to distract my attention
by attempting the whole at once, but to fix it on one of them
at a time ; and, when I should be master of that, then to pro-
ceed to another, and so on, till I should have gone thro' the
thirteen; and, as the previous acquisition of some might
facilitate the acquisition of certain others, I arrang'd them
with that view, as they stand above. Temperance first, as
it tends to procure that coolness and clearness of head, which
is so necessary where constant vigilance was to be kept up,
and guard maintained against the unremitting attraction of
ancient habits, and the force of perpetual temptations. This
being acquir'd and establish'd, Silence would be more easy;
and my desire being to gain knowledge at the same time that
I improv'd in virtue, and considering that in conversation it
was obtain'd rather by the use of the ears than of the tongue,
and therefore wishing to break a habit I was getting into of
prattling, punning, and joking, which only made me accept-
able to trifling company, I gave Silence the second place.
This and the next, Order, I expected would allow me more
time for attending to my project and my studies. Resolution,
once become habitual, would keep me firm in my endeav-
ours to obtain all the subsequent virtues; Frugality and
Industry freeing me from my remaining debt, and produc-
ing affluence and independence, would make more easy
the practice of Sincerity and Justice, etc., etc. Conceiving
then, that, agreeably to the advice of Pythagoras in his
Golden Verses, daily examination would be necessary, I
contrived the following method for conducting that exam-
ination.

I made a little book, in which I allotted a page for each of

330 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

the virtues.1 I rul'd each page with red ink, so as to have
seven columns, one for each day of the week, marking each
column with a letter for the day. I cross'd these columns
with thirteen red lines, marking the beginning of each line
with the first letter of one of the virtues, on which line, and
in its proper column, I might mark, by a little black spot,
every fault I found upon examination to have been committed
respecting that virtue upon that day.

Form of the pages.

TEMPERANCE.

EAT NOT TO DULNESS.
DRINK NOT TO ELEVATION.

S.

M.

T.

W.

T.

F.

S.

T.

S.

*

*

*

*

O.

* *

*

*

*

*

*

R.

*

*

F.

*

*

I.

*

S.

J-

M.

C.

T.

C.

H.

1 This « little book " is dated July i, 1733. — W. T. F.

THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY 331

I determined to give a week's strict attention to each of the
virtues successively. Thus, in the first week, my great guard
was to avoid every the least offence against Temperance, leav-
ing the other virtues to their ordinary chance, only marking
every evening the faults of the day. Thus, if in the first
week I could keep my first line, marked T, clear of spots, I
suppos'd the habit of that virtue so much strengthen'd, and
its opposite weaken'd, that I might venture extending my
attention to include the next, and for the following week keep
both lines clear of spots. Proceeding thus to the last, I could
go thro' a course compleat in thirteen weeks, and four courses
in a year. And like him who, having a garden to weed, does
not attempt to eradicate all the bad herbs at once, which
would exceed his reach and his strength, but works on one
of the beds at a time, and, having accomplish'd the first, pro-
ceeds to a second, so I should have, I hoped, the encourag-
ing pleasure of seeing on my pages the progress I made in
virtue, by clearing successively my lines of their spots, till
in the end, by a number of courses, I should be happy in
viewing a clean book, after a thirteen weeks' daily examina-
tion.

This my little book had for its motto these lines from Addi-
son's Cato:

" Here will I hold. If there's a power above us
(And that there is, all nature cries aloud
Thro1 all her works), He must delight in virtue;
And that which he delights in must be happy."

Another from Cicero,

"O vitas Philosophia dux! O virtutum indagatrix expultrixque
vitiorum ! Unus dies, bene et ex praeceptis tuis actus, peccanti immor-
talitati est anteponendus."

332 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

Another from the Proverbs of Solomon, speaking of wisdom
or virtue :

•• Length of days is in her right hand, and in her left hand riches
and honour. Her ways are ways of pleasantness, and all her paths are
peace." iii. 16, 17.

And conceiving God to be the fountain of wisdom, I thought
it right and necessary to solicit his assistance for obtaining it ;
to this end I formed the following little prayer, which was
prefix'd to my tables of examination, for daily use.

" O powerful Goodness1, bountiful Father! merciful Guide! In-
crease in me that wisdom which discovers my truest interest. Strengthen
my resolutions to perform what that wisdom dictates. Accept my kind
offices to thy other children as the only return in my power for thy con-
tinual favours to me.""

I used also sometimes a little prayer which I took from
Thomson's Poems, viz. :

u Father of light and life, thou Good Supreme !
O teach me what is good ; teach me Thyself!
Save me from folly, vanity, and vice,
From every low pursuit ; and fill my soul
With knowledge, conscious peace, and virtue pure ;
Sacred, substantial, never-fading bliss ! "

The precept of Order requiring that every part of my busi-
ness should have its allotted time, one page in my little book
contain'd the following scheme of employment for the twenty-
four hours of a natural day.

THE MORNING.
Question. What good shall
I do this day?
Rise, wash, and address Pow-
erful Goodness! Contrive day's
business, and take the resolu-
tion of the day; prosecute the
present study, and breakfast.

Work.
THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
NOON.

s] Read, or overlook my ac-
: J counts, and dine.

Work.

EVENING.

Question. What good have I
done to-day?

NIGHT.
7
9J
ii
I
3
Put things in their places.
Supper. Music or diversion,
or conversation. Examination
of the day.

Sleep.

I enter'd upon the execution of this plan for self-examina-
tion, and continu'd it with occasional intermissions for some
time. I was surpris'd to find myself so much fuller of faults
than I had imagined; but I had the satisfaction of seeing
them diminish. To avoid the trouble of renewing now and
then my little book, which, by scraping out the marks on the
paper of old faults to make room for new ones in a new course,
became full of holes, I transferr'd my tables and precepts to
the ivory leaves of a memorandum book, on which the lines
were drawn with red ink, that made a durable stain, and on
those lines I mark'd my faults with a black-lead pencil, which
marks I could easily wipe out with a wet sponge. After a
while I went thro' one course only in a year, and afterward
only one in several years, till at length I omitted them entirely,
being employ'd in voyages and business abroad, with a mul-
tiplicity of affairs that interfered; but I always carried my
little book with me.

334 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

My scheme of ORDER gave me the most trouble; and I
found that, tho' it might be practicable where a man's busi-
ness was such as to leave him the disposition of his time, that
of a journeyman printer, for instance, it was not possible to
be exactly observed by a master, who must mix with the
world, and often receive people of business at their own
hours. Order, too, with regard to places for things, papers,
etc., I found extreamly difficult to acquire. I had not been
early accustomed to it, and, having an exceeding good mem-
ory, I was not so sensible of the inconvenience attending
want of method. This article, therefore, cost me so much
painful attention, and my faults in it vexed me so much, and
I made so little progress in amendment, and had such fre-
quent relapses, that I was almost ready to give up the attempt,
and content myself with a faulty character in that respect,
like the man who, in buying an ax of a smith, my neighbour,
desired to have the whole of its surface as bright as the edge.
The smith consented to grind it bright for him if he would
turn the wheel ; he turn'd, while the smith press'd the broad
face of the ax hard and heavily on the stone, which made the
turning of it very fatiguing. The man came every now and
then from the wheel to see how the work went on, and at
length would take his ax as it was, without farther grinding.
"No," said the smith, "turn on, turn on; we shall have it
bright by-and-by; as yet, it is only speckled." "Yes," says
the man, "but I think I like a speckled ax best." And I be-
lieve this may have been the case with many, who, having,
for want of some such means as I employ'd, found the diffi-
culty of obtaining good and breaking bad habits in other
points of vice and virtue, have given up the struggle, and
concluded that "a speckled ax was best"; for something,

THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY 335

that pretended to be reason, was every now and then suggest-
ing to me that such extream nicety as I exacted of myself
might be a kind of foppery in morals, which, if it were known,
would make me ridiculous; that a perfect character might
be attended with the inconvenience of being envied and hated ;
and that a benevolent man should allow a few faults in him-
self, to keep his friends in countenance.

In truth, I found myself incorrigible with respect to Order ;
and now I am grown old, and my memory bad, I feel very
sensibly the want of it. But, on the whole, tho' I never
arrived at the perfection I had been so ambitious of obtain-
ing, but fell far short of it, yet I was, by the endeavour, a
better and a happier man than I otherwise should have been
if I had not attempted it ; as those who aim at perfect writing
by imitating the engraved copies, tho' they never reach the
wish'd-for excellence of those copies, their hand is mended
by the endeavour, and is tolerable while it continues fair and
legible.

It may be well my posterity should be informed that to
this little artifice, with the blessing of God, their ancestor
ow'd the constant felicity of his life, down to his ygth year
in which this is written. What reverses may attend the
remainder is in the hand of Providence; but, if they arrive,
the reflection on past happiness enjoy'd ought to help his
bearing them with more resignation. To Temperance he
ascribes his long-continued health, and what is still left to
him of a good constitution; to Industry and Frugality, the
early easiness of his circumstances and acquisition of his
fortune, with all that knowledge that enabled him to be a
useful citizen, and obtained for him some degree of reputa-
tion among the learned; to Sincerity and Justice, the con-

336 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

fidence of his country, and the honorable employs it conferred
upon him ; and to the joint influence of the whole mass of the
virtues, even in the imperfect state he was able to acquire
them, all that evenness of temper, and that cheerfulness in
conversation, which makes his company still sought for, and
agreeable even to his younger acquaintance. I hope, there-
fore, that some of my descendants may follow the example
and reap the benefit.

It will be remark'd that, tho' my scheme was not wholly
without religion, there was hi it no mark of any of the dis-
tinguishing tenets of any particular sect. I had purposely
avoided them; for, being fully persuaded of the utility and
excellency of my method, and that it might be serviceable
to people in all religions, and intending some time or other to
publish it, I would not have any thing in it that should
prejudice any one, of any sect, against it. I purposed writing
a little comment on each virtue, in which I would have shown
the advantages of possessing it, and the mischiefs attending
its opposite vice; and I should have called my book THE
ART OF VIRTUE,1 because it would have shown the means
and manner of obtaining virtue, which would have distin-
guished it from the mere exhortation to be good, that does
not instruct and indicate the means, but is like the apostle's
man of verbal charity, who only without showing to the naked
and hungry how or where they might get clothes or victuals,
exhorted them to be fed and clothed. — James ii. 15, 16.

But it so happened that my intention of writing and pub-
lishing this comment was never fulfilled. I did, indeed, from
time to time, put down short hints of the sentiments, reason-
ings, etc., to be made use of in it, some of which I have still

1 Nothing so likely to make a man's fortune as virtue. — Marg. note.

THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY 337

by me ; but the necessary close attention to private business
in the earlier part of my life, and public business since, have
occasioned my postponing it; for, it being connected in my
mind with a great and extensive project, that required the
whole man to execute, and which an unforeseen succession
of employs prevented my attending to, it has hitherto re-
main'd unfmish'd.

In this piece it was my design to explain and enforce this
doctrine, that vicious actions are not hurtful because they
are forbidden, but forbidden because they are hurtful, the
nature of man alone considered ; that it was, therefore, every
one's interest to be virtuous who wish'd to be happy even
in this world; and I should, from this circumstance (there
being always in the world a number of rich merchants, no-
bility, states, and princes, who have need of honest instru-
ments for the management of their affairs, and such being so
rare), have endeavoured to convince young persons that no
qualities were so likely to make a poor man's fortune as those
of probity and integrity.

My list of virtues contain'd at first but twelve; but a
Quaker friend having kindly informed me that I was gener-
ally thought proud; that my pride show'd itself frequently
in conversation; that I was not content with being in the
right when discussing any point, but was overbearing, and
rather insolent, of which he convinc'd me by mentioning
several instances ; I determined endeavouring to cure myself,
if I could, of this vice or folly among the rest, and I added
Humility to my list, giving an extensive meaning to the word.

I cannot boast of much success in acquiring the reality of
this virtue, but I had a good deal with regard to the appear-
ance of it. I made it a rule to forbear all direct contradiction

VOL. I — Z

338 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

to the sentiments of others, and all positive assertion of my
own. I even forbid myself, agreeably to the old laws of our
Junto, the use of every word or expression in the language
that imported a fix'd opinion, such as certainly, undoubtedly,
etc., and I adopted, instead of them, / conceive, I apprehend,
or / imagine a thing to be so or so ; or it so appears to me at
present. When another asserted something that I thought an
error, I deny'd myself the pleasure of contradicting him
abruptly, and of showing immediately some absurdity in his
proposition; and in answering I began by observing that
in certain cases or circumstances his opinion would be right,
but in the present case there appeared or seem'd to me some
difference, etc. I soon found the advantage of this change
in my manner ; the conversations I engag'd in went on more
pleasantly. The modest way in which I propos'd my opin-
ions procur'd them a readier reception and less contradic-
tion ; I had less mortification when I was found to be in the
wrong, and I more easily prevail'd with others to give up their
mistakes and join with me when I happened to be in the right.
And this mode, which I at first put on with some violence
to natural inclination, became at length so easy, and so
habitual to me, that perhaps for these fifty years past no one
has ever heard a dogmatical expression escape me. And to
this habit (after my character of integrity) I think it princi-
pally owing that I had early so much weight with my fellow-
citizens when I proposed new institutions, or alterations in
the old, and so much influence in public councils when I
became a member; for I was but a bad speaker, never elo-
quent, subject to much hesitation in my choice of words,
hardly correct in language, and yet I generally carried my
points.

THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY 339

In reality, there is, perhaps, no one of our natural passions
so hard to subdue as -pride. Disguise it, struggle with it,
beat it down, stifle it, mortify it as much as one pleases, it
is still alive, and will every now and then peep out and show
itself; you will see it, perhaps, often in this history; for,
even if I could conceive that I had compleatly overcome it, I
should probably be proud of my humility.

[Thus far written at Passy, 1784.]

["/ am now about to write at home, August, 1788, but can
not have the help expected from my papers, many of
them being lost in the war. I have, however, found the
following. "] *

HAVING mentioned a great and extensive project which I
had conceiv'd, it seems proper that some account should be
here given of that project and its object. Its first rise in my
mind appears in the following little paper, accidentally pre-
serv'd, viz.:

Observations on my reading history, in Library, May ipth,

"That the great affairs of the world, the wars, revolutions,
etc., are carried on and affected by parties.

"That the view of these parties is their present general
interest, or what they take to be such.

"That the different views of these different parties occa-
sion all confusion.

"That while a party is carrying on a general design, each
man has his particular private interest in view.

"That as soon as a party has gain'd its general point,
each member becomes intent upon his particular interest;

1 This is a marginal memorandum. — B.

340 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

which, thwarting others, breaks that party into divisions,
and occasions more confusion.

"That few in public affairs act from a meer view of the
good of their country, whatever they may pretend ; and, tho'
their actings bring real good to their country, yet men pri-
marily considered that their own and their country's interest
was united, and did not act from a principle of benevolence.

"That fewer still, in public affairs, act with a view to the
good of mankind.

"There seems to me at present to be great occasion for
raising a United Party for Virtue, by forming the virtuous
and good men of all nations into a regular body, to be gov-
ern'd by suitable good and wise rules, which good and wise
men may probably be more unanimous in their obedience to,
than common people are to common laws.

"I at present think that whoever attempts this aright, and
is well qualified, can not fail of pleasing God, and of meeting
with success. B. F. "

Revolving this project in my mind, as to be undertaken
hereafter, when my circumstances should afford me the neces-
sary leisure, I put down from time to time, on pieces of paper,
such thoughts as occurr'd to me respecting it. Most of
these are lost ; but I find one purporting to be the substance
of an intended creed, containing, as I thought, the essentials
of every known religion, and being free of every thing that
might shock the professors of any religion. It is express'd
in these words, viz.:

"That there is one God, who made all things.

"That he governs the world by his providence.

"That he ought to be worshiped by adoration, prayer, and
thanksgiving.

THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY 341

"But that the most acceptable service of God is doing
good to man.

"That the soul is immortal.

"And that God will certainly reward virtue and punish
vice, either here or hereafter. " *

My ideas at that time were, that the sect should be begun
and spread at first among young and single men only; that
each person to be initiated should not only declare his assent
to such creed, but should have exercised himself with the thir-
teen weeks' examination and practice of the virtues, as in
the before-mention'd model; that the existence of such a
society should be kept a secret, till it was become consider-
able, to prevent solicitations for the admission of improper
persons, but that the members should each of them search
among his acquaintance for ingenuous, well-disposed youths,
to whom, with prudent caution, the scheme should be gradu-
ally communicated; that the members should engage to
afford their advice, assistance, and support to each other
in promoting one another's interests, business, and advance-
ment in life; that, for distinction, we should be call'd The
Society of the Free and Easy: free, as being, by the general
practice and habit of the virtues, free from the dominion of
vice; and particularly by the practice of industry and fru-
gality, free from debt, which exposes a man to confinement,
and a species of slavery to his creditors.

This is as much as I can now recollect of the project,
except that I communicated it in part to two young men,
who adopted it with some enthusiasm ; but my then nar-

1 In the Middle Ages, Franklin, if such a phenomenon as Franklin were
possible in the Middle Ages, would probably have been the founder of a
monastic order. — B.

342 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

row circumstances, and the necessity I was under of sticking
close to my business, occasion'd my postponing the further
prosecution of it at that time ; and my multifarious occupa-
tions, public and private, induc'd me to continue postpon-
ing, so that it has been omitted till I have no longer strength
or activity left sufficient for such an enterprise; tho' I am
still of opinion that it was a practicable scheme, and might
have been very useful, by forming a great number of good
citizens; and I was not discourag'd by the seeming magni-
tude of the undertaking, as I have always thought that one
man of tolerable abilities may work great changes, and
accomplish great affairs among mankind, if he first forms
a good plan, and, cutting off all amusements or other
employments that would divert his attention, makes the
execution of that same plan his sole study and busi-
ness.

In 1732 I first publish'd my Almanack, under the name
of Richard Saunders; it was continu'd by me about twenty-
five years, commonly call'd Poor Richard's Almanack. I
endeavour'd to make it both entertaining and useful, and it
accordingly came to be hi such demand, that I reap'd con-
siderable profit from it, vending annually near ten thousand.
And observing that it was generally read, scarce any neigh-
borhood in the province being without it, I consider'd it as
a proper vehicle for conveying instruction among the common
people, who bought scarcely any other books; I therefore
filled all the little spaces that occurr'd between the remark-
able days in the calendar with proverbial sentences, chiefly
such as inculcated industry and frugality, as the means of
procuring wealth, and thereby securing virtue; it being
more difficult for a man in want, to act always honestly, as,

THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY 343

to use here one of those proverbs, it is hard for an empty
sack to stand upright.

These proverbs, which contained the wisdom of many ages
and nations, I assembled and form'd into a connected dis-
course prefix'd to the Almanack of 1757, as the harangue
of a wise old man to the people attending an auction. The
bringing all these scatter'd counsels thus into a focus enabled
them to make greater impression. The piece, being uni-
versally approved, was copied in all the newspapers of the
Continent ; reprinted in Britain on a broad side, to be stuck
up in houses; two translations were made of it in French,
and great numbers bought by the clergy and gentry, to dis-
tribute gratis among their poor parishioners and tenants. In
Pennsylvania, as it discouraged useless expense in foreign
superfluities, some thought it had its share of influence in
producing that growing plenty of money which was observ-
able for several years after its publication.

I considered my newspaper, also, as another means of
communicating instruction, and in that view frequently re-
printed in it extracts from the Spectator, and other moral
writers; and sometimes publish'd little pieces of my own,
which had been first compos'd for reading in our Junto.
Of these are a Socratic dialogue, tending to prove that, what-
ever might be his parts and abilities, a vicious man could
not properly be called a man of sense; and a discourse on
self-denial, showing that virtue was not secure till its practice
became a habitude, and was free from the opposition of con-
trary inclinations. These may be found in the papers about
the beginning of I735-1

In the conduct of my newspaper, I carefully excluded all

1 June 23 and July 7, 1730. — ED.

344 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

libelling and personal abuse, which is of late years become
so disgraceful to our country. Whenever I was solicited
to insert any thing of that kind, and the writers pleaded, as
they generally did, the liberty of the press, and that a news-
paper was like a stage-coach, in which any one who would
pay had a right to a place, my answer was, that I would
print the piece separately if desired, and the author might
have as many copies as he pleased to distribute himself,
but that I would not take upon me to spread his detraction ;
and that, having contracted with my subscribers to furnish
them with what might be either useful or entertaining, I
could not fill their papers with private altercation, in which
they had no concern, without doing them manifest injustice.
Now, many of our printers make no scruple of gratifying
the malice of individuals by false accusations of the fairest
characters among ourselves, augmenting animosity even to
the producing of duels; and are, moreover, so indiscreet as
to print scurrilous reflections on the government of neigh-
boring states, and even on the conduct of our best national
allies, which may be attended with the most pernicious con-
sequences. These things I mention as a caution to young
printers, and that they may be encouraged not to pollute
their presses and disgrace their profession by such infamous
practices, but refuse steadily, as they may see by my example
that such a course of conduct will not, on the whole, be
injurious to their interests.

In 1733 I sent one of my journeymen to Charleston,
South Carolina, where a printer was wanting. I furnish'd
him with a press and letters, on an agreement of partnership,
by which I was to receive one-third of the profits of the busi-
ness, paying one-third of the expense. He was a man of

THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
learning, and honest but ignorant in matters of account;
and, tho' he sometimes made me remittances, I could get
no account from him, nor any satisfactory state of our part-
nership while he lived. On his decease, the business was
continued by his widow, who, being born and bred in Hol-
land, where, as I have been inform'd, the knowledge of
accounts makes a part of female education, she not only
sent me as clear a state as she could find of the transactions
past, but continued to account with the greatest regularity
and exactness every quarter afterwards, and managed the
business with such success, that she not only brought up
reputably a family of children, but, at the expiration of the
term, was able to purchase of me the printing-house, and
establish her son in it.

I mention this affair chiefly for the sake of recommending
that branch of education for our young females, as likely to
be of more use to them and their children, in case of widow-
hood, than either music or dancing, by preserving them from
losses by imposition of crafty men, and enabling them to con-
tinue, perhaps, a profitable mercantile house, with estab-
lish'd correspondence, till a son is grown up fit to undertake
and go on with it, to the lasting advantage and enriching
of the family.

About the year 1734 there arrived among us from Ireland
a young Presbyterian preacher, named Hemphill, who de-
livered with a good voice, and apparently extempore, most
excellent discourses, which drew together considerable num-
bers of different persuasions, who join'd in admiring them.
Among the rest, I became one of his constant hearers, his
sermons pleasing me, as they had little of the dogmatical
kind, but inculcated strongly the practice of virtue, or what

346 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

in the religious stile are called good works. Those, how-
ever, of our congregation, who considered themselves as
orthodox Presbyterians, disapprov'd his doctrine, and were
join'd by most of the old clergy, who arraign'd him of heter-
odoxy before the synod, in order to have him silenc'd. I
became his zealous partisan, and contributed all I could to
raise a party in his favour, and we combated for him a while
with some hopes of success. There was much scribbling
pro and con upon the occasion; and finding that, tho' an
elegant preacher, he was but a poor writer, I lent him my
pen and wrote for him two or three pamphlets, and one piece
in the Gazette of April, 1735. Those pamphlets, as is gener-
ally the case with controversial writings, tho' eagerly read at
the time, were soon out of vogue, and I question whether a
single copy of them now exists.1

During the contest an unlucky occurrence hurt his cause
exceedingly. One of our adversaries having heard him
preach a sermon that was much admired, thought he had
somewhere read the sermon before, or at least a part of it.
On search, he found that part quoted at length, in one of the
British Reviews, from a discourse of Dr Foster's.2 This
detection gave many of our party disgust, who accordingly
abandoned his cause, and occasion'd our more speedy dis-
comfiture in the synod. I stuck by him, however, as I rather

1 See " A List of Books written by, or relating to Benjamin Franklin," by
Paul Leicester Ford. 1889. p. 15.

2 Dr. James Foster (1697-1753) : —

" Let modest Foster, if he will excel
Ten metropolitans in preaching well."

— POPE (Epilogue to the Satires, 1, 132).

" Those who had not heard Farinelli sing and Foster preach were not quali-
fied to appear in genteel company," Hawkins. " History of Music." — ED.

THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY 347

approv'd his giving us good sermons compos'd by others,
than bad ones of his own manufacture, tho' the latter was
the practice of our common teachers. He afterward ac-
knowledg'd to me that none of those he preach'd were his
own; adding, that his memory was such as enabled him to
retain and repeat any sermon after one reading only. On
our defeat, he left us in search elsewhere of better fortune,
and I quitted the congregation, never joining it after, tho'
I continu'd many years my subscription for the support of
its ministers.

I had begun in 1733 to study languages; I soon made my-
self so much a master of the French as to be able to read the
books with ease. I then undertook the Italian. An ac-
quaintance, who was also learning it, us'd often to tempt
me to play chess with him. Finding this took up too much
of the time I had to spare for study, I at length refus'd to
play any more, unless on this condition, that the victor in
every game should have a right to impose a task, either in
parts of the grammar to be got by heart, or in translations,
etc., which tasks the vanquish'd was to perform upon honour,
before our next meeting. As we play'd pretty equally, we
thus beat one another into that language. I afterwards
with a little painstaking, acquir'd as much of the Spanish as
to read their books also.

I have already mention'd that I had only one year's in-
struction in a Latin school, and that when very young, after
which I neglected that language entirely. But, when I had
attained an acquaintance with the French, Italian, and
Spanish, I was surpriz'd to find, on looking over a Latin
Testament, that I understood so much more of that language
than I had imagined, which encouraged me to apply myself

348 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

again to the study of it, and I met with more success, as
those preceding languages had greatly smooth'd my way.

From these circumstances, I have thought that there is
some inconsistency in our common mode of teaching lan-
guages. We are told that it is proper to begin first with the
Latin, and, having acquir'd that, it will be more easy to
attain those modern languages which are deriv'd from it;
and yet we do not begin with the Greek, in order more easily
to acquire the Latin. It is true that, if you can clamber
and get to the top of a staircase without using the steps, you
will more easily gain them in descending; but certainly, if
you begin with the lowest you will with more ease ascend to
the top; and I would therefore offer it to the consideration
of those who superintend the education of our youth, whether,
since many of those who begin with the Latin quit the same
after spending some years without having made any great
proficiency, and what they have learnt becomes almost use-
less, so that their time has been lost, it would not have been
better to have begun with the French, proceeding to the
Italian, etc.; for, tho', after spending the same time, they
should quit the study of languages and never arrive at the
Latin, they would, however, have acquired another tongue
or two, that, being in modern use, might be serviceable to
them in common life.

After ten years' absence from Boston, and having become
easy in my circumstances, I made a journey thither to visit
my relations, which I could not sooner well afford. In re-
turning, I call'd at Newport to see my brother, then settled
there with his printing-house. Our former differences were
forgotten, and our meeting was very cordial and affectionate.
He was fast declining in his health, and requested of me that,

THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY 349

in case of his death, which he apprehended not far distant,
I would take home his son, then but ten years of age, and
bring him up to the printing business. This I accordingly
perform'd, sending him a few years to school before I took
him into the office. His mother carried on the business till
he was grown up, when I assisted him with an assortment
of new types, those of his father being in a manner worn out. /
Thus it was that I made my brother ample amends for the
service I had depriv'd him of by leaving him so early.

In 1736 I lost one of my sons, a fine boy of four years
old, by the small-pox, taken in the common way. I long
regretted bitterly, and still regret that I had not given it to
him by inoculation. This I mention for the sake of parents
who omit that operation, on the supposition that they should
never forgive themselves if a child died under it ; my example
showing that the regret may be the same either way, and that,
therefore, the safer should be chosen.

Our club, the Junto, was found so useful, and afforded
such satisfaction to the members, that several were desirous
of introducing their friends, which could not well be done
without exceeding what we had settled as a convenient
number, viz., twelve. We had from the beginning made it
a rule to keep our institution a secret, which was pretty well
observ'd ; the intention was to avoid applications of improper
persons for admittance, some of whom, perhaps, we might
find it difficult to refuse. I was one of those who were
against any addition to our number, but, instead of it, made
in writing a proposal, that every member separately should
endeavour to form a subordinate club, with the same rules
respecting queries, etc., and without informing them of the
connection with the Junto. The advantages proposed were,

350 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

the improvement of so many more young citizens by the
use of our institutions; our better acquaintance with the
general sentiments of the inhabitants on any occasion, as
the Junto member might propose what queries we should
desire, and was to report to the Junto what pass'd in his
separate club; the promotion of our particular interests in
business by more extensive recommendation, and the in-
crease of our influence in public affairs, and our power of
doing good by spreading thro' the several clubs the senti-
ments of the Junto.

The project was approv'd, and every member undertook to
form his club, but they did not all succeed. Five or six only
were compleated, which were called by different names, as
the Vine, the Union, the Band, etc. They were useful to
themselves, and afforded us a good deal of amusement,
information, and instruction, besides answering, in some
considerable degree, our views of influencing the public
opinion on particular occasions, of which I shall give some
instances in course of time as they happened.

My first promotion was my being chosen, in 1736, clerk
of the General Assembly. The choice was made that year
without opposition; but the year following, when I was
again propos'd (the choice, like that of the members, being
annual), a new member made a long speech against me,
in order to favour some other candidate. I was, however,
chosen, which was the more agreeable to me, as, besides the
pay for the immediate service as clerk, the place gave me a
better opportunity of keeping up an interest among the
members, which secur'd to me the business of printing the
votes, laws, paper money, and other occasional jobbs for
the public, that, on the whole, were very profitable.

THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY 351

I therefore did not like the opposition of this new member,
who was a gentleman of fortune and education, with talents
that were likely to give him, in time, great influence in the
House, which, indeed, afterwards happened. I did not,
however, aim at gaining his favour by paying any servile
respect to him, but, after some time, took this other method.
Having heard that he had in his library a certain very scarce
and curious book, I wrote a note to him, expressing my
desire of perusing that book, and requesting he would do
me the favour of lending it to me for a few days. He sent
it immediately, and I return'd it in about a week with another
note, expressing strongly my sense of the favour. When
we next met in the House, he spoke to me (which he had
never done before), and with great civility; and he ever
after manifested a readiness to serve me on all occasions, so
that we became great friends, and our friendship continued
to his death. This is another instance of the truth of an old
maxim I had learned, which says, "He that has once done
you a kindness will be more ready to do you another, than he
whom you yourself have obliged." And it shows how much
more profitable it is prudently to remove, than to resent,
return, and continue inimical proceedings.

In 1737, Colonel Spotswood, late governor of Virginia,
and then postmaster-general, being dissatisfied with the
conduct of his deputy at Philadelphia, respecting some
negligence in rendering, and inexactitude of his accounts,
took from him the commission and offered it to me. I
accepted it readily, and found it of great advantage ; for, tho'
the salary was small, it facilitated the correspondence that
improv'd my newspaper, increas'd the number demanded,
as well as the advertisements to be inserted, so that it came

352 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

to afford me a considerable income. My old competitor's
newspaper declin'd proportionably, and I was satisfy'd
without retaliating his refusal, while postmaster, to permit
my papers being carried by the riders. Thus he suffer'd
greatly from his neglect in due accounting; and I mention
it as a lesson to those young men who may be employ 'd in
managing affairs for others, that they should always render
accounts, and make remittances, with great clearness and
punctuality. The character of observing such a conduct is
the most powerful of all recommendations to new employ-
ments and increase of business.

I began now to turn my thoughts a little to public affairs,
beginning, however, with small matters. The city watch
was one of the first things that I conceiv'd to want regulation.
It was managed by the constables of the respective wards
in turn; the constable warned a number of housekeepers
to attend him for the night. Those who chose never to
attend, paid him six shillings a year to be excus'd, which
was suppos'd to be for hiring substitutes, but was, in reality,
much more than was necessary for that purpose, and made
the constableship a place of profit; and the constable, for
a little drink, often got such ragamuffins about him as a
watch, that respectable housekeepers did not choose to
mix with. Walking the rounds, too, was often neglected,
and most of the nights spent in tippling. I thereupon wrote
a paper to be read in Junto, representing these irregulari-
ties, but insisting more particularly on the inequality of this
six-shilling tax of the constables, respecting the circum-
stances of those who paid it, since a poor widow housekeeper,
all whose property to be guarded by the watch did not per-
haps exceed the value of fifty pounds, paid as much as the

THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY 353

wealthiest merchant, who had thousands of pounds' worth
of goods in his stores.

On the whole, I proposed as a more effectual watch, the
hiring of proper men to serve constantly in that business;
and as a more equitable way of supporting the charge, the
levying a tax that should be proportion'd to the property.
This idea, being approv'd by the Junto, was communicated
to the other clubs, but as arising in each of them ; and though
the plan was not immediately carried into execution, yet,
by preparing the minds of people for the change, it paved
the way for the law obtained a few years after, when the
members of our clubs were grown into more influence.

About this time I wrote a paper (first to be read in Junto,
but it was afterward publish'd) on the different accidents and
carelessnesses by which houses were set on fire, with cautions
against them, and means proposed of avoiding them. This
was much spoken of as a useful piece, and gave rise to a
project, which soon followed it, of forming a company for
the more ready extinguishing of fires, and mutual assistance
in removing and securing of goods when in danger. Asso-
ciates in this scheme were presently found, amounting to
thirty. Our articles of agreement oblig'd every member to
keep always in good order, and fit for use, a certain number
of leather buckets, with strong bags and baskets (for pack-
ing and transporting of goods), which were to be brought to
every fire; and we agreed to meet once a month and spend
a social evening together, in discoursing and communicating
such ideas as occurred to us upon the subject of fires, as
might be useful in our conduct on such occasions.

The utility of this institution soon appeared, and many
more desiring to be admitted than we thought convenient

VOL.1 — 2 A

354 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

for one company, they were advised to form another, which
was accordingly done; and this went on, one new company
being formed after another, till they became so numerous as
to include most of the inhabitants who were men of property ;
and now, at the time of my writing this, tho' upward of fifty
years since its establishment, that which I first formed,
called the Union Fire Company, still subsists and flourishes,1
tho' the first members are all deceas'd but myself and one,
who is older by a year than I am. The small fines that have
been paid by members for absence at the monthly meetings
have been apply'd to the purchase of fire-engines, ladders,
fire-hooks, and other useful implements for each company,
so that I question whether there is a city in the world better
provided with the means of putting a stop to beginning
conflagrations; and, in fact, since these institutions, the
city has never lost by fire more than one or two houses at a
time, and the flames have often been extinguished before
the house in which they began has been half consumed.

In 1739 arrived among us from Ireland the Reverend Mr.
Whitefield, who had made himself remarkable there as an
itinerant preacher. He was at first permitted to preach in
some of our churches; but the clergy, taking a dislike to
him, soon refus'd him their pulpits, and he was oblig'd to
preach in the fields. The multitudes of all sects and denomi-
nations that attended his sermons were enormous, and it
was matter of speculation to me, who was one of the number,
to observe the extraordinary influence of his oratory on his
hearers, and how much they admir'd and respected him,
notwithstanding his common abuse of them, by assuring
them they were naturally half beasts and half devils. It

1 It was formed December 7, 1 736. — ED.

THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY 355

was wonderful to see the change soon made in the manners
of our inhabitants. From being thoughtless or indifferent
about religion, it seem'd as if all the world were growing
religious, so that one could not walk thro' the town in an
evening without hearing psalms sung in different families
of every street.

And it being found inconvenient to assemble in the open
air, subject to its inclemencies, the building of a house to
meet in was no sooner propos'd, and persons appointed to
receive contributions, but sufficient sums were soon receiv'd
to procure the ground and erect the building, which was
one hundred feet long and seventy broad, about the size
of Westminster Hall; and the work was carried on with
such spirit as to be finished in a much shorter time than
could have been expected. Both house and ground were
vested in trustees, expressly for the use of any preacher of
any religious persuasion who might desire to say something
to the people at Philadelphia; the design in building not
being to accommodate any particular sect, but the inhab-
itants in general; so that even if the Mufti of Constanti-
nople were to send a missionary to preach Mohammedanism
to us, he would find a pulpit at his service.

Mr. Whitefield, in leaving us, went preaching all the way
thro' the colonies to Georgia. The settlement of that prov-
ince had lately been begun, but, instead of being made with
hardy, industrious husbandmen, accustomed to labour, the
only people fit for such an enterprise, it was with families
of broken shop-keepers and other insolvent debtors, many
of indolent and idle habits, taken out of the jails, who, being
set down in the woods, unqualified for clearing land, and
unable to endure the hardships of a new settlement, perished

356 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

in numbers, leaving many helpless children unprovided
for. The sight of their miserable situation inspir'd the
benevolent heart of Mr. Whitefield with the idea of building
an Orphan House there, in which they might be supported
and educated. Returning northward, he preach'd up this
charity, and made large collections, for his eloquence had a
wonderful power over the hearts and purses of his hearers,
of which I myself was an instance.

I did not disapprove of the design, but, as Georgia was
then destitute of materials and workmen, and it was pro-
posed to send them from Philadelphia at a great expense, I
thought it would have been better to have built the house
here, and brought the children to it. This I ad vis 'd; but
he was resolute in his first project, rejected my counsel, and
I therefore refus'd to contribute. I happened soon after to
attend one of his sermons, in the course of which I perceived
he intended to finish with a collection, and I silently resolved
he should get nothing from me. I had in my pocket a hand-
ful of copper money, three or four silver dollars, and five
pistoles in gold. As he proceeded I began to soften, and
concluded to give the coppers. Another stroke of his oratory
made me asham'd of that, and determin'd me to give the
silver; and he finish'd so admirably, that I empty'd my
pocket wholly into the collector's dish, gold and all. At
this sermon there was also one of our club, who, being of
my sentiments respecting the building in Georgia, and sus-
pecting a collection might be intended, had, by precaution,
emptied his pockets before he came from home. Towards
the conclusion of the discourse, however, he felt a strong
desire to give, and apply'd to a neighbour, who stood near
him, to borrow some money for the purpose. The applica-

THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY 357

tion was unfortunately [made] to perhaps the only man in
the company who had the firmness not to be affected by the
preacher. His answer was, "At any other time, Friend
Hopkinson, I would lend to thee freely; but not now, for thee
seems to be out of thy right senses."

Some of Mr. Whitefield's enemies affected to suppose
that he would apply these collections to his own private
emolument; but I, who was intimately acquainted with
him (being employed in printing his Sermons and Journals,
etc.), never had the least suspicion of his integrity, but am
to this day decidedly of opinion that he was in all his con-
duct a perfectly honest man; and methinks my testimony
in his favour ought to have the more weight, as we had no
religious connection. He us'd, indeed, sometimes to pray
for my conversion, but never had the satisfaction of believing
that his prayers were heard. Ours was a mere civil friend-
ship, sincere on both sides, and lasted to his death.

The following instance will show something of the terms
on which we stood. Upon one of his arrivals from England
at Boston, he wrote to me that he should come soon to Phila-
delphia, but knew not where he could lodge when there, as
he understood his old friend and host, Mr. Benezet 1 was
removed to Germantown. My answer was, "You know
my house; if you can make shift with its scanty accommo-
dations, you will be most heartily welcome." He reply'd,
that if I made that kind offer for Christ's sake, I should not
miss of a reward. And I returned, "Don't let me be mis-
taken; it was not for Christ's sake, but for your sake." One

1 Anthony Benezet (1713-1784), devoted himself in Philadelphia to the
abolition of the slave trade and the emancipation and education of the
coloured population. — ED.

358 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

of our common acquaintance jocosely remark'd, that, know-
ing it to be the custom of the saints, when they received
any favour, to shift the burden of the obligation from off
their own shoulders, and place it in heaven, I had contriv'd
to fix it on earth.

The last time I saw Mr. Whitefield was hi London, when
he consulted me about his Orphan House concern, and his
purpose of appropriating it to the establishment of a college.

He had a loud and clear voice, and articulated his words
and sentences so perfectly, that he might be heard and under-
stood at a great distance, especially as his auditories, however
numerous, observ'd the most exact silence. He preach'd
one evening from the top of the Court-house steps, which
are in the middle of Market-street, and on the west side of
Second-street, which crosses it at right angles. Both streets
were fill'd with his hearers to a considerable distance. Being
among the hindmost in Market-street, I had the curiosity
to learn how far he could be heard, by retiring backwards
down the street towards the river; and I found his voice
distinct till I came near Front-street, when some noise in
that street obscur'd it. Imagining then a semicircle, of
which my distance should be the radius, and that it were
fill'd with auditors, to each of whom I allow'd two square
feet, I computed that he might well be heard by more than
thirty thousand. This reconcil'd me to the newspaper
accounts of his having preach'd to twenty-five thousand
people in the fields, and to the antient histories of generals
haranguing whole armies, of which I had sometimes doubted.

By hearing him often, I came to distinguish easily between
sermons newly compos'd, and those which he had often
preach'd in the course of his travels. His delivery of the

THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY 359

latter was so improv'd by frequent repetitions that every
accent, every emphasis, every modulation of voice, was so
perfectly well turn'd and well plac'd, that, without being
interested in the subject, one could not help being pleas'd
with the discourse ; a pleasure of much the same kind with
that receiv'd from an excellent piece of musick. This is
an advantage itinerant preachers have over those who are
stationary, as the latter can not well improve their delivery
of a sermon by so many rehearsals.

His writing and printing from time to time gave great
advantage to his enemies ; unguarded expressions, and even
erroneous opinions, delivered in preaching, might have been
afterwards explain'd or qualifi'd by supposing others that
might have accompani'd them, or they might have been
deny'd ; but litera scripta manet. Critics attack'd his writings
violently, and with so much appearance of reason as to
diminish the number of his votaries and prevent their en-
crease ; so that I am of opinion if he had never written any
thing, he would have left behind him a much more numerous
and important sect, and his reputation might in that case
have been still growing, even after his death, as there being
nothing of his writing on which to found a censure and give
him a lower character, his proselytes would be left at lib-
erty to feign for him as great a variety of excellences as
their enthusiastic admiration might wish him to have pos-
sessed.

My business was now continually augmenting, and my
circumstances growing daily easier, my newspaper having
become very profitable, as being for a time almost the only
one in this and the neighbouring provinces. I experienced,
too, the truth of the observation, "that after getting the first

360 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

hundred pound, it is more easy to get the second," money
itself being of a prolific nature.

The partnership at Carolina having succeeded, I was
encourag'd to engage in others, and to promote several of
my workmen, who had behaved well, by establishing them
with printing-houses in different colonies, on the same terms
with that in Carolina. Most of them did well, being enabled
at the end of our term, six years, to purchase the types of
me and go on working for themselves, by which means sev-
eral families were raised. Partnerships often finish in quarrels ;
but I was happy in this, that mine were all carried on and
ended amicably, owing, I think, a good deal to the precaution
of having very explicitly settled, in our articles, every thing
to be done by or expected from each partner, so that there
was nothing to dispute, which precaution I would therefore
recommend to all who enter into partnerships ; for, whatever
esteem partners may have for, and confidence in each other
at the time of the contract, little jealousies and disgusts may
arise, with ideas of inequality in the care and burden of the
business, etc., which are attended often with breach of friend-
ship and of the connection, perhaps with lawsuits and other
disagreeable consequences.

I had, on the whole, abundant reason to be satisfied with
my being established in Pennsylvania. There were, how-
evei, two things that I regretted, there being no provision
for defense, nor for a compleat education of youth; no
militia, nor any college. I therefore, in 1743, drew up a
proposal for establishing an academy; and at that time,
thinking the Reverend Mr. Peters, who was out of employ,
a fit person to superintend such an institution, I communi-
cated the project to him; but he, having more profitable

THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY 361

views in the service of the proprietaries, which succeeded,
declin'd the undertaking; and, not knowing another at that
time suitable for such a trust, I let the scheme lie a while
dormant. I succeeded better the next year, 1744, in propos-
ing and establishing a Philosophical Society. The paper
I wrote for that purpose will be found among my writings,
when collected.1

With respect to defense, Spain having been several years
at war against Great Britain, and being at length join'd by
France, which brought us into great danger ; and the laboured
and long-continued endeavour of our governor, Thomas,
to prevail with our Quaker Assembly to pass a militia law,
and make other provisions for the security of the province,
having proved abortive, I determined to try what might be
done by a voluntary association of the people. To promote
this, I first wrote and published a pamphlet, entitled PLAIN
TRUTH, in which I stated our defenceless situation in strong
lights, with the necessity of union and discipline for our
defense, and promis'd to propose in a few days an association,
to be generally signed for that purpose. The pamphlet
had a sudden and surprising effect. I was call'd upon for
the instrument of association, and having settled the draft
of it with a few friends, I appointed a meeting of the citizens
in the large building before mentioned. The house was
pretty full ; I had prepared a number of printed copies, and
provided pens and ink dispers'd all over the room. I
harangued them a little on the subject, read the paper, and
explained it, and then distributed the copies, which were
eagerly signed, not the least objection being made.

1 See " A Proposal for Promoting Useful Knowledge among the British
Plantations in America," May 14, 1743. — ED.

362 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

When the company separated, and the papers were col-
lected, we found above twelve hundred hands; and, other
copies being dispersed in the country, the subscribers
amounted at length to upward of ten thousand. These
all furnished themselves as soon as they could with arms,
formed themselves into companies and regiments, chose
their own officers, and met every week to be instructed in
the manual exercise, and other parts of military discipline.
The women, by subscriptions among themselves, provided
silk colours, which they presented to the companies, painted
with different devices and mottos, which I supplied.

The officers of the companies composing the Philadelphia
regiment, being met, chose me for their colonel; but, con-
ceiving myself unfit, I declin'd that station, and recom-
mended Mr. Lawrence, a fine person, and man of influence,
who was accordingly appointed. I then propos'd a lottery
to defray the expense of building a battery below the town,
and furnishing it with cannon. It filled expeditiously, and
the battery was soon erected, the merlons being fram'd of
logs and fill'd with earth. We bought some old cannon
from Boston, but, these not being sufficient, we wrote to
England for more, soliciting, at the same tune, our proprie-
taries for some assistance, tho' without much expectation of
obtaining it.

Meanwhile, Colonel Lawrence, William Allen, Abram
Taylor, Esqr., and myself were sent to New York by the
associators, commission'd to borrow some cannon of Gov-
ernor Clinton.1 He at first refus'd us peremptorily; but
at dinner with his council, where there was great drinking

1 George Clinton was the youngest son of Francis, sixth Earl of Lincoln.
He was colonial governor, 1741-1753. He died July 10, 1761. — ED.

THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY 363

of Madeira wine, as the custom of that place then was, he
softened by degrees, and said he would lend. us six. After
a few more bumpers he advanc'd to ten; and at length he
very good-naturedly conceded eighteen. They were fine
cannon, eighteen-pounders, with their carriages, which we
soon transported and mounted on our battery, where the
associators kept a nightly guard while the war lasted, and
among the rest I regularly took my turn of duty there as a
common soldier.

My activity in these operations was agreeable to the gov-
ernor and council; they took me into confidence, and I was
consulted by them in every measure wherein their concur-
rence was thought useful to the association. Calling in the
aid of religion, I propos'd to them the proclaiming a fast, to
promote reformation, and implore the blessing of Heaven on
our undertaking. They embrac'd the motion; but, as it
was the first fast ever thought of in the province, the secre-
tary had no precedent from which to draw the proclamation.
My education in New England, where a fast is proclaimed
every year, was here of some advantage: I drew it in the
accustomed stile, it was translated into German, printed
in both languages, and divulg'd thro' the province. This
gave the clergy of the different sects an opportunity of in-
fluencing their congregations to join in the association, and
it would probably have been general among all but Quakers
if the peace had not soon interven'd.

It was thought by some of my friends that, by my activity
in these affairs, I should offend that sect, and thereby lose
my interest in the Assembly of the province, where they
formed a great majority. A young gentleman who had
likewise some friends in the House, and wished to succeed

364 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

me as their clerk, acquainted me that it was decided to dis-
place me at the next election ; and he, therefore, in good will,
advis'd me to resign, as more consistent with my honour
than being turn'd out. My answer to him was, that I had
read or heard of some public man who made it a rule never
to ask for an office, and never to refuse one when offer'd to
him. "I approve," says I, "of his rule, and will practice it
with a small addition; I shall never ask, never refuse, nor
ever resign an office. If they will have my office of clerk
to dispose of to another, they shall take it from me. I will
not, by giving it up, lose my right of some time or other
making reprisals on my adversaries." I heard, however,
no more of this ; I was chosen again unanimously as usual at
the next election. Possibly, as they dislik'd my late intimacy
with the members of council, who had join'd the governors
in all the disputes about military preparations, with which
the House had long been harass'd, they might have been
pleas'd if I would voluntarily have left them; but they did
not care to displace me on account merely of my zeal for the
association, and they could not well give another reason.

Indeed I had some cause to believe that the defense of the
country was not disagreeable to any of them, provided they
were not requir'd to assist in it. And I found that a much
greater number of them than I could have imagined, tho'
against offensive war, were clearly for the defensive. Many
pamphlets pro and con were publish'd on the subject, and
some by good Quakers, in favour of defense, which I believe
convinc'd most of their younger people.

A transaction in our fire company gave me some insight
into their prevailing sentiments. It had been propos'd that
we should encourage the scheme for building a battery by

THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY 365

laying out the present stock, then about sixty pounds, in
tickets of the lottery. By our rules, no money could be
dispos'd of till the next meeting after the proposal. The
company consisted of thirty members, of which twenty-two
were Quakers, and eight only of other persuasions. We
eight punctually attended the meeting ; but, tho' we thought
that some of the Quakers would join us, we were by no means
sure of a majority. Only one Quaker, Mr. James Morris,
appear'd to oppose the measure. He expressed much sor-
row that it had ever been propos'd, as he said Friends were
all against it, and it would create such discord as might
break up the company. We told him that we saw no reason
for that ; we were the minority, and if Friends were against
the measure, and outvoted us, we must and should, agree-
ably to the usage of all societies, submit. When the hour
for business arriv'd it was mov'd to put the vote; he allow'd
we might then do it by the rules, but, as he could assure us
that a number of members intended to be present for the
purpose of opposing it, it would be but candid to allow a
little time for their appearing.

While we were disputing this, a waiter came to tell me
two gentlemen below desir'd to speak with me. I went down,
and found they were two of our Quaker members. They told
me there were eight of them assembled at a tavern just by ;
that they were determin'd to come and vote with us if there
should be occasion, which they hop'd would not be the case,
and desir'd we would not call for their assistance if we could
do without it, as their voting for such a measure might em-
broil them with their elders and friends. Being thus secure
of a majority, I went up, and after a little seeming hesitation,
agreed to a delay of another hour. This Mr. Morris allow'd

366 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

to be extreamly fair. Not one of his opposing friends ap-
pear'd, at which he express'd great surprize; and, at the
expiration of the hour, we carry'd the resolution eight to one ;
and as, of the twenty-two Quakers, eight were ready to vote
with us, and thirteen, by their absence, manifested that they
were not inclin'd to oppose the measure, I afterward esti-
mated the proportion of Quakers sincerely against defense
as one to twenty-one only; for these were all regular mem-
bers of that society, and in good reputation among them,
and had due notice of what was propos'd at that meeting.

The honorable and learned Mr. Logan, who had always
been of that sect, was one who wrote an address to them,
declaring his approbation of defensive war, and supporting
his opinion by many strong arguments. He put into my
hands sixty pounds to be laid out in lottery tickets for the
battery, with directions to apply what prizes might be drawn
wholly to that service. He told me the following anecdote
of his old master, William Penn, respecting defense. He
came over from England, when a young man, with that
proprietary, and as his secretary. It was war-time, and
their ship was chas'd by an armed vessel, suppos'd to be an
enemy. Their captain prepar'd for defense; but told
William Penn, and his company of Quakers, that he did not
expect their assistance, and they might retire into the cabin,
which they did, except James Logan,1 who chose to stay
upon deck, and was quart er'd to a gun. The suppos'd
enemy prov'd a friend, so there was no fighting; but when

1 James Logan (1674-1751) came to America with William Penn in 1699,
and was the business agent for the Penn family. He bequeathed his valuable
library, preserved at his country seat, " Stenton," to the city of Philadelphia.
— ED.

THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY 367

the secretary went down to communicate the intelligence,
William Penn rebuk'd him severely for staying upon deck,
and undertaking to assist in defending the vessel, contrary
to the principles of Friends, especially as it had not been
required by the captain. This reproof, being before all the
company, piqu'd the secretary, who answer'd, "/ being
thy servant, why did thee not order me to come down? But
thee was witting enough that I should stay and help to fight
the ship when thee thought there was danger"

My being many years in the Assembly, the majority of
which were constantly Quakers, gave me frequent oppor-
tunities of seeing the embarrassment given them by their
principle against war, whenever application was made to
them, by order of the crown, to grant aids for military pur-
poses. They were unwilling to offend government, on the
one hand, by a direct refusal; and their friends, the body of
the Quakers, on the other, by a compliance contrary to their
principles; hence a variety of evasions to avoid complying,
and modes of disguising the compliance when it became
unavoidable. The common mode at last was, to grant
money under the phrase of its being "for the king's use"
and never to inquire how it was applied.

But, if the demand was not directly from the crown, that
phrase was found not so proper, and some other was to be
invented. As, when powder was wanting (I think it was for
the garrison at Louisburg), and the government of New
England solicited a grant of some from Pennsilvania, which
was much urg'd on the House by Governor Thomas, they
could not grant money to buy powder, because that was an
ingredient of war; but they voted an aid to New England
of three thousand pounds, to be put into the hands of the

368 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

governor, and appropriated it for the purchasing of bread,
flour, wheat, or other grain. Some of the council, desirous
of giving the House still further embarrassment, advis'd the
governor not to accept provision, as not being the thing he
had demanded; but he reply 'd, "I shall take the money,
for I understand very well their meaning; other grain is
gunpowder," which he accordingly bought, and they never
objected to it.1

It was in allusion to this fact that, when in our fire com-
pany we feared the success of our proposal in favour of the
lottery, and I had said to my friend Mr. Syng, one of our
members, "If we fail, let us move the purchase of a fire-
engine with the money; the Quakers can have no objection
to that ; and then, if you nominate me and I you as a com-
mittee for that purpose, we will buy a great gun, which is
certainly a fire-engine." "I see," says he, "you have
improv'd by being so long in the Assembly; your equivocal
project would be just a match for their wheat or other grain."

These embarrassments that the Quakers suffer'd from
having establish'd and published it as one of their principles
that no kind of war was lawful, and which, being once
published, they could not afterwards, however they might
change their minds, easily get rid of, reminds me of what I
think a more prudent conduct in another sect among us,
that of the Dunkers. I was acquainted with one of its
founders, Michael Welfare, soon after it appear'd. He
complain'd to me that they were grievously calumniated by
the zealots of other persuasions, and charg'd with abomi-
nable principles and practices, to which they were utter
strangers. I told him this had always been the case with

1 See the votes. — Marg. note.

THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY 369

new sects, and that, to put a stop to such abuse, I imagin'd
it might be well to publish the articles of their belief, and the
rules of their discipline. He said that it had been propos'd
among them, but not agreed to, for this reason: "When
we were first drawn together as a society," says he, "it had
pleased God to enlighten our minds so far as to see that some
doctrines, which we once esteemed truths, were errors; and
that others, which we had esteemed errors, were real truths.
From time to time He has been pleased to afford us farther
light, and our principles have been improving, and our
errors diminishing. Now we are not sure that we are ar-
rived at the end of this progression, and at the perfection of
spiritual or theological knowledge; and we fear that, if we
should once print our confession of faith, we should feel
ourselves as if bound and confin'd by it, and perhaps be
unwilling to receive further improvement, and our succes-
sors still more so, as conceiving what we their elders and
founders had done, to be something sacred, never to be
departed from."

This modesty in a sect is perhaps a singular instance in
the history of mankind, every other sect supposing itself in
possession of all truth, and that those who differ are so far
in the wrong; like a man traveling in foggy weather, those
at some distance before him on the road he sees wrapped up
in the fog, as well as those behind him, and also the people
in the fields on each side, but near him all appears clear,
tho' in truth he is as much in the fog as any of them. To
avoid this kind of embarrassment, the Quakers have of late
years been gradually declining the public service in the As-
sembly and in the magistracy, choosing rather to quit their
power than their principle.

VOL. I — 2 B

370 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

In order of time, I should have mentioned before, that
having, in 1742, invented an open stove for the better warm-
ing of rooms, and at the same time saving fuel, as the fresh
air admitted was warmed in entering, I made a present of
the model to Mr. Robert Grace, one of my early friends,
who, having an iron-furnace,1 found the casting of the plates
for these stoves a profitable thing, as they were growing in
demand. To promote that demand, I wrote and published
a pamphlet, entitled "An Account of the new-invented
Pennsylvania Fireplaces; wherein their Construction and
Manner of Operation is particularly explained; their Ad-
vantages above every other Method of warming Rooms de-
monstrated; and all Objections that have been raised against
the Use of them answered and obviated," etc. This pam-
phlet had a good effect. Gov'r. Thomas was so pleas'd with
the construction of this stove, as described in it, that he
offered to give me a patent for the sole vending of them for
a term of years; but I declin'd it from a principle which
has ever weighed with me on such occasions, viz., That, as
we enjoy great advantages from the inventions of others, we
should be glad of an opportunity to serve others by any inven-
tion of ours; and this we should do freely and generously.

An ironmonger in London however, assuming a good
deal of my pamphlet, and working it up into his own, and
making some small changes in the machine, which rather
hurt its operation, got a patent for it there, and made, as I
was told, a little fortune by it. And this is not the only in-
stance of patents taken out for my inventions by others, tho*
not always with the same success, which I never contested,
as having no desire of profiting by patents myself, and

1 Warwick Furnace, Chester County, Pennsylvania. — ED.

THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
hating disputes. The use of these fireplaces in very many
houses, both of this and the neighbouring colonies, has been,
and is, a great saving of wood to the inhabitants.

Peace being concluded, and the association business
therefore at an end, I turn'd my thoughts again to the affair
of establishing an academy. The first step I took was to
associate in the design a number of active friends, of whom
the Junto furnished a good part ; the next was to write and
publish a pamphlet, entitled Proposals Relating to the Edu-
cation of Youth in Pennsylvania. This I distributed among
the principal inhabitants gratis ; and as soon as I could sup-
pose their minds a little prepared by the perusal of it, I set
on foot a subscription for opening and supporting an academy ;
it was to be paid in quotas yearly for five years ; by so divid-
ing it, I judg'd the subscription might be larger, and I be-
lieve it was so, amounting to no less, if I remember right,
than five thousand pounds.

In the introduction to these proposals, I stated their pub-
lication, not as an act of mine, but of some public k- spirited
gentlemen, avoiding as much as I could, according to my
usual rule, the presenting myself to the publick as the author
of any scheme for their benefit.

The subscribers, to carry the project into immediate exe-
cution, chose out of their number twenty-four trustees, and
appointed Mr. Francis,1 then attorney-general, and myself to
draw up constitutions for the government of the academy;
which being done and signed, a house was hired, masters

1 Tench Francis, uncle of Sir Philip Francis, emigrated from England to
Maryland, and became attorney for Lord Baltimore. He removed to Phila-
delphia, and was attorney-general of Pennsylvania from 1741 to 1755. He
died in Philadelphia August 16, 1758. — ED.

372 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

engag'd, and the schools opened, I think, in the same year,
1749.

The scholars increasing fast, the house was soon found too
small, and we were looking out for a piece of ground, properly
situated, with intention to build, when Providence threw into
our way a large house ready built, which, with a few altera-
tions, might well serve our purpose. This was the building
before mentioned, erected by the hearers of Mr. Whitefield,
and was obtained for us in the following manner.

It is to be noted that the contributions to this building
being made by people of different sects, care was taken in
the nomination of trustees, in whom the building and ground
was to be vested, that a predominancy should not be given to
any sect, lest in time that predominancy might be a means
of appropriating the whole to the use of such sect, contrary
to the original intention. It was therefore that one of each
sect was appointed, viz., one Church-of- England man, one
Presbyterian, one Baptist, one Moravian, etc., those, in case
of vacancy by death, were to fill it by election from among
the contributors. The Moravian happen'd not to please
his colleagues, and on his death they resolved to have no
other of that sect. The difficulty then was, how to avoid
having two of some other sect, by means of the new choice.

Several persons were named, and for that reason not agreed
to. At length one mention'd me, with the observation that
I was merely an honest man, and of no sect at all, which
prevail'd with them to chuse me. The enthusiasm which
existed when the house was built had long since abated, and
its trustees had not been able to procure fresh contributions
for paying the ground-rent, and discharging some other
debts the building had occasion'd, which embarrass'd them

THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
greatly. Being now a member of both setts of trustees,
that for the building and that for the Academy, I had a good
opportunity of negotiating with both, and brought them
finally to an agreement, by which the trustees for the building
were to cede it to those of the academy, the latter undertak-
ing to discharge the debt, to keep for ever open in the build-
ing a large hall for occasional preachers, according to the
original intention, and maintain a free-school for the instruc-
tion of poor children. Writings were accordingly drawn,
and on paying the debts the trustees of the academy were
put in possession of the premises ; and by dividing the great
and lofty hall into stories, and different rooms above and
below for the several schools, and purchasing some additional
ground, the whole was soon made fit for our purpose, and
the scholars remov'd into the building. The care and
trouble of agreeing with the workmen, purchasing materials,
and superintending the work, fell upon me; and I went
thro' it the more cheerfully, as it did not then interfere with
my private business, having the year before taken a very
able, industrious, and honest partner, Mr. David Hall, with
whose character I was well acquainted, as he had work'd
for me four years. He took off my hands all care of the
printing-office, paying me punctually my share of the profits.
The partnership continued eighteen years, successfully for
us both.

The trustees of the academy, after a while, were incor-
porated by a charter from the governor; their funds were
increas'd by contributions in Britain and grants of land
from the proprietaries, to which the Assembly has since
made considerable addition; and thus was established the
present University of Philadelphia. I have been continued

374 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

one of its trustees from the beginning, now near forty years,
and have had the very great pleasure of seeing a number of
the youth who have receiv'd their education in it, distin-
guish'd by their improv'd abilities, serviceable in public
stations, and ornaments to their country.

When I disengaged myself, as above mentioned, from
private business, I flatter'd myself that, by the sufficient tho*
moderate fortune I had acquir'd, I had secured leisure during
the rest of my life for philosophical studies and amusements.
I purchased all Dr. Spence's apparatus, who had come from
England to lecture here, and I proceeded in my electrical
experiments with great alacrity; but the publick, now con-
sidering me as a man of leisure, laid hold of me for their
purposes, every part of our civil government, and almost at
the same time, imposing some duty upon me. The governor
put me into the commission of the peace ; the corporation of
the city chose me of the common council, and soon after an
alderman; and the citizens at large chose me a burgess to
represent them in Assembly. This latter station was the
more agreeable to me, as I was at length tired with sitting
there to hear debates, in which, as clerk, I could take no part,
and which were often so unentertaining that I was induc'd
to amuse myself with making magic squares or circles, or
any thing to avoid weariness ; and I conceiv'd my becoming
a member would enlarge my power of doing good. I would
not, however, insinuate that my ambition was not flatter'd
by all these promotions; it certainly was; for, considering
my low beginning, they were great things to me; and they
were still more pleasing, as being so many spontaneous
testimonies of the public good opinion, and by me entirely
unsolicited.

THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY 375

The office of justice of the peace I try'd a little, by attend-
ing a few courts, and sitting on the bench to hear causes ; but
finding that more knowledge of the common law than I pos-
sess'd was necessary to act in that station with credit, I grad-
ually withdrew from it, excusing myself by my being oblig'd
to attend the higher duties of a legislator in the Assembly.
My election to this trust was repeated every year for ten
years, without my ever asking any elector for his vote, or
signifying, either directly or indirectly, any desire of being
chosen. On taking my seat in the House, my son was
appointed their clerk.

The year following, a treaty being to be held with the
Indians at Carlisle, the governor sent a message to the
House, proposing that they should nominate some of their
members, to be join'd with some members of council, as
commissioners for that purpose.1 The House named the
speaker (Mr.Norris) and myself; and, being commission'd,
we went to Carlisle, and met the Indians accordingly.

As those people are extreamly apt to get drunk, and, when
so, are very quarrelsome and disorderly, we strictly forbad
the selling any liquor to them; and when they complain 'd
of this restriction, we told them that if they would continue
sober during the treaty, we would give them plenty of rum
when business was over. They promis'd this, and they
kept their promise, because they could get no liquor, and
the treaty was conducted very orderly, and concluded to
mutual satisfaction. They then claim'd and receiv'd the
rum; this was in the afternoon: they were near one hun-
dred men, women, and children, and were lodg'd in tem-
porary cabins, built in the form of a square, just without the

1 See the votes to have this more correctly. — Marg. note.

376 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

town. In the evening, hearing a great noise among them,
the commissioners walk'd out to see what was the matter.
We found they had made a great bonfire in the middle of
the square; they were all drunk, men and women, quarrel-
ing and fighting. Their dark-colour'd bodies, half naked,
seen only by the gloomy light of the bonfire, running after
and beating one another with firebrands, accompanied by
their horrid yellings, form'd a scene the most resembling
our ideas of hell that could well be imagin'd; there was no
appeasing the tumult, and we retired to our lodging. At
midnight a number of them came thundering at our door,
demanding more rum, of which we took no notice.

The next day, sensible they had misbehav'd in giving us
that disturbance, they sent three of their old counselors to
make their apology. The orator acknowledg'd the fault, but
laid it upon the rum; and then endeavoured to excuse the
rum by saying, " The Great Spirit, who made all things, made
every thing for some use, and whatever use he designed any
thing for, that use it should always be put to. Now, when he
made rum, he said, 'Let this be for the Indians to get drunk
with,' and it must be so." And, indeed, if it be the design of
Providence to extirpate these savages in order to make room
for cultivators of the earth, it seems not improbable that rum
may be the appointed means. It has already annihilated all
the tribes who formerly inhabited the sea-coast.

In 1751, Dr. Thomas Bond, a particular friend of mine,
conceived the idea of establishing a hospital hi Philadelphia
(a very beneficent design, which has been ascrib'd to me,
but was originally his), for the reception and cure of poor
sick persons, whether inhabitants of the province or strangers.
He was zealous and active in endeavouring to procure sub-

THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY 377

scriptions for it, but the proposal being a novelty in America,
and at first not well understood, he met with but small suc-
cess.

At length he came to me with the compliment that he found
there was no such thing as carrying a public-spirited project
through without my being concern'd in it. "For," says he,
"I am often ask'd by those to whom I propose subscribing,
Have you consulted Franklin upon this business ? And what
does he think of it ? And when I tell them that I have not
(supposing it rather out of your line), they do not subscribe,
but say they will consider of it." I enquired into the nature
and probable utility of his scheme, and receiving from him
a very satisfactory explanation, I not only subscrib'd to it
myself, but engag'd heartily in the design of procuring sub-
scriptions from others. Previously, however, to the solicita-
tion, I endeavoured to prepare the minds of the people by
writing on the subject in the newspapers, which was my
usual custom in such cases, but which he had omitted.

The subscriptions afterwards were more free and generous ;
but, beginning to flag, I saw they would be insufficient with-
out some assistance from the Assembly, and therefore pro-
pos'd to petition for it, which was done. The country
members did not at first relish the project; they objected
that it could only be serviceable to the city, and therefore the
citizens alone should be at the expense of it ; and they doubted
whether the citizens themselves generally approv'd of it.
My allegation on the contrary, that it met with such appro-
bation as to leave no doubt of our being able to raise two
thousand pounds by voluntary donations, they considered as
a most extravagant supposition, and utterly impossible.

On this I form'd my plan ; and, asking leave to bring in

378 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

a bill for incorporating the contributors according to the
prayer of their petition, and granting them a blank sum of
money, which leave was obtained chiefly on the considera-
tion that the House could throw the bill out if they did not
like it, I drew it so as to make the important clause a condi-
tional one, viz., "And be it enacted, by the authority aforesaid,
that when the said contributors shall have met and chosen
their managers and treasurer, and shall have raised by their
contributions a capital stock of value (the yearly inter-
est of which is to be applied to the accommodating of the
sick poor in the said hospital, free of charge for diet, attend-
ance, advice, and medicines), and shall make the same appear
to the satisfaction of the speaker of the Assembly for the time
being, that then it shall and may be lawful for the said speaker,
and he is hereby required, to sign an order on the provincial
treasurer for the payment of two thousand pounds, in two
yearly payments, to the treasurer of the said hospital, to be
applied to the founding, building, and finishing of the same."
This condition carried the bill through; for the members,
who had oppos'd the grant, and now conceiv'd they might
have the credit of being charitable without the expense, agreed
to its passage; and then, in soliciting subscriptions among
the people, we urg'd the conditional promise of the law as
an additional motive to give, since every man's donation
would be doubled ; thus the clause work'd both ways. The
subscriptions accordingly soon exceeded the requisite sum,
and we claim'd and receiv'd the public gift, which enabled
us to carry the design into execution. A convenient and
handsome building was soon erected; the institution has by
constant experience been found useful, and flourishes to this
day ; and I do not remember any of my political manoeuvres,

THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY 379

the success of which gave me at the time more pleasure, or
wherein, after thinking of it, I more easily excus'd myself
for having made some use of cunning.

It was about this time that another projector, the Rev.
Gilbert Tennent,1 came to me with a request that I would
assist him in procuring a subscription for erecting a new
meeting-house. It was to be for the use of a congregation
he had gathered among the Presbyterians, who were origi-
nally disciples of Mr. Whitefield. Unwilling to make myself
disagreeable to my fellow-citizens by too frequently solicit-
ing their contributions, I absolutely refus'd. He then desired
I would furnish him with a list of the names of persons I
knew by experience to be generous and public-spirited. I
thought it would be unbecoming in me, after their kind com-
pliance with my solicitations, to mark them out to be worried
by other beggars, and therefore refus'd also to give such a
list. He then desir'd I would at least give him my advice.
"That I will readily do," said I; "and, in the first place, I
advise you to apply to all those whom you know will give
something; next, to those whom you are uncertain whether
they will give anything or not, and show them the list of those
who have given; and, lastly, do not neglect those who you
are sure will give nothing, for in some of them you may be
mistaken." He laugh'd and thank'd me, and said he would
take my advice. He did so, for he ask'd of everybody, and
he obtain'd a much larger sum than he expected, with which
he erected the capacious and very elegant meeting-house that
stands in Arch-street.

1 Gilbert Tennent (1703-1764) came to America with his father Rev.
William Tennent and taught for a time in the " Log College," from which
sprang the College of New Jersey. — ED.

380 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

Our city, tho' laid out with a beautifuil regularity, the
streets large, strait, and crossing each other at right angles,
had the disgrace of suffering those streets to remain long
unpav'd, and in wet weather the wheels of heavy carriages
plough'd them into a quagmire, so that it was difficult to
cross them; and in dry weather the dust was offensive. I
had liv'd near what was call'd the Jersey Market, and saw
with pain the inhabitants wading in mud while purchasing
their provisions. A strip of ground down the middle of that
market was at length pav'd with brick, so that, being once in
the market, they had firm footing, but were often over shoes
in dirt to get there. By talking and writing on the subject,
I was at length instrumental in getting the street pav'd with
stone between the market and the brick'd foot-pavement,
that was on each side next the houses. This, for some time,
gave an easy access to the market dry-shod ; but, the rest of
the street not being pav'd, whenever a carriage came out of
the mud upon this pavement, it shook off and left its dirt
upon it, and it was soon cover'd with mire, which was not
remov'd, the city as yet having no scavengers.

After some inquiry, I found a poor, industrious man, who
was willing to undertake keeping the pavement clean, by
sweeping it twice a week, carrying off the dirt from before
all the neighbours' doors, for the sum of sixpence per month,
to be paid by each house. I then wrote and printed a paper
setting forth the advantages to the neighbourhood that might
be obtain'd by this small expense ; the greater ease in keep-
ing our houses clean, so much dirt not being brought in by
people's feet; the benefit to the shops by more custom, etc.,
etc., as buyers could more easily get at them; and by not
having, in windy weather, the dust blown in upon their goods,

THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY 381

etc., etc. I sent one of these papers to each house, and in a
day or two went round to see who would subscribe an agree-
ment to pay these sixpences ; it was unanimously sign'd, and
for a time well executed. All the inhabitants of the city were
delighted with the cleanliness of the pavement that sur-
rounded the market, it being a convenience to all, and this
rais'd a general desire to have all the streets paved, and made
the people more willing to submit to a tax for that purpose.

After some time I drew a bill for paving the city, and
brought it into the Assembly. It was just before I went to
England, in 1757, and did not pass till I was gone,1 and then
with an alteration in the mode of assessment, which I thought
not for the better, but with an additional provision for light-
ing as well as paving the streets, which was a great improve-
ment. It was by a private person, the late Mr. John Clifton,
his giving a sample of the utility of lamps, by placing one at
his door, that the people were first impress'd with the idea
of enlighting all the city. The honour of this public benefit
has also been ascrib'd to me, but it belongs truly to that gen-
tleman. I did but follow his example, and have only some
merit to claim respecting the form of our lamps, as differing
from the globe lamps we were at first supply'd with from
London. Those we found inconvenient in these respects:
they admitted no air below; the smoke, therefore, did not
readily go out above, but circulated in the globe, lodg'd on
its inside, and soon obstructed the light they were intended
to afford; giving, besides, the daily trouble of wiping them
clean; and an accidental stroke on one of them would de-
molish it, and render it totally useless. I therefore suggested
the composing them of four flat panes, with a long funnel

1 See votes.

382 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

above to draw up the smoke, and crevices admitting air
below, to facilitate the ascent of the smoke; by this means
they were kept clean, and did not grow dark in a few hours,
as the London lamps do, but continu'd bright till morning,
and an accidental stroke would generally break but a single
pane, easily repair'd.

I have sometimes wonder'd that the Londoners did not,
from the effect holes in the bottom of the globe lamps us'd
at Vauxhall have in keeping them clean, learn to have such
holes in their street lamps. But, these holes being made for
another purpose, viz., to communicate flame more suddenly
to the wick by a little flax hanging down thro' them, the other
use, of letting in air, seems not to have been thought of ; and
therefore, after the lamps have been lit a few hours, the
streets of London are very poorly illuminated.

The mention of these improvements puts me in mind of
one I propos'd, when in London, to Dr. Fothergill, who was
among the best men I have known, and a great promoter of
useful projects. I had observ'd that the streets, when dry,
were never swept, and the light dust carried away; but it
was suffer'd to accumulate till wet weather reduc'd it to mud,
and then, after lying some days so deep on the pavement
that there was no crossing but in paths kept clean by poor
people with brooms, it was with great labour rak'd together
and thrown up into carts open above, the sides of which
suffer'd some of the slush at every jolt on the pavement to
shake out and fall, sometimes to the annoyance of foot-pas-
sengers. The reason given for not sweeping the dusty streets
was, that the dust would fly into the windows of shops and
houses.

An accidental occurrence had instructed me how much

THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY 383

sweeping might be done in a little time. I found at my door
in Craven-street, one morning, a poor woman sweeping my
pavement with a birch broom; she appeared very pale and
feeble, as just come out of a fit of sickness. I ask'd who
employ 'd her to sweep there; she said, "Nobody, but I am
very poor and in distress, and I sweeps before gentlefolkses
doors, and hopes they will give me something." I bid her
sweep the whole street clean, and I would give her a shilling ;
this was at nine o'clock; at 12 she came for the shilling.
From the slowness I saw at first in her working, I could
scarce believe that the work was done so soon, and sent my
servant to examine it, who reported that the whole street was
swept perfectly clean, and all the dust plac'd in the gutter,
which was in the middle; and the next rain wash'd it quite
away, so that the pavement and even the kennel were per-
fectly clean.

I then judg'd that, if that feeble woman could sweep such
a street in three hours, a strong, active man might have done
it in half the time. And here let me remark the convenience
of having but one gutter in such a narrow street, running
down its middle, instead of two, one on each side, near the
footway; for where all the rain that falls on a street runs
from the sides and meets in the middle, it forms there a cur-
rent strong enough to wash away all the mud it meets with;
but when divided into two channels, it is often too weak to
cleanse either, and only makes the mud it finds more fluid,
so that the wheels of carriages and feet of horses throw and
dash it upon the foot-pavement, which is thereby rendered
foul and slippery, and sometimes splash it upon those who
are walking. My proposal, communicated to the good doc-
tor, was as follows :

384 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

"For the more effectual cleaning and keeping clean the
streets of London and Westminster, it is proposed that the
several watchmen be contracted with to have the dust swept
up in dry seasons, and the mud rak'd up at other times, each
in the several streets and lanes of his round; that they be
furnish'd with brooms and other proper instruments for these
purposes, to be kept at their respective stands, ready to fur-
nish the poor people they may employ in the service.

"That in the dry summer months the dust be all swept up
into heaps at proper distances, before the shops and windows
of houses are usually opened, when the scavengers, with
close- covered carts, shall also carry it all away.

"That the mud, when rak'd up, be not left in heaps to be
spread abroad again by the wheels of carriages and trampling
of horses, but that the scavengers be provided with bodies
of carts, not plac'd high upon wheels, but low upon sliders,
with lattice bottoms, which, being cover'd with straw, will
retain the mud thrown into them, and permit the water to
drain from it, whereby it will become much lighter, water
making the greatest part of its weight ; these bodies of carts
to be plac'd at convenient distances, and the mud brought
to them in wheelbarrows; they remaining where plac'd till
the mud is drain'd, and then horses brought to draw them
away."

I have since had doubts of the practicability of the latter
part of this proposal, on account of the narrowness of some
streets, and the difficulty of placing the draining-sleds so as
not to encumber too much the passage; but I am still of
opinion that the former, requiring the dust to be swept up
and carry 'd away before the shops are open, is very practi-
cable in the summer, when the days are long ; for, in walking

THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY 385

thro' the Strand and Fleet-street one morning at seven o'clock,
I observ'd there was not one shop open, tho' it had been day-
light and the sun up above three hours; the inhabitants of
London chusing voluntarily to live much by candle-light,
and sleep by sunshine, and yet often complain, a little ab-
surdly, of the duty on candles, and the high price of tallow.

Some may think these trifling matters not worth minding
or relating ; but when they consider that tho' dust blown into
the eyes of a single person, or into a single shop on a windy
day, is but of small importance, yet the great number of the
instances in a populous city, and its frequent repetitions give
it weight and consequence, perhaps they will not censure
very severely those who bestow some attention to affairs of
this seemingly low nature. Human felicity is produc'd not
so much by great pieces of good fortune that seldom happen,
as by little advantages that occur every day. Thus, if you
teach a poor young man to shave himself, and keep his razor
in order, you may contribute more to the happiness of his life
than in giving him a thousand guineas. The money may be
soon spent, the regret only remaining of having foolishly
consumed it; but in the other case, he escapes the frequent
vexation of waiting for barbers, and of their sometimes dirty
ringers, offensive breaths, and dull razors; he shaves when
most convenient to him, and enjoys daily the pleasure of its
being done with a good instrument. With these sentiments
I have hazarded the few preceding pages, hoping they may
afford hints which some time or other may be useful to a city
I love, having lived many years in it very happily, and per-
haps to some of our towns in America.

Having been for some time employed by the postmaster-
general of America as his comptroller in regulating several

VOL. I — 2 C

386 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

offices, and bringing the officers to account, I was, upon his
death in 1753, appointed, jointly with Mr. William Hunter,
to succeed him, by a commission from the postmaster-gen-
eral in England. The American office never had hitherto
paid anything to that of Britain. We were to have six
hundred pounds a year between us, if we could make that
sum out of the profits of the office. To do this, a variety of
improvements were necessary ; some of these were inevitably
at first expensive, so that in the first four years the office be-
came above nine hundred pounds in debt to us. But it soon
after began to repay us; and before I was displac'd by a
freak of the ministers, of which I shall speak hereafter, we
had brought it to yield three times as much clear revenue to
the crown as the postoffice of Ireland. Since that imprudent
transaction, they have receiv'd from it — not one farthing !

The business of the postoffice occasion 'd my taking a jour-
ney this year to New England, where the College of Cam-
bridge, of their own motion, presented me with the degree
of Master of Arts. Yale College, in Connecticut, had be-
fore made me a similar compliment.1 Thus, without study-
ing in any college, I came to partake of their honours. They
were conferr'd in consideration of my improvements and
discoveries in the electric branch of natural philosophy.

In 1754, war with France being again apprehended, a
congress of commissioners from the different colonies was,

1 " In July [1753] he received the honorary degree of A. M. from Harvard
College, Cambridge, and September commencement of the same year he
received the diploma of the same degree from us at Yale College, which he
calls his first academic Honours, because we from 1749 and onward adopted
with avidity and before all the rest of the learned world his electrical and
philosophical discoveries." — "The Literary Diary of Ezra Stiles," 1901, Vol.
Ill, 391. — ED.

THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY 387

by order of the Lords of Trade, to be assembled at Albany,
there to confer with the chiefs of the Six Nations concerning
the means of defending both their country and ours. Gov-
ernor Hamilton, having receiv'd this order, acquainted the
House with it, requesting they would furnish proper pres-
ents for the Indians, to be given on this occasion ; and nam-
ing the speaker (Mr. Norris) and myself to join Mr. Thomas
Penn and Mr. Secretary Peters as commissioners to act for
Pennsylvania. The House approv'd the nomination, and
provided the goods for the present, and tho' they did not
much like treating out of the provinces; and we met the
other commissioners at Albany about the middle of June.

In our way thither, I projected and drew a plan for the
union of all the colonies under one government, so far as
might be necessary for defense, and other important general
purposes. As we pass'd thro' New York, I had there shown
my project to Mr. James Alexander and Mr. Kennedy, two
gentlemen of great knowledge in public affairs, and, being
fortified by their approbation, I ventur'd to lay it before the
Congress. It then appeared that several of the commis-
sioners had form'd plans of the same kind. A previous
question was first taken, whether a union should be estab-
lished, which pass'd in the affirmative unanimously. A com-
mittee was then appointed, one member from each colony,
to consider the several plans and report. Mine happen'd
to be preferr'd, and, with a few amendments, was accord-
ingly reported.

By this plan the general government was to be adminis-
tered by a president-general, appointed and supported by
the crown, and a grand council was to be chosen by the rep-
resentatives of the people of the several colonies, met in their

388 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

respective assemblies. The debates upon it in Congress
went on daily, hand in hand with the Indian business. Many
objections and difficulties were started, but at length they
were all overcome, and the plan was unanimously agreed to,
and copies ordered to be transmitted to the Board of Trade
and to the assemblies of the several provinces. Its fate was
singular : the assemblies did not adopt it, as they all thought
there was too much prerogative in it, and in England it was
judg'd to have too much of the democratic. The Board of
Trade therefore did not approve of it, nor recommend it for
the approbation of his majesty; but another scheme was
form'd, supposed to answer the same purpose better, whereby
the governors of the provinces, with some members of their
respective councils, were to meet and order the raising of
troops, building of forts, etc., and to draw on the treasury of
Great Britain for the expense, which was afterwards to be
refunded by an act of Parliament laying a tax on America.
My plan, with my reasons in support of it, is to be found
among my political papers that are printed.1

Being the winter following in Boston, I had much con-
versation with Governor Shirley upon both the plans. Part
of what passed between us on the occasion may also be seen
among those papers. The different and contrary reasons
of dislike to my plan makes me suspect that it was really
the true medium; and I am still of opinion it would have
been happy for both sides the water if it had been adopted.
The colonies, so united, would have been sufficiently strong
to have defended themselves; there would then have been
no need of troops from England; of course, the subsequent

1 See " Papers Relating to a Plan of Union of the Colonies," July, 1754. —
ED.

THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY 389

pretence for taxing America, and the bloody contest it occa-
sioned, would have been avoided. But such mistakes are
not new ; history is full of the errors of states and princes.

" Look round the habitable world, how few
Know their own good, or, knowing it, pursue ! "

Those who govern, having much business on their hands,
do not generally like to take the trouble of considering and
carrying into execution new projects. The best public
measures are therefore seldom adopted from previous wisdom,
but forc'd by the occasion.

The Governor of Pennsylvania, in sending it down to the
Assembly, express 'd his approbation of the plan, "as appear-
ing to him to be drawn up with great clearness and strength
of judgment, and therefore recommended it as well worthy
of their closest and most serious attention." The House,
however, by the management of a certain member, took it
up when I happen 'd to be absent, which I thought not very
fair, and reprobated it without paying any attention to it
at all, to my no small mortification.

In my journey to Boston this year, I met at New York
with our new governor, Mr. Morris, just arriv'd there from
England, with whom I had been before intimately acquainted.
He brought a commission to supersede Mr. Hamilton, who,
tir'd with the disputes his proprietary instructions subjected
him to, had resign'd. Mr. Morris ask'd me if I thought
he must expect as uncomfortable an administration. I
said, "No; you may, on the contrary, have a very com-
fortable one, if you will only take care not to enter into any
dispute with the Assembly." "My dear friend," says he,
pleasantly, "how can you advise my avoiding disputes?

390 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

You know I love disputing ; it is one of my greatest pleasures ;
however, to show the regard I have for your counsel, I promise
you I will, if possible, avoid them." He had some reason
for loving to dispute, being eloquent, an acute sophister,
and, therefore, generally successful in argumentative con-
versation. He had been brought up to it from a boy, his
father, as I have heard, accustoming his children to dispute
with one another for his diversion, while sitting at table after
dinner; but I think the practice was not wise; for, in the
course of my observation, these disputing, contradicting, and
confuting people are generally unfortunate in their affairs.
They get victory sometimes, but they never get good will,
which would be of more use to them. We parted, he going
to Philadelphia, and I to Boston.

In returning, I met at New York with the votes of the
Assembly, by which it appear'd that, notwithstanding his
promise to me, he and the House were already in high con-
tention; and it was a continual battle between them as long
as he retain'd the government. I had my share of it; for,
as soon as I got back to my seat in the Assembly, I was put
on every committee for answering his speeches and messages,
and by the committees always desired to make the drafts.
Our answers, as well as his messages, were often tart, and
sometimes indecently abusive; and, as he knew I wrote
for the Assembly, one might have imagined that, when we
met, we could hardly avoid cutting throats; but he was
so good-natur'd a man that no personal difference between
him and me was occasion'd by the contest, and we often
din'd together.

One afternoon, in the height of this public quarrel, we
met in the street. "Franklin," says he, "you must go home

THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
with me and spend the evening; I am to have some com-
pany that you will like;" and, taking me by the arm, he led
me to his house. In gay conversation over our wine, after
supper, he told us, jokingly, that he much admir'd the idea
of Sancho Panza, who, when it was proposed to give him
a government, requested it might be a government of blacks,
as then, if he could not agree with his people, he might sell
them. One of his friends, who sat next to me, says, "Frank-
lin, why do you continue to side with these damn'd Quakers ?
Had not you better sell them? The proprietor would give
you a good price." "The governor," says I, "has not yet
blacked them enough." He, indeed, had laboured hard to
blacken the Assembly in all his messages, but they wip'd
off his colouring as fast as he laid it on, and plac'd it, in return,
thick upon his own face ; so that, finding he was likely to be
negrofied himself, he, as well as Mr Hamilton, grew tir'd
of the contest, and quitted the government.

1 These public quarrels were all at bottom owing to the
proprietaries, our hereditary governors, who, when any
expense was to be incurred for the defense of their province,
with incredible meanness instructed their deputies to pass
no act for levying the necessary taxes, unless their vast estates
were in the same act expressly excused; and they had even
taken bonds of these deputies to observe such instructions.
The Assemblies for three years held out against this injus-
tice, tho' constrained to bend at last. At length Captain
Denny, who was Governor Morris's successor, ventured
to disobey those instructions ; how that was brought about I
shall show hereafter.

But I am got forward too fast with my story: there are

1 My acts in Morris's time, military, etc. — Marg. note.

392 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

still some transactions to be mention'd that happened during
the administration of Governor Morris.

War being in a manner commenced with France, the gov-
ernment of Massachusetts Bay projected an attack upon
Crown Point, and sent Mr. Quincy to Pennsylvania, and
Mr. Pownall, afterward Governor Pownall, to New York,
to solicit assistance. As I was in the Assembly, knew its
temper, and was Mr. Quincy's countryman, he appli'd to
me for my influence and assistance. I dictated his address
to them, which was well receiv'd. They voted an aid of
ten thousand pounds, to be laid out in provisions. But
the governor refusing his assent to their bill (which included
this with other sums granted for the use of the crown), unless
a clause were inserted exempting the proprietary estate from
bearing any part of the tax that would be necessary, the
Assembly, tho' very desirous of making their grant to New
England effectual, were at a loss how to accomplish it. Mr.
Quincy labored hard with the governor to obtain his assent,
but he was obstinate.

I then suggested a method of doing the business without
the governor, by orders on the trustees of the Loan Office,
which, by law, the Assembly had the right of drawing. There
was, indeed, little or no money at that time in the office, and
therefore I propos'd that the orders should be payable in a
year, and to bear an interest of five per cent. With these
orders I suppos'd the provisions might easily be purchas'd.
The Assembly, with very little hesitation, adopted the pro-
posal. The orders were immediately printed, and I was
one of the committee directed to sign and dispose of them.
The fund for paying them was the interest of all the paper
currency then extant in the province upon loan, together

THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY 393

with the revenue arising from the excise, which being known
to be more than sufficient, they obtain'd instant credit, and
were not only receiv'd in payment for the provisions, but
many money'd people, who had cash lying by them, vested
it in those orders, which they found advantageous, as they
bore interest while upon hand, and might on any occasion
be used as money; so that they were eagerly all bought up,
and in a few weeks none of them were to be seen. Thus
this important affair was by my means compleated. Mr.
Quincy return'd thanks to the Assembly in a handsome
memorial, went home highly pleas'd with the success of his
embassy, and ever after bore for me the most cordial and
affectionate friendship.

The British government, not chusing to permit the union
of the colonies as propos'd at Albany, and to trust that union
with their defense, lest they should thereby grow too military,
and feel their own strength, suspicions and jealousies at this
time being entertain'd of them, sent over General Brad-
dock with two regiments of regular English troops for that
purpose. He landed at Alexandria, in Virginia, and thence
march'd to Frederictown, in Maryland, where he halted
for carriages. Our Assembly apprehending, from some
information, that he had conceived violent prejudices against
them, as averse to the service, wish'd me to wait upon him,
not as from them, but as postmaster-general, under the
guise of proposing to settle with him the mode of conducting
with most celerity and certainty the despatches between
him and the governors of the several provinces, with whom
he must necessarily have continual correspondence, and
of which they propos'd to pay the expense. My son accom-
panied me on this journey.

394 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

We found the general at Frederictown, waiting impa-
tiently for the return of those he had sent thro' the back
parts of Maryland and Virginia to collect waggons. I stayed
with him several days, din'd with him daily, and had full
opportunity of removing all his prejudices, by the informa-
tion of what the Assembly had before his arrival actually
done, and were still willing to do, to facilitate his operations.
When I was about to depart, the returns of waggons to be
obtained were brought in, by which it appear'd that they
amounted only to twenty-five, and not all of those were in
serviceable condition. The general and all the officers were
surpris'd, declar'd the expedition was then at an end, being
impossible, and exclaim'd against the ministers for igno-
rantly landing them in a country destitute of the means of
conveying their stores, baggage, etc., not less than one hundred
and fifty waggons being necessary.

I happen'd to say I thought it was pity they had not been
landed rather in Pennsylvania, as in that country almost
every farmer had his waggon. The general eagerly laid
hold of my words, and said, "Then you, sir, who are a man
of interest there, can probably procure them for us; and
I beg you will undertake it." I ask'd what terms were to
be offer'd the owners of the waggons; and I was desir'd
to put on paper the terms that appeared to me necessary.
This I did, and they were agreed to, and a commission and
instructions accordingly prepar'd immediately. What those
terms were will appear in the advertisement I publish'd as
soon as I arriv'd at Lancaster, which being, from the great
and sudden effect it produc'd, a piece of some curiosity, I
shall insert it at length, as follows:

THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY 395

" ADVERTISEMENT.

"LANCASTER, April 26, 1755.

"Whereas, one hundred and fifty waggons, with four horses
to each waggon, and fifteen hundred saddle or pack horses,
are wanted for the service of his majesty's forces now about
to rendezvous at Will's Creek, and his excellency General
Braddock having been pleased to empower me to contract
for the hire of the same, I hereby give notice that I shall
attend for that purpose at Lancaster from this day to next
Wednesday evening, and at York from next Thursday morn-
ing till Friday evening, where I shall be ready to agree for
waggons and teams, or single horses, on the following terms,
viz. : i. That there shall be paid for each waggon, with four
good horses and a driver, fifteen shillings per diem; and
for each able horse with a pack-saddle, or other saddle and
furniture, two shillings per diem; and for each able horse
without a saddle, eighteen pence per diem. 2. That the
pay commence from the time of their joining the forces at
Will's Creek, which must be on or before the 2oth of May
ensuing, and that a reasonable allowance be paid over and
above for the time necessary for their travelling to Will's
Creek and home again after their discharge. 3. Each
waggon and team, and every saddle or pack horse, is to be
valued by indifferent persons chosen between me and the
owner ; and in case of the loss of any waggon, team, or other
horse in the service, the price according to such valuation is
to be allowed and paid. 4. Seven days' pay is to be ad-
vanced and paid in hand by me to the owner of each waggon
and team, or horse, at the time of contracting, if required,
and the remainder to be paid by General Braddock, or by

396 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

the paymaster of the army, at the time of their discharge, or
from time to time, as it shall be demanded. 5. No drivers
of waggons, or persons taking care of the hired horses, are on
any account to be called upon to do the duty of soldiers,
or be otherwise employed than in conducting or taking care
of their carriages or horses. 6. All oats, Indian corn, or
other forage that waggons or horses bring to the camp, more
than is necessary for the subsistence of the horses, is to be
taken for the use of the army, and a reasonable price paid for
the same.

"Note. — My son, William Franklin, is empowered to
enter into like contracts with any person in Cumberland
county. B. FRANKLIN."

" To the inhabitants oj the Counties of Lancaster,
York, and Cumberland.

"Friends and Countrymen,

"Being occasionally at the camp at Frederic a few days
since, I found the general and officers extremely exasperated
on account of their not being supplied with horses and car-
riages, which had been expected from this province, as most
able to furnish them; but, through the dissensions between
our governor and Assembly, money had not been provided,
nor any steps taken for that purpose.

"It was proposed to send an armed force immediately
into these counties, to seize as many of the best carriages and
horses as should be wanted, and compel as many persons into
the service as would be necessary to drive and take care of
them.

"I apprehended that the progress of British soldiers
through these counties on such an occasion, especially con-

THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
sidering the temper they are in, and their resentment against
us, would be attended with many and great inconveniences
to the inhabitants, and therefore more willingly took the
trouble of trying first what might be done by fair and equi-
table means. The people of these back counties have lately
complained to the Assembly that a sufficient currency was
wanting; you have an opportunity of receiving and divid-
ing among you a very considerable sum; for, if the service
of this expedition should continue, as it is more than prob-
able it will, for one hundred and twenty days, the hire of
these waggons and horses will amount to upward of thirty
thousand pounds, which will be paid you in silver and gold
of the king's money.

"The service will be light and easy, for the army will
scarce march above twelve miles per day, and the waggons
and baggage-horses, as they carry those things that are
absolutely necessary to the welfare of the army, must march
with the army, and no faster; and are, for the army's sake,
always placed where they can be most secure, whether hi a
march or in a camp.

"If you are really, as I believe you are, good and loyal
subjects to his majesty, you may now do a most acceptable
service, and make it easy to yourselves; for three or four
of such as can not separately spare from the business of their
plantations a waggon and four horses and a driver, may
do it together, one furnishing the waggon, another one or
two horses, and another the driver, and divide the pay pro-
portionably between you; but if you do not this service
to your king and country voluntarily, when such good pay
and reasonable terms are offered to you, your loyalty will be
strongly suspected. The king's business must be done; so

398 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

many brave troops, come so far for your defense, must not
stand idle through your backwardness to do what may be
reasonably expected from you; waggons and horses must
be had; violent measures will probably be used, and you
will be left to seek for a recompense where you can find it,
and your case, perhaps, be little pitied or regarded.

"I have no particular interest in this affair, as, except
the satisfaction of endeavouring to do good, I shall have only
my labour for my pains. If this method of obtaining the
waggons and horses is not likely to succeed, I am obliged
to send word to the general in fourteen days ; and I suppose
Sir John St. Clair, the hussar, with a body of soldiers, will
immediately enter the province for the purpose, which I
shall be sorry to hear, because I am very sincerely and truly
your friend and well-wisher,

"B. FRANKLIN."

I received of the general about eight hundred pounds,
to be disbursed in advance-money to the waggon owners,
etc.; but that sum being insufficient, I advanc'd upward
of two hundred pounds more, and in two weeks the one
hundred and fifty waggons, with two hundred and fifty-
nine carrying horses, were on their march for the camp.
The advertisement promised payment according to the
valuation, in case any waggon or horse should be lost. The
owners, however, alleging they did not know General Brad-
dock, or what dependence might be had on his promise,
insisted on my bond for the performance, which I accordingly
gave them.

While I was at the camp, supping one evening with the
officers of Colonel Dunbar's regiment, he represented to

THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY 399

me his concern for the subalterns, who, he said, were gener-
ally not in affluence, and could ill afford, in this dear country,
to lay in the stores that might be necessary in so long a march,
thro' a wilderness, where nothing was to be purchas'd. I
commiserated their case, and resolved to endeavour procuring
them some relief. I said nothing, however, to him of my
intention, but wrote the next morning to the committee of the
Assembly, who had the disposition of some public money,
warmly recommending the case of these officers to their
consideration, and proposing that a present should be sent
them of necessaries and refreshments. My son, who had
some experience of a camp life, and of its wants, drew up a
list for me, which I enclos'd in my letter. The committee
approv'd, and used such diligence that, conducted by my
son, the stores arrived at the camp as soon as the waggons.
They consisted of twenty parcels, each containing

6 Ibs. loaf sugar. I kegg containing 20 Ibs. good

6 Ibs. good Muscovado do. butter.

i Ib. good green tea. 2 doz. old Madeira wine.

i Ib. good bohea do. 2 gallons Jamaica spirits.

6 Ibs. good ground coffee. i bottle flour of mustard.

6 Ibs. chocolate. 2 well-cur'd hams.

1-2 cwt. best white biscuit. 1-2 dozen dry'd tongues.

1-2 Ib. pepper. 6 Ibs. rice.

i quart best white wine vinegar. 6 Ibs. raisins.

i Gloucester cheese.

These twenty parcels, well pack'd, were placed on as
many horses, each parcel, with the horse, being intended
as a present for one officer. They were very thankfully
receiv'd, and the kindness acknowledg'd by letters to me
from the colonels of both regiments, in the most grateful
terms. The general, too, was highly satisfied with my

400 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

conduct in procuring him the waggons, etc., and readily
paid my account of disbursements, thanking me repeatedly,
and requesting my farther assistance in sending provisions
after him. I undertook this also, and was busily employ'd
in it till we heard of his defeat, advancing for the sendee of
my own money, upwards of one thousand pounds sterling,
of which I sent him an account. It came to his hands,
luckily for me, a few days before the battle, and he return'd
me immediately an order on the paymaster for the round
sum of one thousand pounds, leaving the remainder to the
next account. I consider this payment as good luck, having
never been able to obtain that remainder, of which more
hereafter.

This general was, I think, a brave man, and might prob-
ably have made a figure as a good officer in some European
war. But he had too much self-confidence, too high an
opinion of the validity of regular troops, and too mean a
one of both Americans and Indians. George Croghan,1
our Indian interpreter, join'd him on his march with one
hundred of those people, who might have been of great use
to his army as guides, scouts, etc., if he had treated them
kindly; but he slighted and neglected them, and they grad-
ually left him.

In conversation with him one day, he was giving me some
account of his intended progress. "After taking Fort
Duquesne," says he, "I am to proceed to Niagara; and,
having taken that, to Frontenac, if the season will allow
tune ; and I suppose it will, for Duquesne can hardly detain

1 George Croghan was an Indian trader in Pennsylvania as early as 1 746.
He was captain of Provincials in Braddock's expedition, 1755. He died in
Passayunk, Pennsylvania, in 1 782. — ED.

THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY 401

me above three or four days; and then I see nothing that
can obstruct my march to Niagara." Having before re-
volv'd in my mind the long line his army must make in their
march by a very narrow road, to be cut for them thro' the
woods and bushes, and also what I had read of a former
defeat of fifteen hundred French, who invaded the Iroquois
country, I had conceiv'd some doubts and some fears for
the event of the campaign. But I ventur'd only to say, "To
be sure, sir, if you arrive well before Duquesne, with these
fine troops, so well provided with artillery, that place not
yet completely fortified, and as we hear with no very strong
garrison, can probably make but a short resistance. The
only danger I apprehend of obstruction to your march is
from ambuscades of Indians, who, by constant practice,
are dexterous in laying and executing them ; and the slender
line, near four miles long, which your army must make, may
expose it to be attack'd by surprise in its flanks, and to be
cut like a thread into several pieces, which, from their dis-
tance, can not come up in time to support each other."

He smil'd at my ignorance, and reply'd, "These savages
may, indeed, be a formidable enemy to your raw American
militia, but upon the king's regular and disciplin'd troops,
sir, it is impossible they should make any impression." I
was conscious of an impropriety in my disputing with a
military man in matters of his profession, and said no more.
The enemy, however, did not take the advantage of his army
which I apprehended its long line of march expos'd it to,
but let it advance without interruption till within nine miles
of the place ; and then, when more in a body (for it had just
passed a river, where the front had halted till all were come
over), and in a more open part of the woods than any it had

VOL. I — 2 D

402 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

pass'd, attack'd its advanced guard by a heavy fire from
behind trees and bushes, which was the first intelligence
the general had of an enemy's being near him. This guard
being disordered, the general hurried the troops up to their
assistance, which was done in great confusion, thro* waggons,
baggage, and cattle; and presently the fire came upon their
flank: the officers, being on horseback, were more easily
distinguish'd, pick'd out as marks, and fell very fast; and
the soldiers were crowded together in a huddle, having or
hearing no orders, and standing to be shot at till two-thirds
of them were killed; and then, being seiz'd with a panick,
the whole fled with precipitation.

The waggoners took each a horse out of his team and
scamper'd; their example was immediately followed by
others; so that all the waggons, provisions, artillery, and
stores were left to the enemy. The general, being wounded,
was brought off with difficulty; his secretary, Mr. Shirley,
was killed by his side; and out of eighty-six officers, sixty-
three were killed or wounded, and seven hundred and four-
teen men killed out of eleven hundred. These eleven
hundred had been picked men from the whole army; the
rest had been left behind with Colonel Dunbar, who was to
follow with the heavier part of the stores, provisions, and
baggage. The flyers, not being pursu'd, arriv'd at Dunbar's
camp, and the panick they brought with them instantly
seiz'd him and all his people; and, tho' he had now above
one thousand men, and the enemy who had beaten Braddock
did not at most exceed four hundred Indians and French
together, instead of proceeding, and endeavouring to recover
some of the lost honour, he ordered all the stores, ammuni-
tion, etc., to be destroy'd, that he might have more horses

THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY 403

to assist his flight towards the settlements, and less lumber
to remove. He was there met with requests from the gov-
ernors of Virginia, Maryland, and Pennsylvania, that he
would post his troops on the frontier, so as to afford some
protection to the inhabitants; but he continu'd his hasty
march thro' all the country, not thinking himself safe till he
arriv'd at Philadelphia, where the inhabitants could protect
him. This whole transaction gave us Americans the first
suspicion that our exalted ideas of the prowess of British
regulars had not been well founded.

In their first march, too, from their landing till they got
beyond the settlements, they had plundered and stripped
the inhabitants, totally ruining some poor families, besides
insulting, abusing, and confining the people if they remon-
strated. This was enough to put us out of conceit of such
defenders, if we had really wanted any. How different was
the conduct of our French friends hi 1781, who, during a
march thro' the most inhabited part of our country from
Rhode Island to Virginia, near seven hundred miles, occa-
sioned not the smallest complaint for the loss of a pig, a
chicken, or even an apple.

Captain Orme, who was one of the general's aids-de-
camp, and, being grievously wounded, was brought off with
him, and continu'd with him to his death, which happen'd
in a few days, told me that he was totally silent all the first
day, and at night only said, "Who would have thought it?"
That he was silent again the following day, saying only at
last, "We shall better know how to deal with them another
time" ; and dy'd in a few minutes after.

The secretary's papers, with all the general's orders,
instructions, and correspondence, falling into the enemy's

404 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

hands, they selected and translated into French a number
of the articles, which they printed, to prove the hostile
intentions of the British court before the declaration of
war. Among these I saw some letters of the general
to the ministry, speaking highly of the great service I had
rendered the army, and recommending me to their notice.
David Hume, too, who was some years after secretary to
Lord Hertford, when minister in France, and afterward to
General Conway, when secretary of state, told me he had
seen among the papers in that office, letters from Braddock
highly recommending me. But, the expedition having been
unfortunate, my service, it seems, was not thought of much
value, for those recommendations were never of any use to
me.

As to rewards from himself, I ask'd only one, which was,
that he would give orders to his officers not to enlist any
more of our bought servants, and that he would discharge
such as had been already enlisted. This he readily granted,
and several were accordingly return'd to their masters, on
my application. Dunbar, when the command devolv'd
on him, was not so generous. He being at Philadelphia,
on his retreat, or rather flight, I apply'd to him for the dis-
charge of the servants of three poor farmers of Lancaster
county that he had enlisted, reminding him of the late gen-
eral's orders on that head. He promised me that, if the
masters would come to him at Trenton, where he should be
in a few days on his march to New York, he would there
deliver their men to them. They accordingly were at the
expense and trouble of going to Trenton, and there he refus'd
to perform his promise, to their great loss and disappoint-
ment.

THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY 405

As soon as the loss of the waggons and horses was generally
known, all the owners came upon me for the valuation which
I had given bond to pay. Their demands gave me a great
deal of trouble, my acquainting them that the money was
ready in the paymaster's hands, but that orders for paying it
must first be obtained from General Shirley, and my assur-
ing them that I had apply'd to that general by letter; but,
he being at a distance, an answer could not soon be receiv'd,
and they must have patience, all this was not sufficient to
satisfy, and some began to sue me. General Shirley at length
relieved me from this terrible situation by appointing com-
missioners to examine the claims, and ordering payment.
They amounted to near twenty thousand pound, which to
pay would have ruined me.

Before we had the news of this defeat, the two Doctors
Bond came to me with a subscription paper for raising
money to defray the expense of a grand firework, which it
was intended to exhibit at a rejoicing on receipt of the news
of our taking Fort Duquesne. I looked grave, and said it
would, I thought, be time enough to prepare for the rejoic-
ing when we knew we should have occasion to rejoice. They
seem'd surpris'd that I did not immediately comply with
their proposal. "Why the d — 1!" says one of them, "you
surely don't suppose that the fort will not be taken?" "I
don't know that it will not be taken, but I know that the
events of war are subject to great uncertainty." I gave
them the reasons of my doubting; the subscription was
dropt, and the projectors thereby missed the mortification
they would have undergone if the firework had been pre-
pared. Dr. Bond, on some other occasion afterward, said
that he did not like Franklin's forebodings.

406 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

Governor Morris, who had continually worried the As-
sembly with message after message before the defeat of
Braddock, to beat them into the making of acts to raise money
for the defense of the province, without taxing, among others,
the proprietary estates, and had rejected all their bills for
not having such an exempting clause, now redoubled his
attacks with more hope of success, the danger and necessity
being greater. The Assembly, however, continu'd firm,
believing they had justice on their side, and that it would be
giving up an essential right if they suffered the governor to
amend their money-bills. In one of the last, indeed, which
was for granting fifty thousand pounds, his propos'd amend-
ment was only of a single word. The bill express'd "that
all estates, real and personal, were to be taxed, those of the
proprietaries not excepted." His amendment was, for not
read only: a small, but very material alteration. However,
when the news of this disaster reached England, our friends
there, whom we had taken care to furnish with all the As-
sembly's answers to the governor's messages, rais'd a clamor
against the proprietaries for their meanness and injustice in
giving their governor such instructions; some going so far
as to say that, by obstructing the defense of their province,
they forfeited their right to it. They were intimidated by
this, and sent orders to their receiver-general to add five
thousand pounds of their money to whatever sum might be
given by the Assembly for such purpose.

This, being notified to the House, was accepted in lieu
of their share of a general tax, and a new bill was form'd,
with an exempting clause, which passed accordingly. By
this act I was appointed one of the commissioners for dispos-
ing of the money, sixty thousand pounds. I had been active

THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY 407

in modelling the bill and procuring its passage, and had, at
the same time, drawn a bill for establishing and disciplining
a voluntary militia, which I carried thro' the House without
much difficulty, as care was taken in it to leave the Quakers
at their liberty. To promote the association necessary to
form the militia, I wrote a dialogue,1 stating and answering
all the objections I could think of to such a militia, which
was printed, and had, as I thought, great effect.

While the several companies in the city and country were
forming, and learning their exercise, the governor prevail'd
with me to take charge of our North-western frontier, which
was infested by the enemy, and provide for the defense of
the inhabitants by raising troops and building a line of forts.
I undertook this military business, tho' I did not conceive
myself well qualified for it. He gave me a commission with
full powers, and a parcel of blank commissions for officers,
to be given to whom I thought fit. I had but little difficulty
in raising men, having soon five hundred and sixty under my
command. My son, who had in the preceding war been an
officer in the army rais'd against Canada, was my aid-de-
camp, and of great use to me. The Indians had burned
Gnadenhut, a village settled by the Moravians, and massa-
cred the inhabitants ; but the place was thought a good situ-
ation for one of the forts.

In order to march thither, I assembled the companies at
Bethlehem, the chief establishment of those people. I was
surprised to find it in so good a posture of defense ; the de-
struction of Gnadenhut had made them apprehend danger.
The principal buildings were defended by a stockade; they

1 This dialogue and the militia act are in the Gentleman's Magazine for
February and March, 1756. Marg. note.

408 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

had purchased a quantity of arms and ammunition from
New York, and had even plac'd quantities of small paving
stones between the windows of their high stone houses, for
their women to throw down upon the heads of any Indians
that should attempt to force into them. The armed brethren,
too, kept watch, and reliev'd as methodically as in any garri-
son town. In conversation with the bishop, Spangenberg,1
I mention'd this my surprise ; for, knowing they had obtained
an act of Parliament exempting them from military duties
in the colonies, I had suppos'd they were conscientiously
scrupulous of bearing arms. He answer'd me that it was
not one of their established principles, but that, at the time
of their obtaining that act, it was thought to be a principle
with many of their people. On this occasion, however,
they, to their surprise, found it adopted by but a few. It
seems they were either deceiv'd in themselves, or deceiv'd
the Parliament ; but common sense, aided by present danger,
will sometimes be too strong for whimsical opinions.

It was the beginning of January when we set out upon
this business of building forts. I sent one detachment
toward the Minisink, with instructions to erect one for the
security of that upper part of the country, and another to
the lower part, with similar instructions; and I concluded
to go myself with the rest of my force to Gnadenhut, where
a fort was tho't more immediately necessary. The Mo-
ravians procur'd me five waggons for our tools, stores, bag-
gage, etc.

Just before we left Bethlehem, eleven farmers, who had
been driven from their plantations by the Indians, came to

1 Augustus Gottlieb Spangenberg (1704-1792), a bishop of the Moravian
church, laboured among the German sects in Pennsylvania. — ED.

THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY 409

me requesting a supply of firearms, that they might go back
and fetch off their cattle. I gave them each a gun with
suitable ammunition. We had not march'd many miles
before it began to rain, and it continued raining all day;
there were no habitations on the road to shelter us, till we
arriv'd near night at the house of a German, where, and in
his barn, we were all huddled together, as wet as water could
make us. It was well we were not attack'd in our march,
for our arms were of the most ordinary sort, and our men
could not keep their gun locks dry. The Indians are dextrous
in contrivances for that purpose, which we had not. They
met that day the eleven poor farmers above mentioned, and
killed ten of them. The one who escap'd inform'd that
his and his companions' guns would not go off, the priming
being wet with the rain.

The next day being fair, we continu'd our march, and
arriv'd at the desolated Gnadenhut. There was a saw-mill
near, round which were left several piles of boards, with
which we soon hutted ourselves; an operation the more
necessary at that inclement season, as we had no tents. Our
first work was to bury more effectually the dead we found
there, who had been half interr'd by the country people.

The next morning our fort was plann'd and mark'd out,
the circumference measuring four hundred and fifty-five feet,
which would require as many palisades to be made of trees,
one with another, of a foot diameter each. Our axes, of
which we had seventy, were immediately set to work to cut
down trees, and, our men being dextrous in the use of them,
great despatch was made. Seeing the trees fall so fast, I
had the curiosity to look at my watch when two men began
to cut at a pine ; in six minutes they had it upon the ground,

410 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

and I found it of fourteen inches diameter. Each pine
made three palisades of eighteen feet long, pointed at one
end. While these were preparing, our other men dug a
trench all round, of three feet deep, in which the palisades
were to be planted; and, our waggons, the bodys being
taken off, and the fore and hind wheels separated by taking
out the pin which united the two parts of the perch, we had
ten carriages, with two horses each, to bring the palisades
from the woods to the spot. When they were set up, our
carpenters built a stage of boards all round within, about
six feet high, for the men to stand on when to fire thro' the
loopholes. We had one swivel gun, which we mounted on
one of the angles, and fir'd it as soon as fix'd, to let the Indi-
ans know, if any were within hearing, that we had such pieces ;
and thus our fort, if such a magnificent name may be given
to so miserable a stockade, was finish'd in a week, though it
rain'd so hard every other day that the men could not work.

This gave me occasion to observe, that, when men are
employ'd, they are best content'd; for on the days they
worked they were good-natur'd and cheerful, and, with the
consciousness of having done a good day's work, they spent
the evening jollily ; but on our idle days they were mutinous
and quarrelsome, finding fault with their pork, the bread,
etc., and in continual ill-humour, which put me in mind of a
sea-captain, whose rule it was to keep his men constantly
at work; and, when his mate once told him that they had
done every thing, and there was nothing further to employ
them about, " Oh," says he, "make them scour the anchor."

This kind of fort, however contemptible, is a sufficient
defense against Indians, who have no cannon. Finding
ourselves now posted securely, and having a place to retreat

THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY 411

to on occasion, we ventur'd out in parties to scour the ad-
jacent country. We met with no Indians, but we found the
places on the neighbouring hills where they had lain to watch
our proceedings. There was an art in their contrivance of
those places that seems worth mention. It being winter,
a fire was necessary for them ; but a common fire on the sur-
face of the ground would by its light have discover'd their
position at a distance. They had therefore dug holes in the
ground about three feet diameter, and somewhat deeper;
we saw where they had with their hatchets cut off the char-
coal from the sides of burnt logs lying in the woods. With
these coals they had made small fires in the bottom of the holes,
and we observ'd among the weeds and grass the prints of
their bodies, made by their laying all round, with their legs
hanging down in the holes to keep their feet warm, which,
with them, is an essential point. This kind of fire, so man-
ag'd, could not discover them, either by its light, flame,
sparks, or even smoke: it appear'd that their number was
not great, and it seems they saw we were too many to be
attacked by them with prospect of advantage.

We had for our chaplain a zealous Presbyterian minister,
Mr. Beatty, who complained to me that the men did not
generally attend his prayers and exhortations. When they
enlisted, they were promised, besides pay and provisions,
a gill of rum a day, which was punctually serv'd out to them,
half in the morning, and the other half in the evening ; and
I observ'd they were as punctual in attending to receive it;
upon which I said to Mr. Beatty, "It is, perhaps, below the
dignity of your profession to act as steward of the rum, but
if you were to deal it out and only just after prayers, you
would have them all about you." He liked the tho't, under-

412 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

took the office, and, with the help of a few hands to measure
out the liquor, executed it to satisfaction, and never were
prayers more generally and more punctually attended; so
that I thought this method preferable to the punishment
inflicted by some military laws for non-attendance on divine
service.

I had hardly finish'd this business, and got my fort well
stor'd with provisions, when I receiv'd a letter from the gov-
ernor, acquainting me that he had call'd the Assembly, and
wished my attendance there, if the posture of affairs on the
frontiers was such that my remaining there was no longer
necessary. My friends, too, of the Assembly, pressing me
by their letters to be, if possible, at the meeting, and my
three intended forts being now compleated, and the inhab-
itants contented to remain on their farms under that pro-
tection, I resolved to return ; the more willingly, as a New
England officer, Colonel Clapham, experienced in Indian
war, being on a visit to our establishment, consented to accept
the command. I gave him a commission, and, parading the
garrison, had it read before them, and introduc'd him to
them as an officer who, from his skill in military affairs, was
much more fit to command them than myself; and, giving
them a little exhortation, took my leave. I was escorted as
far as Bethlehem, where I rested a few days to recover from
the fatigue I had undergone. The first night, being in a
good bed, I could hardly sleep, it was so different from my
hard lodging on the floor of our hut at Gnaden wrapt only in
a blanket or two.

While at Bethlehem, I inquir'd a little into the practice of
the Moravians : some of them had accompanied me, and all
were very kind to me. I found they work'd for a common

THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY 4I3

stock, eat at common tables, and slept in common dormito-
ries, great numbers together. In the dormitories I observed
loopholes, at certain distances all along just under the
ceiling, which I thought judiciously placed for change of air.
I was at their church, where I was entertain'd with good
musick, the organ being accompanied with violins, hautboys,
flutes, clarinets, etc. I understood that their sermons were
not usually preached to mixed congregations of men, women,
and children, as is our common practice, but that they assem-
bled sometimes the married men, at other times their wives,
then the young men, the young women, and the little chil-
dren, each division by itself. The sermon I heard was to
the latter, who came in and were plac'd in rows on benches ;
the boys under the conduct of a young man, their tutor,
and the girls conducted by a young woman. The discourse
seem'd well adapted to their capacities, and was delivered
in a pleasing, familiar manner, coaxing them, as it were, to
be good. They behav'd very orderly, but looked pale and
unhealthy, which made me suspect they were kept too much
within doors, or not allow'd sufficient exercise.

I inquir'd concerning the Moravian marriages, whether
the report was true that they were by lot. I was told that
lots were us'd only in particular cases ; that generally, when
a young man found himself dispos'd to marry, he inform'd
the elders of his class, who consulted the elder ladies that
govern'd the young women. As these elders of the different
sexes were well acquainted with the tempers and dispositions
of their respective pupils, they could best judge what matches
were suitable, and their judgments were generally acquiesc'd
in; but if, for example, it should happen that two or three
young women were found to be equally proper for the young

414 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

man, the lot was then recurred to. I objected, if the matches
are not made by the mutual choice of the parties, some of
them may chance to be very unhappy. "And so they may,"
answer'd my informer, "if you let the parties chuse for them-
selves;" which, indeed, I could not deny.

Being returned to Philadelphia, I found the association
went on swimmingly, the inhabitants that were not Quakers
having pretty generally come into it, formed themselves into
companies, and chose their captains, lieutenants, and ensigns,
according to the new law. Dr. B. visited me, and gave me
an account of the pains he had taken to spread a general
good liking to the law, and ascribed much to those endeavours.
I had had the vanity to ascribe all to my Dialogue; however,
not knowing but that he might be in the right, I let him
enjoy his opinion, which I take to be generally the best way
in such cases. The officers, meeting, chose me to be colonel
of the regiment, which I this time accepted. I forget how
many companies we had, but we paraded about twelve
hundred well-looking men, with a company of artillery, who
had been furnished with six brass field-pieces, which they
had become so expert in the use of as to fire twelve times in a
minute. The first time I reviewed my regiment they accom-
panied me to my house, and would salute me with some
rounds fired before my door, which shook down and broke
several glasses of my electrical apparatus. And my new
honour proved not much less brittle; for all our commis-
sions were soon after broken by a repeal of the law in England.

During this short time of my colonelship, being about
to set out on a journey to Virginia, the officers of my regi-
ment took it into their heads that it would be proper for
them to escort me out of town, as far as the Lower Ferry.

THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY 415

Just as I was getting on horseback they came to my door,
between thirty and forty, mounted, and all in their uniforms.
I had not been previously acquainted with the project, or
I should have prevented it, being naturally averse to the
assuming of state on any occasion; and I was a good deal
chagrin'd at their appearance, as I could not avoid their
accompanying me. What made it worse was, that, as soon
as we began to move, they drew their swords and rode with
them naked all the way. Somebody wrote an account of
this to the proprietor, and it gave him great offense. No
such honour had been paid him when in the province, nor to
any of his governors; and he said it was only proper to
princes of the blood royal, which may be true for aught I
know, who was, and still am, ignorant of the etiquette in
such cases. £

This silly affair, however, greatly increased his rancour
against me, which was before not a little, on account of my
conduct in the Assembly respecting the exemption of his
estate from taxation, which I had always oppos'd very
warmly, and not without severe reflections on his meanness
and injustice of contending for it. He accused me to the
ministry as being the great obstacle to the king's service,
preventing, by my influence in the House, the proper form
of the bills for raising money, and he instanced this parade
with my officers as a proof of my having an intention to take
the government of the province out of his hands by force.
He also applied to Sir Everard Fawkener, the postmaster-
general, to deprive me of my office; but it had no other
effect than to procure from Sir Everard a gentle admonition.

Notwithstanding the continual wrangle between the
governor and the House, in which I, as a member, had so

41 6 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

large a share, there still subsisted a civil intercourse between
that gentleman and myself, and we never had any personal
difference. I have sometimes since thought that his little
or no resentment against me, for the answers it was known
I drew up to his messages, might be the effect of professional
habit, and that, being bred a lawyer, he might consider us
both as merely advocates for contending clients in a suit,
he for the proprietaries and I for the Assembly. He would,
therefore, sometimes call in a friendly way to advise with
me on difficult points, and sometimes, tho' not often, take
my advice.

We acted in concert to supply Braddock's army with pro-
visions; and, when the shocking news arrived of his defeat,
the governor sent in haste for me, to consult with him on
measures for preventing the desertion of the back counties.
I forget now the advice I gave ; but I think it was, that Dunbar
should be written to, and prevail'd with, if possible, to post
his troops on the frontiers for their protection, till, by re-
enforcements from the colonies, he might be able to proceed
on the expedition. And, after my return from the frontier,
he would have had me undertake the conduct of such an
expedition with provincial troops, for the reduction of Fort
Duquesne, Dunbar and his men being otherwise employed ;
and he proposed to commission me as general. I had not
so good an opinion of my military abilities as he profess'd
to have, and I believe his professions must have exceeded his
real sentiments ; but probably he might think that my popu-
larity would facilitate the raising of the men, and my in-
fluence in Assembly, the grant of money to pay them, and
that, perhaps, without taxing the proprietary estate. Find-
ing me not so forward to engage as he expected, the project

THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY 417

was dropt, and he soon after left the government, being
superseded by Captain Denny.

Before I proceed in relating the part I had in public affairs
under this new governor's administration, it may not be
amiss here to give some account of the rise and progress of
my philosophical reputation.

In 1746, being at Boston, I met there with a Dr. Spence,
who was lately arrived from Scotland, and show'd me some
electric experiments. They were imperfectly perform'd,
as he was not very expert; but, being on a subject quite
new to me, they equally surpris'd and pleased me. Soon
after my return to Philadelphia, our library company receiv'd
from Mr. P. Collinson, Fellow of the Royal Society of London,
a present of a glass tube, with some account of the use of it
in making such experiments. I eagerly seized the oppor-
tunity of repeating what I had seen at Boston; and, by
much practice, acquir'd great readiness in performing those,
also, which we had an account of from England, adding a
number of new ones. I say much practice, for my house
was continually full, for some time, with people who came
to see these new wonders.

To divide a little this incumbrance among my friends, I
caused a number of similar tubes to be blown at our glass-
house, with which they furnish'd themselves, so that we had
at length several performers. Among these, the principal
was Mr. Kinnersley, an ingenious neighbor, who, being out
of business, I encouraged to undertake showing the experi-
ments for money, and drew up for him two lectures, in which
the experiments were rang'd in such order, and accompanied
with such explanations in such method, as that the fore-
going should assist in comprehending the following. He

VOL. I — 2 E

418 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLfN

procur'd an elegant apparatus for the purpose, in which
all the little machines that I had roughly made for myself
were nicely form'd by instrument- makers. His lectures were
well attended, and gave great satisfaction; and after some
time he went thro' the colonies, exhibiting them in every
capital town, and pick'd up some money. In the West
India islands, indeed, it was with difficulty the experiments
could be made, from the general moisture of the air.

Oblig'd as we were to Mr. Collinson for his present of the
tube, etc., I thought it right he should be infonn'd of our
success in using it, and wrote him several letters containing
accounts of our experiments. He got them read in the
Royal Society, where they were not at first thought worth
so much notice as to be printed in their Transactions. One
paper, which I wrote for Mr. Kinnersley, on the sameness
of lightning with electricity, I sent to Dr. Mitchel, an ac-
quaintance of mine, and one of the members also of that
society, who wrote me word that it had been read, but was
laughed at by the connoisseurs. The papers, however,
being shown to Dr. Fothergill, he thought them of too much
value to be stifled, and advis'd the printing of them. Mr.
Collinson then gave them to Cave for publication in his
Gentleman's Magazine; but he chose to print them sepa-
rately in a pamphlet, and Dr. Fothergill wrote the preface.
Cave, it seems, judged rightly for his profit, for by the addi-
tions that arrived afterward they swell'd, to a quarto vol-
ume, which has had five editions, and cost him nothing for
copy-money.

It was, however, some time before those papers were much
taken notice of in England. A copy of them happening to
fall into the hands of the Count de Buffon, a philosopher

THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY 419

deservedly of great reputation in France, and, indeed, all
over Europe, he prevailed with M. Dalibard to translate
them into French, and they were printed at Paris. The
publication offended the Abbe* Nollet, preceptor in Natural
Philosophy to the royal family, and an able experimenter,
who had form'd and publish'd a theory of electricity, which
then had the general vogue. He could not at first believe
that such a work came from America, and said it must have
been fabricated by his enemies at Paris, to decry his system.
Afterwards, having been assur'd that there really existed such
a person as Franklin at Philadelphia, which he had doubted,
he wrote and published a volume of Letters, chiefly address'd
to me, defending his theory, and denying the verity of my
experiments, and of the positions deduc'd from them.1

I once purpos'd answering the abbe", and actually began
the answer; but, on consideration that my writings contain'd
a description of experiments which any one might repeat and
verify, and if not to be verifi'd, could not be defended; or of
observations offer'd as conjectures, and not delivered dog-
matically, therefore not laying me under any obligation to
defend them; and reflecting that a dispute between two
persons, writing in different languages, might be lengthened
greatly by mistranslations, and thence misconceptions of one
another's meaning, much of one of the abbess letters being
founded on an error in the translation, I concluded to let
my papers shift for themselves, believing it was better to
spend what time I could spare from public business in making
new experiments, than in disputing about those already made.
I therefore never answered M. Nollet, and the event gave

K'Lettres sur TElectricite, par M. 1'Ahbe Nollet." Paris: MDCCLIU.
Nine letters, six of which are addressed to Franklin. — ED.

420 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

me no cause to repent my silence; for my friend M. le Roy,
of the Royal Academy of Sciences, took up my cause and
refuted him; my book was translated into the Italian, Ger-
man, and Latin languages; and the doctrine it contain 'd
was by degrees universally adopted by the philosophers of
Europe, in preference to that of the abbe"; so that he lived

to see himself the last of his sect, except Monsieur B ,

of Paris, his tteve and immediate disciple.

What gave my book the more sudden and general celeb-
rity, was the success of one of its proposed experiments,
made by Messrs. Dalibard and De Lor at Marly, for drawing
lightning from the clouds. This engag'd the public atten-
tion every where. M. de Lor, who had an apparatus for
experimental philosophy, and lectur'd in that branch of
science, undertook to repeat what he called the Philadelphia
Experiments; and, after they were performed before the
king and court, all the curious of Paris flocked to see them.
I will not swell this narrative with an account of that capital
experiment, nor of the infinite pleasure I receiv'd in the
success of a similar one I made soon after with a kite at
Philadelphia, as both are to be found in the histories of
electricity.

Dr. Wright, an English physician, when at Paris, wrote to
a friend, who was of the Royal Society, an account of the
high esteem my experiments were in among the learned
abroad, and of their wonder that my writings had been so
little noticed in England. The society, on this, resum'd
the consideration of the letters that had been read to them;
and the celebrated Dr. Watson drew up a summary account
of them, and of all I had afterwards sent to England on the
subject, which he accompanied with some praise of the writer.

THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY 421

This summary was then printed in their Transactions;
and some members of the society in London, particularly
the very ingenious Mr. Canton, having verified the experi-
ment of procuring lightning from the clouds by a pointed
rod, and acquainting them with the success, they soon made
me more than amends for the slight with which they had
before treated me. Without my having made any applica-
tion for that honour, they chose me a member, and voted that
I should be excus'd the customary payments, which would
have amounted to twenty-five guineas; and ever since have
given me their Transactions gratis.1 They also presented
me with the gold medal of Sir Godfrey Copley for the year
1753, the delivery of which was accompanied by a very hand-
some speech of the president, Lord Macclesfield, wherein I
was highly honoured.

Our new governor, Captain Denny, brought over for me
the before-mentioned medal from the Royal Society, which
he presented to me at an entertainment given him by the
city. He accompanied it with very polite expressions of his
esteem for me, having, as he said, been long acquainted with
my character. After dinner, when the company, as was
customary at that time, were engag'd in drinking, he took
me aside into another room, and acquainted me that he had
been advis'd by his friends in England to cultivate a friend-
ship with me, as one who was capable of giving him the best
advice, and of contributing most effectually to the making
his administration easy; that he therefore desired of all
things to have a good understanding with me, and he begg'd
me to be assur'd of his readiness on all occasions to render

1 For a fuller account of his election see his letter to William Franklin,
December 19, 1767. — ED.

422 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

me every service that might be in his power. He said much
to me, also, of the proprietor's good disposition towards the
province, and of the advantage it might be to us all, and to
me in particular, if the opposition that had been so long
continu'd to his measures was dropt, and harmony restor'd
between him and the people; in effecting which, it was
thought no one could be more serviceable than myself; and
I might depend on adequate acknowledgments and recom-
penses, etc., etc. The drinkers, finding we did not return
immediately to the table, sent us a decanter of Madeira,
which the governor made liberal use of, and in proportion
became more profuse of his solicitations and promises.

My answers were to this purpose : that my circumstances,
thanks to God, were such as to make proprietary favours
unnecessary to me ; and that, being a member of the Assem-
bly, I could not possibly accept of any ; that, however, I had
no personal enmity to the proprietary, and that, whenever
the public measures he propos'd should appear to be for the
good of the people, no one should espouse and forward them
more zealously than myself ; my past opposition having been
founded on this, that the measures which had been urged
were evidently intended to serve the proprietary interest,
with great prejudice to that of the people ; that I was much
obliged to him (the governor) for his professions of regard
to me, and that he might rely on every thing in my power
to make his administration as easy as possible, hoping at
the same time that he had not brought with him the same
unfortunate instruction his predecessor had been hamper'd
with.

On this he did not then explain himself; but when he
afterwards came to do business with the Assembly, they

THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY 423

appear'd again, the disputes were renewed, and I was as
active as ever in the opposition, being the penman, first, of
the request to have a communication of the instructions, and
then of the remarks upon them, which may be found hi the
votes of the time, and in the Historical Review I afterward
publish'd. But between us personally no enmity arose;
we were often together; he was a man of letters, had seen
much of the world, and was very entertaining and pleasing
in conversation. He gave me the first information that my
old friend Jas. Ralph was still alive; that he was esteem'd
one of the best political writers in England; had been em-
ploy'd in the dispute between Prince Frederic and the king,
and had obtain'd a pension of three hundred a year ; that his
reputation was indeed small as a poet, Pope having damned
his poetry in the Dunciad; but his prose was thought as
good as any man's.

xThe Assembly finally finding the proprietary obstinately
persisted in manacling their deputies with instructions in-
consistent not only with the privileges of the people, but
with the service of the crown, resolv'd to petition the king
against them, and appointed me their agent to go over to
England, to present and support the petition. The House
had sent up a bill to the governor, granting a sum of sixty
thousand pounds for the king's use (ten thousand pounds
of which was subjected to the orders of the then general,
Lord Loudoun), which the governor absolutely refus'd to
pass, in compliance with his instructions.

I had agreed with Captain Morris, of the paquet at New
York, for my passage, and my stores were put on board,

1The many unanimous resolves of the Assembly — what date? — Marg.
note.

424 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

when Lord Loudoun arriv'd at Philadelphia, expressly, as
he told me, to endeavour an accommodation between the
governor and Assembly, that his majesty's service might not
be obstructed by their dissensions. Accordingly, he desir'd
the governor and myself to meet him, that he might hear
what was to be said on both sides. We met and discuss'd
the business. In behalf of the Assembly, I urg'd all the
various arguments that may be found in the public papers
of that time, which were of my writing, and are printed with
the minutes of the Assembly; and the governor pleaded
his instructions; the bond he had given to observe them,
and his ruin if he disobey'd, yet seemed not unwilling to
hazard himself if Lord Loudoun would advise it. This his
lordship did not chuse to do, though I once thought I had
nearly prevaiPd with him to do it ; but finally he rather chose
to urge the compliance of the Assembly ; and he entreated me
to use my endeavours with them for that purpose, declaring
that he would spare none of the king's troops for the defense
of our frontiers, and that, if we did not continue to provide
for that defense ourselves, they must remain expos'd to the
enemy.

I acquainted the House with what had pass'd, and, pre-
senting them with a set of resolutions I had drawn up, declar-
ing our rights, and that we did not relinquish our claim to
those rights, but only suspended the exercise of them on
this occasion thro* force, against which we protested, they
at length agreed to drop that bill, and frame another con-
formable to the proprietary instructions. This of course
the governor pass'd, and I was then at liberty to proceed
on my voyage. But, in the meantime, the paquet had sailed
with my sea-stores, which was some loss to me, and my only

THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
recompense was his lordship's thanks for my service, all
the credit of obtaining the accommodation falling to his
share.

He set out for New York before me; and, as the time
for dispatching the paquet-boats was at his disposition, and
there were two then remaining there, one of which, he said,
was to sail very soon, I requested to know the precise time,
that I might not miss her by any delay of mine. His answer
was, "I have given out that she is to sail on Saturday next;
but I may let you know, entre nous, that if you are there by
Monday morning, you will be in time, but do not delay
longer." By some accidental hinderance at a ferry, it was
Monday noon before I arrived, and I was much afraid she
might have sailed, as the wind was fair; but I was soon
made easy by the information that she was still in the harbor,
and would not move till the next day. One would imagine
that I was now on the very point of departing for Europe. I
thought so; but I was not then so well acquainted with his
lordship's character, of which indecision was one of the
strongest features. I shall give some instances. It was
about the beginning of April that I came to New York, and
I think it was near the end of June before we sail'd. There
were then two of the paquet-boats, which had been long in-
port, but were detained for the general's letters, which were
always to be ready to-morrow. Another paquet arriv'd;
she too was detain'd ; and, before we sail'd, a fourth was ex-
pected. Ours was the first to be dispatch'd, as having been
there longest. Passengers were engag'd in all, and some
extremely impatient to be gone, and the merchants uneasy
about their letters, and the orders they had given for insur-
ance (it being war time) for fall goods; but their anxiety

426 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN" FRANKLIN

avail'd nothing; his lordship's letters were not ready; and
yet whoever waited on him found him always at his desk,
pen in hand, and concluded he must needs write abun-
dantly.

Going myself one morning to pay my respects, I found
in his antechamber one Innis, a messenger of Philadelphia,
who had come from thence express with a paquet from
Governor Denny for the General. He delivered to me some
letters from my friends there, which occasion'd my inquir-
ing when he was to return, and where he lodg'd, that I might
send some letters by him. He told me he was order'd to
call to-morrow at nine for the general's answer to the gov-
ernor, and should set off immediately. I put my letters into
his hands the same day. A fortnight after I met him again
in the same place. "So, you are soon return'd, Innis?"
"Return'dl no, I am not gone yet." "How so?" "I have
called here by order every morning these two weeks past
for his lordship's letter, and it is not yet ready." "Is it
possible, when he is so great a writer? for I see him con-
stantly at his escritoire." "Yes," says Innis, "but he is
like St. George on the signs, always on horseback, and never
rides on." This observation of the messenger was, it seems,
well founded; for, when in England, I understood that
Mr. Pitt gave it as one reason for removing this general, and
sending Generals Amherst and Wolfe, that the minister
never heard from him, and could not know what he was doing.

This daily expectation of sailing, and all the three paquets
going down to Sandy Hook, to join the fleet there, the pas-
sengers thought it best to be on board, lest by a sudden order
the ships should sail, and they be left behind. There, if
I remember right, we were about six weeks, consuming our

V.

THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY 427

sea-stores, and oblig'd to procure more. At length the
fleet sail'd, the General and all his army on board, bound
to Louisburg, with intent to besiege and take that fortress;
all the paquet-boats in company ordered to attend the Gen-
eral's ship, ready to receive his dispatches when they should
be ready. We were out five days before we got a letter
with leave to part, and then our ship quitted the fleet and
steered for England. The other two paquets he still de-
tained, carried them with him to Halifax, where he stayed
some time to exercise the men in sham attacks upon sham
forts, then alter'd his mind as to besieging Louisburg, and
return'd to New York, with all his troops, together with the
two paquets above mentioned, and all their passengers!
During his absence the French and savages had taken Fort
George, on the frontier of that province, and the savages had
massacred many of the garrison after capitulation.

I saw afterwards in London Captain Bonnell, who com-
manded one of those paquets. He told me that, when he
had been detain'd a month, he acquainted his lordship that
his ship was grown foul, to a degree that must necessarily
hinder her fast sailing, a point of consequence for a paquet-
boat, and requested an allowance of time to heave her down
and clean her bottom. He was asked how long time that
would require. He answer'd, three days. The general re-
plied, "If you can do it in one day, I give leave; otherwise
not; for you must certainly sail the day after to-morrow."
So he never obtain'd leave, though detained afterwards from
day to day during full three months.

I saw also in London one of BonnelPs passengers, who
was so enrag'd against his lordship for deceiving and detain-
ing him so long at New York, and then carrying him to

428 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

Halifax and back again, that he swore he would sue him for
damages. Whether he did or not, I never heard; but, as
he represented the injury to his affairs, it was very con-
siderable.

On the whole, I wonder'd much how such a man came to
be intrusted with so important a business as the conduct of a
great army; but, having since seen more of the great world,
and the means of obtaining, and motives for giving places,
my wonder is diminished. General Shirley, on whom the
command of the army devolved upon the death of Braddock,
would, in my opinion, if continued in place, have made a
much better campaign than that of Loudoun in 1757, which
was frivolous, expensive, and disgraceful to our nation be-
yond conception; for, tho' Shirley was not a bred soldier,
he was sensible and sagacious in himself, and attentive to
good advice from others, capable of forming judicious plans,
and quick and active in carrying them into execution. Lou-
doun, instead of defending the colonies with his great army,
left them totally expos 'd while he paraded idly at Halifax,
by which means Fort George was lost, besides, he derang'd
all our mercantile operations, and distress'd our trade, by a
long embargo on the exportation of provisions, on pretence
of keeping supplies from being obtain'd by the enemy, but
in reality for beating down their price in favour of the con-
tractors, in whose profits, it was said, perhaps from suspicion
only, he had a share. And, when at length the embargo
was taken off, by neglecting to send notice of it to Charles-
town, the Carolina fleet was detain'd near three months
longer, whereby their bottoms were so much damaged by
the worm that a great part of them foundered in their passage
home.

THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY 429

Shirley was, I believe, sincerely glad of being relieved
from so burdensome a charge as the conduct of an army
must be to a man unacquainted with military business. I
was at the entertainment given by the city of New York to
Lord Loudoun, on his taking upon him the command.
Shirley, tho' thereby superseded, was present also. There
was a great company of officers, citizens, and strangers, and,
some chairs having been borrowed in the neighborhood,
there was one among them very low, which fell to the lot
of Mr. Shirley. Perceiving it as I sat by him, I said, "They
have given you, sir, too low a seat." "No matter," says he,
"Mr. Franklin, I find a low seat the easiest."

While I was, as afore mention'd, detain'd at New York,
I receiv'd all the accounts of the provisions, etc., that I had
furnish'd to Braddock, some of which accounts could not
sooner be obtain'd from the different persons I had employ'd
to assist in the business. I presented them to Lord Loudoun,
desiring to be paid the ballance. He caus'd them to be
regularly examined by the proper officer, who, after com-
paring every article with its voucher, certified them to be
right; and the balance due for which his lordship promis'd
to give me an order on the paymaster. This was, however,
put off from time to time ; and, tho' I call'd often for it by
appointment, I did not get it. At length, just before my
departure, he told me he had, on better consideration, con-
cluded not to mix his accounts with those of his predecessors.
"And you," says he, "when in England, have only to exhibit
your accounts at the treasury, and you will be paid im-
mediately."

I mention'd, but without effect, the great and unexpected
expense I had been put to by being detain'd so long at New

430 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMfN FRANKLIN

York, as a reason for my desiring to be presently paid ; and
on my observing that it was not right I should be put to
any further trouble or delay in obtaining the money I had
advanc'd, as I charged no commission for my service, "O,
Sir," says he, "you must not think of persuading us that
you are no gainer; we understand better those affairs, and
know that every one concerned in supplying the army finds
means, in the doing it, to fill his own pockets." I assur'd
him that was not my case, and that I had not pocketed a
farthing; but he appear'd clearly not to believe me; and,
indeed, I have since learnt that immense fortunes are often
made in such employments. As to my ballance, I am not
paid it to this day, of which more hereafter.

Our captain of the paquet had boasted much, before we
sailed, of the swiftness of his ship; unfortunately, when we
came to sea, she proved the dullest of ninety-six sail, to his
no small mortification. After many conjectures respecting
the cause, when we were near another ship almost as dull as
ours, which, however, gain'd upon us, the captain ordered
all hands to come aft, and stand as near the ensign staff as
possible. We were, passengers included, about forty per-
sons. While we stood there, the ship mended her pace,
and soon left her neighbour far behind, which prov'd clearly
what our captain suspected, that she was loaded too much
by the head. The casks of water, it seems, had been all
plac'd forward; these he therefore order'd to be mov'd
further aft, on which the ship recover'd her character, and
proved the best sailer in the fleet.

The captain said she had once gone at the rate of thirteen
knots, which is accounted thirteen miles per hour. We had
on board, as a passenger, Captain Kennedy, of the Navy,

THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY 431

who contended that it was impossible, and that no ship
ever sailed so fast, and that there must have been some
error in the division of the log- line, or some mistake in heav-
ing the log. A wager ensu'd between the two captains, to be
decided when there should be sufficient wind. Kennedy
thereupon examin'd rigorously the log- line, and, being satis-
fi'd with that, he determin'd to throw the log himself. Ac-
cordingly some days after, when the wind blew very fair and
fresh, and the captain of the paquet, Lutwidge, said he
believ'd she then went at the rate of thirteen knots, Kennedy
made the experiment, and own'd his wager lost.

The above fact I give for the sake of the following obser-
vation. It has been remark'd, as an imperfection in the
art of ship-building, that it can never be known, till she is
tried, whether a new ship will or will not be a good sailer;
for that the model of a good-sailing ship has been exactly
follow'd in a new one, which has prov'd, on the contrary,
remarkably dull. I apprehend that this may partly be
occasion'd by the different opinions of seamen respecting
the modes of lading, rigging, and sailing of a ship; each
has his system ; and the same vessel, laden by the judgment
and orders of one captain, shall sail better or worse than
when by the orders of another. Besides, it scarce ever hap-
pens that a ship is form'd, fitted for the sea, and sail'd by
the same person. One man builds the hull, another rigs
her, a third lades and sails her. No one of these has the
advantage of knowing all the ideas and experience of the
others, and, therefore, can not draw just conclusions from a
combination of the whole.

Even in the simple operation of sailing when at sea, I
have often observ'd different judgments in the officers who

432 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

commanded the successive watches, the wind being the same.
One would have the sails trimm'd sharper or flatter than
another, so that they seem'd to have no certain rule to govern
by. Yet I think a set of experiments might be instituted,
first, to determine the most proper form of the hull for swift
sailing; next, the best dimensions and properest place for
the masts; then the form and quantity of sails, and their
position, as the wind may be; and, lastly, the disposition of
the lading. This is an age of experiments, and I think a
set accurately made and combin'd would be of great use. I
am persuaded, therefore, that ere long some ingenious phi-
losopher will undertake it, to whom I wish success.

We were several times chas'd in our passage, but out-
sail'd every thing, and in thirty days had soundings. We
had a good observation, and the captain judg'd himself so
near our port, Falmouth, that, if we made a good run in the
night, we might be off the mouth of that harbor in the morn-
ing, and by running in the night might escape the notice of
the enemy's privateers, who often cruis'd near the entrance
of the channel. Accordingly, all the sail was set that we
could possibly make, and the wind being very fresh and fair,
we went right before it, and made great way. The captain,
after his observation, shap'd his course, as he thought, so as
to pass wide of the Scilly Isles; but it seems there is some-
times a strong indraught setting up St. George's Channel,
which deceives seamen and caused the loss of Sir Cloudesley
Shovel's squadron. This indraught was probably the cause
of what happened to us.

We had a watchman plac'd in the bow, to whom they
often called, "Look well out be j ore there," and he as often
answered, "Ay, ay"-, but perhaps had his eyes shut, and

THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY 433

was half asleep at the time, they sometimes answering, as
is said, mechanically; for he did not see a light just before
us, which had been hid by the studding-sails from the man
at the helm, and from the rest of the watch, but by an acci-
dental yaw of the ship was discover'd, and occasion'd a great
alarm, we being very near it, the light appearing to me as
big as a cart-wheel. It was midnight, and our captain fast
asleep; but Captain Kennedy, jumping upon deck, and
seeing the danger, ordered the ship to wear round, all sails
standing; an operation dangerous to the masts, but it carried
us clear, and we escaped shipwreck, for we were running right
upon the rocks on which the light-house was erected. This
deliverance impressed me strongly with the utility of light-
houses, and made me resolve to encourage the building
more of them in America, if I should live to return there.

In the morning it was found by the soundings, etc., that
we were near our port, but a thick fog hid the land from our
sight. About nine o'clock the fog began to rise, and seem'd
to be lifted up from the water like the curtain at a play-house,
discovering underneath, the town of Falmouth, the vessels
in its harbor, and the fields that surrounded it. This was
a most pleasing spectacle to those who had been so long
without any other prospects than the uniform view of a
vacant ocean, and it gave us the more pleasure as we were
now free from the anxieties which the state of war occasion'd.

I set out immediately, with my son, for London, and we
only stopt a little by the way to view Stonehenge on Salisbury
Plain, and Lord Pembroke's house and gardens, with his
very curious antiquities at Wilton. We arrived in London
the 27th of July, 1757.*

1 Here terminates the Autobiography, as published by Wm. Temple Frank-
VOL. I — 2E

434 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

As soon as I was settled in a lodging Mr. Charles had pro-
vided for me, I went to visit Dr. Fothergill, to whom I was
strongly recommended, and whose counsel respecting my
proceedings I was advis'd to obtain. He was against an
immediate complaint to government, and thought the pro-
prietaries should first be personally appli'd to, who might
possibly be induc'd by the interposition and persuasion of
some private friends, to accommodate matters amicably. I
then waited on my old friend and correspondent, Mr. Peter
Collinson, who told me that John Hanbury, the great Vir-
ginia merchant, had requested to be informed when I should
arrive, that he might carry me to Lord Granville's, who was
then President of the Council and wished to see me as soon
as possible. I agreed to go with him the next morning. Ac-
cordingly Mr. Hanbury called for me and took me in his
carriage to that nobleman's, who receiv'd me with great
civility; and after some questions respecting the present
state of affairs in America and discourse thereupon, he said
to me: "You Americans have wrong ideas of the nature of
your constitution; you contend that the king's instructions
to his governors are not laws, and think yourselves at liberty
to regard or disregard them at your own discretion. But
those instructions are not like the pocket instructions given
to a minister going abroad, for regulating his conduct in
some trifling point of ceremony. They are first drawn up
by judges learned in the laws; they are then considered,
debated, and perhaps amended in Council, after which they
are signed by the king. They are then, so far as they relate

lin and his successors. What follows was written in the last year of Dr.
Franklin's life, and was first printed (in English) in Mr. Bigelow's edition of
1868. — ED.

THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY 435

to you, the law o] the land, for the king is the LEGISLATOR
OF THE COLONIES." I told his lordship this was new doc-
trine to me. I had always understood from our charters
that our laws were to be made by our Assemblies, to be pre-
sented indeed to the king for his royal assent, but that being
once given the king could not repeal or alter them. And
as the Assemblies could not make permanent laws without
his assent, so neither could he make a law for them with-
out theirs. He assur'd me I was totally mistaken. I did
not think so, however, and his lordship's conversation having
a little alarm'd me as to what might be the sentiments of
the court concerning us, I wrote it down as soon as I re-
turn'd to my lodgings.1 I recollected that about 20 years
before, a clause in a bill brought into Parliament by the
ministry had propos'd to make the king's instructions laws
in the colonies, but the clause was thrown out by the Com-
mons, for which we adored them as our friends and friends
of liberty, till by their conduct towards us in 1765 it seem'd
that they had refus'd that point of sovereignty to the king
only that they might reserve it for themselves.

After some days, Dr. Fothergill having spoken to the pro-
prietaries, they agreed to a meeting with me at Mr. T. Penn's
house in Spring Garden. The conversation at first con-
sisted of mutual declarations of disposition to reasonable
accommodations, but I suppose each party had its own
ideas of what should be meant by reasonable. We then went
into consideration of our several points of complaint, which
I enumerated. The proprietaries justify'd their conduct as
well as they could, and I the Assembly's. We now appeared
very wide, and so far from each other in our opinions as

1 See also Franklin to James Bowdoin, January 13, 1772. — ED.

436 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN- FRANKLIN

to discourage all hope of agreement. However, it was con-
cluded that I should give them the heads of our complaints
in writing, and they promis'd then to consider them. I did
so soon after, but they put the paper into the hands of their
solicitor, Ferdinand John Paris, who managed for them all
their law business in their great suit with the neighbouring
proprietary of Maryland, Lord Baltimore, which had sub-
sisted 70 years, and wrote for them all their papers and
messages in their dispute with the Assembly. He was a
proud, angry man, and as I had occasionally in the answers
of the Assembly treated his papers with some severity, they
being really weak in point of argument and haughty in ex-
pression, he had conceived a mortal enmity to me, which
discovering itself whenever we met, I declin'd the proprie-
tary's proposal that he and I should discuss the heads of
complaint between our two selves, and refus'd treating with
any one but them. They then by his advice put the paper
into the hands of the Attorney and Solicitor- General for their
opinion and counsel upon it, where it lay unanswered a year
wanting eight days, during which time I made frequent de-
mands of an answer from the proprietaries, but without
obtaining any other than that they had not yet received the
opinion of the Attorney and Solicitor-General. What it
was when they did receive it I never learnt, for they did not
communicate it to me, but sent a long message to the Assem-
bly drawn and signed by Paris, reciting my paper, com-
plaining of its want of formality, as a rudeness on my part,
and giving a flimsy justification of their conduct, adding that
they should be willing to accommodate matters if the Assem-
bly would send out some person of candour to treat with them
for that purpose, intimating thereby that I was not such.

THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY 437

The want of formality or rudeness was, probably, my not
having address'd the paper to them with their assum'd titles
of True and Absolute Proprietaries of the Province of Penn-
sylvania, which I omitted as not thinking it necessary in a
paper, the intention of which was only to reduce to a cer-
tainty by writing, what in conversation I had delivered
viva voce.

But during this delay, the Assembly having prevailed
with Gov'r Denny to pass an act taxing the proprietary
estate in common with the estates of the people, which was
the grand point in dispute, they omitted answering the
message.

When this act however came over, the proprietaries,
counselled by Paris, determined to oppose its receiving the
royal assent. Accordingly they petition'd the king in Coun-
cil, and a hearing was appointed in which two lawyers were
employ'd by them against the act, and two by me in sup-
port of it. They alledg'd that the act was intended to load
the proprietary estate in order to spare those of the people,
and that if it were suffer'd to continue in force, and the
proprietaries who were in odium with the people, left to
their mercy in proportioning the taxes, they would inevi-
tably be ruined. We reply'd that the act had no such inten-
tion, and would have no such effect. That the assessors were
honest and discreet men under an oath to assess fairly and
equitably, and that any advantage each of them might ex-
pect in lessening his own tax by augmenting that of the
proprietaries was too trifling to induce them to perjure them-
selves. This is the purport of what I remember as urged
by both sides, except that we insisted strongly on the mis-
chievous consequences that must attend a repeal, for that

438 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

the money, £100,000, being printed and given to the king's
use, expended in his service, and now spread among the
people, the repeal would strike it dead in their hands to the
ruin of many, and the total discouragement of future grants,
and the selfishness of the proprietors in soliciting such a
general catastrophe, merely from a groundless fear of their
estate being taxed too highly, was insisted on in the strongest
terms. On this, Lord Mansfield, one of the counsel rose,
and beckoning me took me into the clerk's chamber, while
the lawyers were pleading, and asked me if I was really of
opinion that no injury would be done the proprietary estate
in the execution of the act. I said certainly. "Then," says
he, "you can have little objection to enter into an engage-
ment to assure that point." I answer'd, "None at all."
He then call'd in Paris, and after some discourse, his lord-
ship's proposition was accepted on both sides; a paper to
the purpose was drawn up by the Clerk of the Council, which
I sign'd with Mr. Charles, who was also an Agent of the
Province for their ordinary affairs, when Lord Mansfield
returned to the Council Chamber, where finally the law was
allowed to pass. Some changes were however recommended
and we also engaged they should be made by a subsequent
law, but the Assembly did not think them necessary; for
one year's tax having been levied by the act before the order
of Council arrived, they appointed a committee to examine
the proceedings of the assessors, and on this committee they
put several particular friends of the proprietaries. After a
full enquiry, they unanimously sign'd a report that they
found the tax had been assess'd with perfect equity.

The Assembly looked into my entering into the first part
of the engagement, as an essential service to the Province,

THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY 439

since it secured the credit of the paper money then spread
over all the country. They gave me their thanks in form
when I return'd. But the proprietaries were enraged at
Governor Denny for having pass'd the act, and turn'd him
out with threats of suing him for breach of instructions which
he had given bond to observe. He, however, having done it
at the instance of the General, and for His Majesty's service,
and having some powerful interest at court, despis'd the
threats and they were never put in execution. . . . [Un-
finished.]

V.' *

« *••

O

BINDING SECT. JUN 1 g 1971

PLEASE DO NOT REMOVE
CARDS OR aiPS FROM THIS POCKET

UNIVERSITY OF TORONTO LIBRARY


===== Benjamin Franklin - Founders Online (complete) + Works of Benjamin Franklin (Sparks, 10 vols, PD) (vol. 2) =====
Source: https://archive.org/download/worksofbenjaminfr02fran/worksofbenjaminfr02fran_djvu.txt

I

THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

VOLUME IX

E
e

THE WRITINGS

BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

COLLECTED AND EDITED
WITH A LIFE AND INTRODUCTION

BY

ALBERT HENRY SMYTH

VOLUME IX
1783-1788

THE MACMILLAN COMPANY

LONDON: MACMILLAN & CO., LTD.
All rights rtstrotd

l-l

COPYRIGHT, 1906,
BY THE MACMILLAN COMPANY.

Set up and electrotyped. Published October, 1906.

1 \

Nortoooti

J. 8. Cashing & Co. — Berwick & Smith Co.
Norwood, Mass., U.S.A.

CONTENTS

VOLUME IX

NO. PACE

1384. To Gaetano Filangieri. January 11, 1783 I

1385. To Richard Oswald. January 14, 1783 .... 3

1386. To Comte de Vergennes. January 1 8, 1783 ... 8

1387. To John Adams. January 19, 1783 8

1388. To Robert R. Livingston. January 21, 1783 ... 9

1389. To Comte de Vergennes. January 25, 1783 . . .10

1390. To Mrs. Mary Hewson. January 27, 1783 . . .11

1391. To John Sargent. January 27, 1783 .... 13

1392. To Charles W. F. Dumas. February 17, 1783 . . 15

1393. To John Coakley Lettsom. March 6, 1783 ... 15

1394. To Robert Morris. March 7, 1783 17

1395. To Robert R. Livingston. March 7, 1783 . . .18

1396. To Comte de Vergennes. March 9, 1783 . . . .18

1397. To Comte de Vergennes. March 16, 1783 . . .19

1398. To the Earl of Buchan. March 17, 1783 .... 20

1399. To Jonathan Shipley. March 17, 1783 .... 22

1400. To Sir William Jones. March 17, 1783 .... 24

1401. To John Dickinson. March 23, 1783 .... 25

1402. To David Hartley. March 23, 1783 26

1403. To Comte de Vergennes. March 24, 1783 ... 27

1404. To Emmanuel de Rohan. April 6, 1783 .... 28

1405. To M. Rosencrone. April 15, 1783 ..... 29

1406. To Robert R. Livingston. April 15, 1783 ... 30

1407. Introduction of Professor Marter. April 22, 1783 . . 35

1408. To Mrs. Mary Hewson. April 26, 1783 .... 36

1409. To Robert R. Livingston. April 27, 1783 ... 37

1410. To Comte de Vergennes. May 4, 1783 .... 37

1411. To Comte de Vergennes. May 5, 1783 .... 38

1412. To Comte de Vergennes. May 5, 1783 .... 39

1413. To David Hartley. May 8, 1783 40

1414. To Jan Ingenhousz. May 16, 1783 41

vi CONTENTS

PAGE

14°! 5. Recommendation of a Galley Slave. May 22, 1783 • • 46

1416. To Comte de Vergennes. May 23, 1783 . ... 47

1417. To Comte de Vergennes. June 3, 1783 • • • 47

1418. To Philippe-Denis Pierres. June 10, 1783 . 47

1419. To Robert R. Livingston. June 12, 1783 ... 49

1420. To Prince des Deuxponts. June 14, 1783 . . 5°

1421. On the Shock by the Electric Bottle, and the Density of

Glass. June 14, 1783 52

1422. To Baron de Steel. June 16, 1783 53

1423. To Captain Nathaniel Falconer. June 1 8, 1783 . . 54

1424. To Comte de Vergennes. July 4> 1783 57

1425. To Henry Laurens. July 6, 1783 . . . 58

1426. To Robert R. Livingston. July 22, 1783 . . 59

1427. To Comte de Vergennes. July 24, 1783 .... 73

1428. To Sir Joseph Banks. July 27, 1783 73

1429. Note by Benjamin Franklin upon a letter addressed to him

by Thomas Barclay, July 28, 1783 75

1430. To Captain Nathaniel Falconer. July 28, 1783 . . 77

1431. To Comte de Vergennes. August 1 6, 1783 ... 78

1432. To Henry Laurens. August 21, 1783 . „ . . 78

1433. To Sir Joseph Banks. August 30, 1783 .... 79

1434. To Elias Boudinot. August 31, 1783 .... 86

1435. To Charles J. Fox. September 5, 1783 . . . .86

1436. To David Hartley. September 6, 1783 .... 87

1437. To Mrs. Mary Hewson. September 7, 1783 ... 89

1438. To John Jay. September 10, 1783 91

1439. To Josiah Quincy. September n, 1783 93

1440. To Elias Boudinot. September 13, 1783 .... 96

1441. To Richard Price. September 1 6, 1783 .... 99

1442. To Elias Boudinot. September 27, 1783 . . . . 101

1443. From Maximilien-Marie-Isidore Robespierre to Benjamin

Franklin. October i, 1783 101

1444. To Sir Edward Newenham. October 2, 1783 . . .102

1445. To Thomas Brand Hollis. October 5, 1783 . . . 103

1446. To Sir Joseph Banks. October 8, 1783 . . . .105
1447- To David Hartley. October 1 6, 1783 . . . . 107

1448. To Edward Nairne. October 1 8, 1783 . . . .108

1449. To David Hartley. October 22, 1783 . . . .109

1450. To Elias Boudinot. November i, 1783 . . . . 110

1451. To Sir Joseph Banks. November 21, 1783 . . .113

CONTENTS vii

HO. PACK

1452. To Sir Joseph Banks. December i, 1783 . . .119

1453. To Henry Laurens. December 6, 1783 . . . .122

1454. To Comte de Vergennes. December 6, 1783 . . . 124

1455. To William Hodgson. December 10, 1783 . . . 124

1456. To Sir Joseph Banks. December 15, 1783 . . . 125

1457. To Comte de Vergennes. December 15, 1783 . . -125

1458. To William Carmichael. December 15, 1783 . . . 126

1459. To Giacomo Francesco Crocco. December 15, 1783 . 128

1460. To Thomas Mifflin. December 25, 1783 . . . .129

1461. To Robert Morris. December 25, 1783 . . . .135

1462. To Ebenezer Hazard. December 26, 1783 . . . 140

1463. To Thomas Mifflin. December 26, 1783 .... 140

1464. To Thomas Mifflin. December 26, 1783 .... 143

1465. To Mrs. Mary Hewson. December 26, 1783 . . .143

1466. To Samuel Cooper. December 26, 1783 . . . .144

1467. To Elias Boudinot. December 26, 1 783 . . . .146

1468. To Michel-Guillaume-Jean de Crevecoeur. 1783 . . 147

1469. On Immigration. (To an Unknown Correspondent.) 1783 149

1470. To John Jay. January 6, 1784 150

1471. To Samuel Chase. January 6, 1784 152

1472. To David Hartley. January 7, 1784 . . . .154

1473. To Jan Ingenhousz. January 1 6, 1784 . . . . 155

1474. To Comte de Vergennes. January 17, 1784 . . . 157

1475. To Mrs. Georgiana Hare-Naylor. January 25, 1784 . . 159

1476. To Mrs. Sarah Bache. January 26, 1784 . . . . 161

1477. To Charles W. F. Dumas. February i, 1784 . . . 168

1478. To Henry Laurens. February 12, 1784 .... 169

1479. To William Strahan. February 1 6, 1784 . . . -171

1480. To Jean Baptiste Le Roy. February 25, 1784 . . .173

1481. To Comte de Vergennes. February 26, 1784 . . . 173

1482. To John Paul Jones. March 4, 1784 .... 174

1483. To Benjamin Vaughan. March 5, 1784 .... 174

1484. To Comte de Vergennes. March 5, 1784. . . . 176

1485. To Charles Thomson. March 9, 1784 . . . .176

1486. To Henry Laurens. March 12, 1784 .... 178

1487. To Mrs. Mary Hewson. March 19, 1784 . . . .181

1488. To La Sabliere de la Condamine. March 19, 1784 . . 181

1489. To M. Mazue. March 19, 1784 183

1490. An Economical Project. March 20, 1784 . . . .183

1491. To John Paul Jones. March 25, 1784 .... 189

VIII

NO.

CONTENTS

1492. To John Adams. March 31, 1784 ..... 19°

1493. To Charles Thomson. March 31, 1784 . . . .190

1494. To Madame Brillon. March 31, 1784 . . . .191

1495. To Charles Thomson. April 16, 1784 . . . .191

1496. To John Walter. April 17, 1784 193

1497. To David Hartley. April 17, 1784 . . . . .196

1498. To Benjamin Webb. April 22, 1784 . . . . 197

1499. To Henry Laurens. April 29, 1784 198

1500. To Benjamin Vaughan. April 29, 1784 . . . . 199

1501. A Letter from China. May 5, 1784 200

1502. To Samuel Mather. May 12, 1784 208

1503. To Thomas Mifflin. May 12, 1784 210

1504. To Henry Laurens. May 13, 1784 211

1505. To Charles Thomson. May 13, 1784 . . . .212

1506. To Mr. and Mrs. Jay. May 13, 1784 .... 214

1507. To Comte de Vergennes. May 31, 1784 .... 215

1508. Meteorological Imaginations and Conjectures. May, 1784 215

1509. To David Hartley. June 2, 1784 219

1510. To Conde de Campomanes. June 5, 1784 . . . 221

1511. To Charles Thomson. June 14, 1784 .... 224

1512. To Thomas Mifflin. June 1 6, 1784 225

1513. Loose Thoughts on a Universal Fluid. June 25, 1784 . 227

1514. Of the Paper Money of the United States of America.

July 3, 1784 231

1515. To Thomas Percival. July 17, 1784 . . . . 236

1516. To Mason Weems and Edward Gant. July 18, 1784 . 238

1517. To Benjamin Vaughan. July 26, 1784 .... 240

1518. To Comte de Mercy Argenteau. July 30, 1784 . . 248

1519. To Messrs. Sears and Smith. August 4, 1784 . . .249

1520. To John Adams. August 6, 1784 250

1521. To Mrs. Mary Hewson. August 15, 1784 . . .251

1522. To William Franklin. August 16, 1784 . . . .252

1523. To Richard Price. August 1 6, 1784 254

1524. To Benjamin West. August 17, 1784 . . . .257

1525. To Lord Howe. August 18, 1784 258

1526. To William Strahan. August 19, 1784 . . . .259

1527. To George Whatley. August 21, 1784 . . . .264

1528. To Joseph Priestley. August 21, 1784 . . . .266

1529. To William Temple Franklin. August 25, 1784 . . 268

1530. To Comte de Vergennes. September 3, 1784 ... 269

CONTENTS ix.

NO. PACK

1531. To Benjamin Vaughan. September 7, 1784 . . . 269

1532. To William Temple Franklin. September 8, 1784 . . 270

1533. To an Unknown Correspondent. September 12, 1784 . 272

1534. To William Temple Franklin. September 13, 1784 . . 272

1535. To William Temple Franklin. October 2, 1784 . . 274

1536. To William Carmichael. October u, 1784 . . . 274

1537. To Charles Thomson. October 16, 1784 .... 276

1538. To William Temple Franklin. October 18, 1784 . . 277

1539. To Charles Thomson. November n, 1784 . . . 278

1540. To Richard Bache. November u, 1784 . . . .278

1541. To Messrs. Wital and Pauche. November 15, 1784 . 279

1542. To Dr. Brav. November 22, 1784 280

1543. To Thomas Jefferson. November 23, 1784 . . .281

1544. To ? 1784 282

1545. To Samuel Jackson Pratt. 1784 283

1546. To David Hartley. January 3, 1785 .... 284

1547. To Richard Price. February I, 1785 . . . .286

1548. To John Jay. February 8, 1785 287

1549. To Richard Henry Lee. February 8, 1785 . . . 289

1550. To Comte de Windisch-Gratz. February 22, 1785 . . 290

1551. To William Strahan. March 5, 1785 . . . .290

1552. To Benjamin Vaughan. [On the Criminal Laws and the

Practice of Privateering.] March 14, 1785 . . . 291

1553. To Richard Price. March 18, 1785 300

1554. To William Carmichael. March 22, 1785 . . . . 301

1555. To Richard Henry Lee. April 12, 1785 . . . .302

1556. To Jonathan Williams. April 13, 1785 .... 303

1557. To Benjamin Vaughan. April 21, 1785 .... 304

1558. To Antoine-Alexis-Francois Cadet de Vaux. April 28, 1785 307

1559. To Jan Ingenhousz. April 29, 1785 307

1560. To Comte de Vergennes. May 3, 1785 .... 321

1561. To Mrs. Mary Hewson. May 5, 1785 . . . .322

1562. To Jonathan Williams. May 5, 1785 .... 324

1563. To John Jay. May 10, 1785 325

1564. To Charles Thomson. May 10, 1785 . . . .326

1565. To Mr. and Mrs. Richard Bache. May 10, 1785 . . 327

1566. To Marshal de Castries. May 1 6, 1785 . . . .328

1567. To Jonathan Williams. May 19, 1785 .... 329

1568. To Caleb Whitefoord. May 19, 1785 . . . . 330

1569. To George Whatley. May 19, 1785 331

CONTENTS

1570. To George Whatley. May 23, 1785 33*

1571. To Christopher Wyvill. June 1 6, 1785 • 339

1572. On the Elective Franchises enjoyed by the Small Boroughs

in England. June 16, 1785 34o

1573. To Thomas Barclay. June 19, 1785 . • • -343

1574. To . June 20, 1785 345

1575. To Jean-Jacques Caffieri. June 20, 1785 . . . • 346

1576. To Francis Maseres. June 26, 1785 .... 347

1577. To Mrs. Mary Hewson. June 26, 1785 . . . • 351

1578. To Mrs. Mary Hewson. July 4, 1785 • • • • 352

1579. To Edward Bridgen. July 4, 1785 353

1580. To Claudius Crigan. July 5, 1785 353

1581. To Granville Sharp. July 5, 1785 357

1582. To David Hartley. July 5, 1785 359

1583. To Jonathan Williams. July 5, 1785 . . . .36°

1584. To Comte de Salmes. July 5, 1785 36°

1585. To John Paul Jones. July 9, 1785 362

1586. To Charles-Joseph Mathon de la Cour. July 9, 1785 . 362

1587. To Mrs. Jane Mecom. July 13, 1785 . . . . 363

1588. To Madame Helvdtius. July 19, 1785 . . . . 364

1589. To Benjamin Vaughan. July 24, 1785 . . . 365

1590. To Ruellan & Co. July 25, 1785 366

1591. To Jean Holker. July 25, 1785 367

1592. To Ferdinand Grand. July 25, 1785 . . . .368

1593. To Andre* Limozin. July 25, 1785 370

1594. To Mrs. Mary Hewson. July 26, 1785 .... 370

1595. To J. Coakley Lettsom. July 26, 1785 . . . .371

1596. To Madame Helve'tius. July 27, 1785 . . . 372

1597. To David Le Roy [Maritime Observations] . August, 1785 372

1598. To Jan Ingenhousz [On the Causes and Cure of Smoky

Chimneys]. August 28, 1785 ..... 413

1599. Description of a new Stove for burning of Pitcoal, and

consuming all its Smoke. August, 1785 . . . 443

1600. To John Jay. September 19, 1785 463

1601. To George Washington. September 20, 1785 . . . 464

1602. To Governor William Greene and Mrs. Greene. Septem-

ber 20, 1785 465

1603. To John Jay and Mrs. Jay. September 21, 1785 . . 466

1604. To Thomas Paine. September 27, 1785 . . . .467

1605. To Francis Childs. October I, 1785 . . . .468

CONTENTS xi

NO. PACK

1606. To Donatien Le Ray de Chaumont. October 20, 1785 . 469

1607. To Madame Helve'tius. October 20, 1 785 . . . 470

1608. To Ferdinand Grand. October 20, 1785 .... 471

1609. To David Hartley. October 27, 1785 .... 472

1610. To Mrs. Mary Hewson. October 30, 1785 . . . 473

1611. To Samuel Elbert. November 5, 1785 .... 474

1612. To Messrs. Sears and Smith. November 14, 1785 . . 475

1613. To John Bard and Mrs. Bard. November 14, 1785 . . 476

1614. To Charles-Joseph Mathon dela Cour. November 18, 1785 476

1615. To George Clinton. January I, 1786 .... 477

1616. To James Bowdoin. January I, 1786 .... 478

1617. To Jonathan Williams. January 19, 1786 . . . 480

1618. To Jonathan Williams. January 27, 1786 . . . 481

1619. To Ferdinand Grand. January 29, 1786 .... 482

1620. Description of an Instrument for taking down Books from

high Shelves. January, 1786 ..... 483

1621. To Jonathan Williams. February 12, 1786 . . . 486

1622. To Jonathan Williams. February 16, 1786 . . . 487

1623. To Jonathan Shipley. February 24, 1786 . . .488

1624. To Ferdinand Grand. March 5, 1786 .... 492

1625. To Benjamin Rush. March n (?), 1786 .... 494

1626. To M. Le Veillard. March 16, 1786 .... 495

1627. To Ferdinand Grand. March 20, 1786 .... 497

1628. To Thomas Jefferson. March 20, 1786 .... 499

1629. To Daniel Roberdeau. March 23, 1786 .... 500

1630. To Jean-Baptiste Le Roy. March 27, 1786 . . . 501

1631. To Abbe* de la Roche. April, 1786 502

1632. To Mrs. Jane Mecom. April 8, 1786 . . . .506

1633. To Mrs. Jane Mecom. April 25, 1786 .... 508

1634. To Andrew Strahan. May 6, 1786 509

1635. To Mrs. Mary Hewson. May 6, 1786 .... 510

1636. To Mrs. Mary Hewson. May 30, 1786 .... 513

1637. To Mrs. Jane Mecom. June 3, 1786 . . . .514

1638. To John Franklin, William Hooker Smith, and John

Jenkins, in Council. June u, 1786 . . . 515

1639. To Charles Thomson. June 18, 1786 . . . -517

1640. To Noah Webster. June 1 8, 1786 518

1641. To Jan Ingenhousz. June 27, 1786 519

1642. To . July 3, 1786 (?) 520

1643. To Mrs. Jane Mecom. July 4, 1786 522

xii CONTENTS

PAGE

1644. To Charles Thomson. July 6, 1786 523

1645. To John Jay. July 6, 1786 525

1646. To Dr. Arthaud. July 9, 1786 526

1647. To Noah Webster. July 9, 1786 527

1648. To Ferdinand Grand. July n, 1786 . . • - 527

1649. To Joseph Priestley. July 29, 1786 528

1650. To Richard Price. July 29, 1786 529

1651. To Benjamin Vaughan. July 31, 1786 . . . -53°

1652. To Mathew Carey. August 10, 1786 . . . . 533

1653. To William Cocke. August 12, 1786 . . . -534

1654. To Jean-Baptiste Le Roy. August 15, 1786 . . . 535

1655. To Ferdinand Grand. August 15, 1786 .... 536

1656. To John Jay. August 24, 1786 . 537

1657. On Thermometers. September 13, 1786 . . . . 538

1658. To Mrs. Jane Mecom. September 21, 1786 . . . 539

1659. To Mile. Le Ray de Chaumont. October 7, 1786 . . 541

1660. To Donatien Le Ray de Chaumont. October 7, 1786 . 542

1661. To Charles Pettit. October 10, 1786 . . . -543

1662. To Charles Biddle. November 2, 1786 . . . . 545

1663. To Abb£ de la Roche. November 20, 1786 . . 546

1664. To William Hunter. November 24, 1786 . . . . 547

1665. To Thomas Wight, Jr. November 25, 1786 . . . 549

1666. To . November 25, 1786 549

1667. To Edward Bancroft. November 26, 1786 . . . 550

1668. To Captain Thomas de Ugarta Y Lianes. December 16,

1786 551

1669. To Captain Nathaniel Falconer. December 16, 1786 . 552

1670. To Charles Thomson. January 25, 1787 .... 553

1671. To Alexander Small. February 19, 1787 . . . . 555

1672. To Nevil Maskelyne. March 29, 1787 . . . -557

1673. To M. le Veillard. April 15, 1787 558

1674. To the Due de la Rochefoucauld. April 15, 1787 . -563

1675. TO Comte d'Estaing. April 15, 1787 . . . .566

1676. To the Marquis de Chastellux. April 17, 1787 . . . 567

1677. To Messrs, the Abbe's Chalut and Arnaud. April 17, 1787 569

1678. To the Marquis de Lafayette. April 17, 1787 . . . 569

1679. To Jean-Baptiste Le Roy. April 1 8, 1787 . . .572

1680. To Thomas Jefferson. April 19, 1787 . . . -573

1681. To Ferdinand Grand. April 22, 1787 . . . -575

1682. To Abb£ Morellet. April 22, 1787 577

CONTENTS xiii

NO. PAGE

1683. To Francis Childs. May 8, 1787 !. ... 580

1684. To Thomas Jordan. May 1 8, 1787 582

1685. To William Herschell. May 1 8, 1787 . . . . 584

1686. To John Adams. May 18, 1787 585

1687. To Richard Price. May 1 8, 1787 585

1688. To George Whatley. May 1 8, 1787 587

1689. To Mrs. Jane Mecom. May 30, 1787 .... 589

1690. Speech in the Convention; On the Subject of Salaries.

June 2, 1787 . . . 590

1691. Speech in a Committee of the Convention; On the Pro-

portion of Representation and Votes. June n, 1787 . 595

1692. Motion for Prayers in the Convention. June 28, 1787 . 600

1693. Proposal for Consideration in the Convention for forming

the Constitution of the United States. June 30, 1787 . 602

1694. To John Paul Jones. July 22, 1787 604

1695. To Caleb Whitefoord. July 27, 1787 .... 605

1696. To S. Osgood and A. Lee. August 31, 1787 . . .606

1697. Speech in the Convention, at the Conclusion of its Delib-

erations. September 17, 1787 607

1698. To Arthur St. Clair and other Delegates in Congress.

September 20, 1787 609

1699. To Mrs. Jane Mecom. September 20, 1787 . . .612

1700. To Alexander Small. September 28, 1787 . . . 614

1701. To Professor Landriani. October 14, 1787 . . .617

1702. To Gaetano Filangieri. October 14, 1787 . . . 618

1703. To Ferdinand Grand. October 22, 1787 .... 619

1704. To Donatien Le Ray de Chaumont. October 22, 1787 . 620

1705. To Mrs. Jane Mecom. November 4, 1787 . . . 620

1706. To Comte de Buffon. November 19, 1787 . . . 622

1707. To Mrs. Jane Mecom. December n, 1787 . . .623

1708. To . December 15, 1787 624

1709. To Samuel Elbert. December 16, 1787 . . . .625

1710. To the Printer of the Evening Herald. 1787 (?) . . 627

1711. On sending Felons to America. 1787 (?) . . . 628

1712. To John Ross. January 21, 1788 630

I7I3« To Samuel Osgood and Walter Livingston. January 31, 1788 631

1714. To Count de Moustiers. February 10, 1788 . . 632

1715. To Jan Ingenhousz. February u, 1788 . . . .633

1716. To Michel-Guillaume-Jean de Crevecoeur. February 16,

1788 636

xiv CONTENTS

PAGB

1717. To M. Le Veillard. February 17, 1788 .... 636

1718. To the Editors of the Pennsylvania Gazette. [On the

Abuse of the Press.] March 30, 1788 .... 639

1719. To Mrs. Collas. April 12, 1788 642

1720. To Madame Brillon. April 19, 1788 .... 643

1721. To M. Le Veillard. April 22, 1788 645

1722. To Madame Helv^tius. April 23, 1788 .... 646

1723. To Joseph-Ignace Guillotin. j May 4, 1788 . . .648

1724. To the Princess Dashkow. May 7,1788. . . . 649

1725. To Rev. John Lathrop. May 31, 1788 . . . .649

1726. To James Bowdoin. May 31, 1788 652

1727. To Mather Byles. June i, 1788 655

1728. To M. Le Veillard. June 8, 1788 657

1729. To Dupont de Nemours. June 9, 1788 . . . .658

1730. To Mathew Carey. June 10, 1788 660

1731. To John Jay. June 27, 1788 662

1732. To George Clinton. July 10, 1788 663

1733. To Benjamin Chambers, and the other Gentlemen of Cham-

bersburgh. September 20, 1788 664

1734. To the Due de la Rochefoucauld. October 22, 1788 . 665

1735. To Miss Flainville. October 23, 1788 . . . .667

1736. To Madame Lavoisier. October 23, 1788 . . . 667

1737. To Joseph-Ignace Guillotin. October 23, 1788 . . 669

1738. To Jan Ingenhousz. October 24, 1788 .... 670

1739. To Dupont de Nemours. October 24, 1788 . . .671

1740. To M. Le Veillard. October 24, 1788 . . . 673

1741. To Benjamin Vaughan. October 24, 1788 . . . 675

1742. To Ferdinand Grand. October 24, 1788 .... 677

1743. To Madame Helve'tius. October 25, 1788 . . . 678

1744. To Jean-Baptiste Le Roy. October 25, 1788 . . . 679

1745. To Don Diego Gardoqui. October 26, 1788 . . . 679

1746. To Joseph Elam. November 10, 1788 . . . .680

1747. To the Due de la Rochefoucauld. November 13, 1788 . 68 1

1748. To Francis Childs. November 19, 1788 . . . . 682

1749. To Mrs. Elizabeth Partridge. November 25, 1788 . . 682

1750. To Mrs. Jane Mecom. November 26, 1788 . . . 684
1751- To Cyrus Griffin. November 29, 1788 . . . .686
1752. To William Vaughan. December 9, 1788 . . . 688
1753- To Abbe' Morellet. December 10, 1788 .... 690
1754. To Charles Thomson. December 29, 1788 . . .691

CONTENTS

1755. To the Editor of the Federal Gazette : A Comparison of the
Conduct of the Ancient Jews and of the Anti-Federalists
in the United States of America. 1788. . . .698

TABLE OF ABBREVIATIONS

A. P. S American Philosophical Society.

B. M British Museum.

B. N Bibliotheque Nationale.

D. S. W. . Department of State, Washington.

H Harvard University.

L. C Library of Congress.

L. L Lenox Library.

Lans Lansdowne House.

M. H. S Massachusetts Historical Society.

P. C Private Collection.

P. H. S Pennsylvania Historical Society.

P. R. O Public Record Office.

P. R. O. A. W. I Public Record Office : America and

West Indies.
P. A. E. E. U Paris Departement des Affaires

Etrangeres, — Etats-Unis.

U. of P University of Pennsylvania.

Y Yale University.

B Bigelow.

F Benjamin Franklin.

S Sparks.

V Benjamin Vaughan.

W. T. F W. T. Franklin.

Franklin's Mss. exist in several forms. He made a rough draft of
every letter that he wrote ; he then made a clean copy to send away, and
often retained a letter-press copy. To indicate the state of the docu-
ment, the following abbreviations are used: d. = draft, trans. = transcript,
1. p. = letter-press copy.

1384. TO GAETANO FILANGIERI l (p. c.)

Passy, January 11, 1783

The letter you did me the honour of writing to me in August
last came to my hands when I lay ill of two painful disorders,
which confined me near three months, and with the mul-
tiplicity of business that followed obliged me to postpone
much of my correspondence. I have yesterday received a
second letter from you, and I now, without further delay, sit
down to answer them both.

The two first volumes of your excellent work, which were
put into my hands by M. Pio,2 1 perused with great pleasure.
They are also much esteemed by some very judicious persons
to whom I have lent them. I should have been glad of another
copy for one of those friends, who is very desirous of pro-
curing it; but I suppose those you mention to have sent to
M. Pio did not arrive. I was glad to learn that you were
proceeding to consider the criminal laws, None have more
need of reformation. They are everywhere in so great dis-

1 From "The Private Correspondence of Benjamin Franklin " , Vol. I,

p. 121.

Gaetano Filangieri (1752-1788), an eminent Italian publicist. The
" excellent work " referred to above was " Scienza della Legislazione." The
first two volumes were published in Naples in 1 780. They made a great sen-
sation, and gave Filangieri at once the foremost place among the publicists of
Europe. The above letter was, in 1873, in the possession of Prince de Filan-
gieri Satriano, a grandson of Gaetano Filangieri. — ED.

2 Charge d' Affaires of the court of Naples. — ED.

VOL. ix — B i

2 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1783

order, and so much injustice is committed in the execution of
them, that I have been sometimes inclined to imagine less
would exist in the world if there were no such laws, and
the punishment of injuries were left to private resentment.
I am glad, therefore, that you have not suffered yourself to be
discouraged by any objections or apprehensions, and that we
may soon expect the satisfaction of seeing the two volumes
on that subject which you have now under the press.1

With regard to your project of removing to America, though
I am sure that a person of your knowledge, just sentiments,
and useful talents would be a valuable acquisition for our
country, I cannot encourage you to undertake hastily such a
voyage ; because for a man to expatriate himself is a serious
business, and should be well considered, especially where the
distance is so great and the expense of removing thither with
a family, of returning if the country should not suit you, will
be so heavy. I have no orders or authority of any kind to
encourage strangers with expectations of employment by our
government, nor am I empowered to be at any expense in
transporting them ; though our country is open, and strangers
may establish themselves there, where they soon become
citizens and are respected according to their conduct. Men
know, because they feel, the inconveniences of their present
situation; but they do not know those that may, if they
change, attend the new one. I wish, therefore, you could see
that country by yourself before you carry thither the lady
with whom you propose to be united in marriage.2 You will
then be able to form a good judgment how far the removal

1 They were published in 1783. — ED.

2 In 1783 Filangieri married Caroline de Frendel, governess of the infanta,
the second daughter of the King of Naples. — ED.

1783] TO RICHARD OSWALD 3

is likely to be advantageous, and may proceed on surer
grounds. England has now acknowledged our indepen-
dence, and the sovereignty of our government ; and several
states of Europe who think a commerce with us may be
beneficial to them are preparing to send ministers to reside
near the Congress. It is possible to establish a profitable
trade between the kingdom of Naples and America. Should
your court be of that opinion, and think fit to employ some
one to visit our several States and take information of our
productions and wants, the nature of our commerce, etc., etc.,
perhaps it could not find a fitter person than yourself for
such a mission. I would afford you all the assistance in my
power towards its due execution, and by this means your
voyage would not only be without expense to you, but might
afford you some profit.

1385. TO RICHARD OSWALD (LANS.)
Passy, January 14, 1783.

SIR,

I am much obliged by your Information of your intended
Trip to England. I heartily wish you a good Journey and a
speedy Return, and request your kind Care of a Packet for
Mr. Hodgson.

I inclose two Papers, that were read at different times
by me to the Commissioners ; they may serve to show, if you
should have occasion, what was urged on the Part of Amer-
ica on certain Points ; or may help to refresh your Memory.
I send you also another Paper, which I once read to you
separately. It contains a Proposition for improving the Law

THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1783

of Nations, by prohibiting the Plundering of unarmed and
usefully employed People. I rather wish than expect, that it
will be adopted. But I think it may be offered with a better
Grace by a Country, that is likely to suffer least and gain most
by continuing the ancient Practice; which is our Case, as
the American Ships, laden only with the gross Productions
of the Earth, cannot be so valuable as yours, filled with Sug-
ars or with Manufactures. It has not yet been considered
by my Colleagues, but if you should think or find that it
might be acceptable on your Side, I would try to get it inserted
in the general Treaty. I think it will do honour to the
Nations that establish it.

With great and sincere Esteem, I am, Sir, your most obedi-
ent and most humble Servant,

B. FRANKLIN.

Propositions relative to Privateering, communicated to Mr.

Oswald.

It is for the interest of humanity in general, that the oc-
casions of war, and the inducements to it, should be dimin-
ished.

If rapine is abolished, one of the encouragements to war
is taken away, and peace therefore more likely to continue
and be lasting.

The practice of robbing merchants on the high seas, a
remnant of the ancient piracy, though it may be accidentally
beneficial to particular persons, is far from being profitable
to all engaged in it, or to the nation that authorizes it. In
the beginning of a war, some rich ships, not upon their guard,
are surprised and taken. This encourages the first adven-

1783] TO RICHARD OSWALD 5

turers to fit out more armed vessels, and many others to do the
same. But the enemy at the same time become more careful,
arm their merchant ships better, and render them not so easy
to be taken ; they go also more under protection of convoys ;
thus, while the privateers to take them are multiplied, the
vessels subject to be taken, and the chances of profit, are
diminished, so that many cruises are made, wherein the ex-
penses overgo the gains; and, as is the case in other lotter-
ies, though particulars have got prizes, the mass of adventurers
are losers, the whole expense of fitting out all the privateers,
during a war, being much greater than the whole amount of
goods taken. Then there is the national loss of all the labour
of so many men during the time they have been employed in
robbing; who, besides, spend what they get in riot, drunken-
ness, and debauchery, lose their habits of industry, are rarely
fit for any sober business after a peace, and serve only to in-
crease the number of highwaymen and housebreakers. Even
the undertakers, who have been fortunate, are by sudden
wealth led into expensive living, the habit of which continues
when the means of supporting it ceases, and finally ruins
them ; a just punishment for their having wantonly and un-
feelingly ruined many honest, innocent traders and their
families, whose subsistence was employed in serving the
common interests of mankind.

Should it be agreed and become a part of the law of nations,
that the cultivators of the earth are not to be molested or
interrupted in their peaceable and useful employment, the in-
habitants of the sugar islands would perhaps come under the
protection of such a regulation, which would be a great ad-
vantage to the nations who at present hold those islands, since
the cost of sugar to the consumer in those nations consists

6 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1783

not merely in the price he pays for it by the pound, but in the
accumulated charge of all the taxes he pays in every war, to
fit out fleets and maintain troops for the defence of the islands
that raise the sugar, and the ships that bring it home. But
the expense of treasure is not all. A celebrated philosophi-
cal writer remarks, that, when he considered the wars made
in Africa, for prisoners to raise sugars in America, the num-
bers slain in those wars, the numbers that, being crowded in
ships, perish in the transportation, and the numbers that die
under the severities of slavery, he could scarce look on a mor-
sel of sugar without conceiving it spotted with human blood.
If he had considered also the blood of one another, which the
white nations shed in fighting for those islands, he would have
imagined his sugar not as spotted only, but as thoroughly
dyed red. On these accounts I am persuaded, that the sub-
jects of the Emperor of Germany, and the Empress of Russia,
who have no sugar islands, consume sugar cheaper at Vienna,
and Moscow, with all the charge of transporting it after its
arrival in Europe, than the citizens of London or of Paris.
And I sincerely believe, that if France and England were to
decide, by throwing dice, which should have the whole of
their sugar islands, the loser in the throw would be the gainer.
The future expense of defending them would be saved ; the
sugars would be bought cheaper by all Europe, if the inhab-
itants might make it without interruption, and, whoever im-
ported the sugar, the same revenue might be raised by duties
at the customhouses of the nation that consumed it. And,
on the whole, I conceive it would be better for the nations now
possessing sugar colonies to give up their claim to them, let
them govern themselves, and put them under the protection
of all the powers of Europe as neutral countries, open to the

I7«3] TO RICHARD OSWALD ^

commerce of all, the profits of the present monopolies being
by no means equivalent to the expense of maintaining them.

Article.

If war should hereafter arise between Great Britain and
the United States, which God forbid, the merchants of either
country then residing in the other shall be allowed to remain
nine months to collect their debts, and settle their affairs, and
may depart freely, carrying off all their effects without moles-
tation or hindrance. And all fishermen, all cultivators of the
earth, and all artisans or manufacturers unarmed, and in-
habiting unfortified towns, villages, or places, who labour for
the common subsistence and benefit of mankind, and peace-
ably follow their respective employments, shall be allowed to
continue the same, and shall not be molested by the armed
force of the enemy in whose power by the events of the war
they may happen to fall ; but, if any thing is necessary to be
taken from them, for the use of such armed force, the same
shall be paid for at a reasonable price. And all merchants
or traders with their unarmed vessels, employed in commerce,
exchanging the products of different places, and thereby ren-
dering the necessaries, conveniences, and comforts of human
life more easy to obtain, and more general, shall be allowed
to pass freely, unmolested. And neither of the powers,
parties to this treaty, shall grant or issue any commission to
any private armed vessels, empowering them to take or de-
stroy such trading ships, or interrupt such commerce.

8 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1783

1386. TO COMTE DE VERGENNES l (P. A. E. E. u.)

Passy, January 18, 1783.
SIR,

Agreable to the Notice just received from your Excellency,
I shall acquaint Mr. Adams with your desire to see us on
Monday before ten o'clock, at Versailles ; and we shall en-
deavour to be punctual. My other Colleagues are absent;
Mr. Laurens being gone to Bath, in England, to recover his
Health, and Mr. Jay into Normandy. I shall bring my
Grandson, as you direct. With great Respect, I have the
honour to be, &c. B. FRANKLIN.

1387. TO JOHN ADAMS (M. H. s.)
Passy, January 19, 1783.

SIR,

Late last night I received a note from Count de Vergennes,
acquainting me that it is very essential he should have a con-
ference with us, and requesting that I would inform my col-

1 The following is the note from Vergennes to which the above is a reply : —

"Versailles, January 18, 1783.
" SIR,

" It is essential that I should have the honour of conferring with you, Mr.
Adams, and your other colleagues, who are in Paris. I therefore pray you to
invite these gentlemen to come out to Versailles with you on Monday, before
ten o'clock in the morning. It will be well, also, if you will bring your grand-
son. It will be necessary for much writing and translating from English into
French to be done. The object for which I ask this interview's very inter-
esting to the United States. I have the honour to be, Sir,

"DE VERGENNES." — ED.

1783] TO ROBERT R. LIVINGSTON 9

leagues. He desires that we may be with him before ten on
Monday morning. If it will suit you to call here, we may go
together in my carriage. We should be on the road by eight
o'clock. With great regard, I have the honour to be, &c.

B. FRANKLIN.

1388. TO ROBERT R. LIVINGSTON (D. s. w.)

Passy, January 21, 1783.

SIR,

I have just received your letters of November pth and
December 3d.1 This is to inform you, and to request you to
inform the Congress, that the preliminaries of peace between
France, Spain, and England, were yesterday signed, and a
cessation of arms agreed to by the ministers of those powers,
and by us in behalf of the United States, of which act, so far
as relates to us, I enclose a copy. I have not yet obtained a
copy of the preliminaries agreed to by the three crowns, but
hear, in general, that they are very advantageous to France
and Spain. I shall be able, in a day or two, to write more
fully and perfectly. Holland was not ready to sign prelimi-
naries, but their principal points are settled. Mr. Laurens is
absent at Bath, and Mr. Jay in Normandy, for their healths,
but will both be here to assist in forming the definitive treaty.
I congratulate you and our country on the happy prospects
afforded us by the finishing so speedily this glorious revolu-
tion, and am, with great esteem, Sir, &c.

B. FRANKLIN.

1 See "Diplomatic Correspondence" (Sparks), Vol. IV, pp. 31, 45. — ED.
THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1783

1389. TO COMTE DE VERGENNES (L. c.)

Passy, Jan. 25. 1783

SIR,

I received the Letter your Excellency did me the honour
of writing to me the 3ist of the last Month, relative to the
fresh pecuniary Aid which the King was dispos'd to grant
to the Congress. I received also a second Letter on the same
Subject, Dated the i6th Instant. I am extremely sensible
of his Majesty's Goodness in according a new Loan to the
United States of Six Millions, and I accept the same in their
Behalf with the most perfect Gratitude. Considering the
enormous Expence this extensive War must occasion to his
Majesty I did hope to avoid the Necessity of repeating their
original Request of a larger Sum ; and with that View have
had many Consultations & considered various Schemes
with our Banker Mr Grand, for procuring Money elsewhere.
This with other Circumstances occasioned my so long Delay
in Answering, which I beg you would excuse. None of those
Schemes proving practicable, I am constrain'd by my Orders
humbly to request that the Matter may be reconsidered ; and
that at least Six Millions more may be added. As Peace will
diminish both the King's Expence and ours, I hope this Re-
quest may be granted and that it may be sufficient for our
Occasions. I am however ready to enter into and sign the
Contract your Excellency mentions for whatever Sum his
Majesty's Wisdom & Goodness shall think fit to direct.
I inclose the Resolutions of Congress, impowering me to

1783] TO MRS. MARY HEWSON n

borrow the Twenty Millions ; in which their Sense of his
Majesty's Friendship is strongly express'd.
I am, with great Respect,
Sir,

Your Excellency's most obedient
& most humble Servant

B. FRANKLIN.

1390. TO MRS. MARY HEWSON l (p. c.)

Passy, Jan. 27. 1783.

— The Departure of my dearest Friend,2 which I learn
from your last Letter, greatly affects me. To meet with her
once more in this Life was one of the principal Motives of
my proposing to visit England again, before my Return to
America. The last Year carried off my Friends Dr. Pringle,
and Dr. Fothergill, Lord Kaims, and Lord le Despencer.
This has begun to take away the rest, and strikes the hardest.
Thus the Ties I had to that Country, and indeed to the
World in general, are loosened one by one, and I shall soon
have no Attachment left to make me unwilling to follow.

I intended writing when I sent the 1 1 Books, but I lost the
Time in looking for the i2th. I wrote with that; and hope
it came to hand. I therein ask'd your Counsel about my
coming to England. On Reflection, I think I can, from my

1 From the original in the possession of T. Hewson Bradford, M.D. An
auto, draft is in L. C. — ED.

2 Mrs. Stevenson, the mother of Mrs. Hewson. Her last letter to Frank-
lin is dated July 24, 1782 (U. of P.). Upon it Franklin wrote, "this good
woman, my dear Friend, died the first of January following. She was about
my Age." — ED.

12 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1783

Knowledge of your Prudence, foresee what it will be, viz. not
to come too soon, lest it should seem braving and insulting
some who ought to be respected. I shall, therefore, omit
that Journey till I am near going to America, and then just
step over to take Leave of my Friends, and spend a few days
with you. I purpose bringing Ben with me, and perhaps may
leave him under your Care.

At length we are in Peace, God be praised, and long, very
long, may it continue. All Wars are Follies, very expensive,
and very mischievous ones. When will Mankind be con-
vinced of this, and agree to settle their Differences by Ar-
bitration? Were they to do it, even by the Cast of a Dye,
it would be better than by Fighting and destroying each
other.

Spring is coming on, when Travelling will be delightful.
Can you not, when your children are all at School, make a
little Party, and take a Trip hither? I have now a large
House, delightfully situated, in which I could accommodate
you and two or three Friends, and I am but half an Hour's
Drive from Paris.

In looking forward, Twenty-five Years seems a long Period,
but, in looking back, how short ! Could you imagine, that
'tis now full a Quarter of a Century since we were first ac-
quainted? It was in 1757. During the greatest Part of the
Time, I lived in the same House with my dear deceased
Friend, your Mother; of course you and I saw and con-
vers'd with each other much and often. It is to all our
Honours, that in all that time we never had among us the
smallest Misunderstanding. Our Friendship has been all
clear Sunshine, without the least Cloud in its Hemisphere.
Let me conclude by saying to you, what I have had too

1783] TO JOHN SARGENT 13

frequent Occasions to say to my other remaining old Friends,
"The fewer we become, the more let us love one another."
Adieu, and believe me ever yours most affectionately,

B. FRANKLIN.

1391. TO JOHN SARGENT1 (A. p. s.)

Passy, Jan* 27. 1783.

MY DEAR FRIEND,

I received and read the Letter you were so kind as to write
to me the 3d instant, with a great deal of Pleasure, as it in-
form'd me of the Welfare of a Family, whom I have so long
esteem'd and lov'd, and to whom I am under so many Ob-
ligations, which I shall ever remember. Our Correspondence
has been interrupted by that abominable War. I neither
expected Letters from you, nor would I hazard putting you in
Danger by writing any to you. We can now communicate
freely; and next to the Happiness of seeing and embracing
you all again at Halstead, will be that of hearing frequently
of your Health and Prosperity.

Mrs. Sargent and the good Lady, her Mother, are very
kind in wishing me more happy Years. I ought to be satis-
fy'd with those Providence has already been pleas'd to afford
me, being now in my seventy-eighth ; a long Life to pass

1 John Sargent, a merchant in London, and a director of the Bank of
England, was M.P. for Midhurst (1754-1764) and for West Looe, 1765-1768.
He lived at Halstead Place, Kent, which property he bought from Robert
Ralph Foley. He died at Tunbridge Wells, September 20, 1791. Mrs. Sar-
gent died December 5, 1792. Their "eldest son" was John Sargent, M.P.
for Seaford . He married Charlotte, daughter and heiress of Richard
Bettesworth, Esq., of Petworth, Sussex. He died in 1830, having had six sons
and three daughters. He wrote "The Mine, a Dramatic Poem" . — ED.

I4 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1783

without any uncommon Misfortune, the greater part of it in
Health and Vigor of Mind and Body, near Fifty Years of it
in continu'd Possession of the Confidence of my Country, in
public Employments, and enjoying the Esteem and affection-
ate, friendly Regard of many wise and good Men and Women,
in every Country where I have resided. For these Mercies
and Blessings I desire to be thankful to God, whose Pro-
tection I have hitherto had, and I hope for its Continuance
to the End, which now cannot be far distant.

The Account you give me of your Family is pleasing, except
that your eldest Son continues so long unmarried. I hope
he does not intend to live and die in Celibacy. The Wheel of
Life, that has roll'd down to him from Adam without Inter-
ruption, should not stop with him. I would not have one
dead unbearing Branch in the Genealogical Tree of the Sar-
gents. The married State is, after all our Jokes, the happiest,
being conformable to our Natures. Man & Woman have
each of them Qualities & Tempers, in which the other is de-
ficient, and which in Union contribute to the common Felicity.
Single and separate, they are not the compleat human Being ;
they are like the odd Halves of Scissors ; they cannot answer
the End of their Formation.

I am concern'd at the Losses you have suffered by the War.
You are still young and active enough to retrieve them, and
Peace, I hope, will afford the Opportunity.

You mention nothing of my good friend Mrs. Deane, or
her amiable Sisters, whom I sometimes saw with you, nor of
Mr. Chambers. I hope they are all well & happy. Present
my Respects to Mrs. Sargent, whom I love very much, and
believe me ever, my dear Friend, yours most affectionately,

B. FRANKLIN.

1783] TO JOHN COAKLEY LETTSOM 15

1392. TO CHARLES W. F. DUMAS1

Passy, February 17, 1783

DEAR SIR : — It is a long time since I have had the pleasure
of hearing from you. I hope, however, that you and yours
continue well.

The bearers, Mr. President Wheelock and his brother, go to
Holland on a public-spirited design,2 which you will find
recommended by many eminent persons in America.

I beg leave to request for these gentlemen your civilities
and best counsels, as they will be entire strangers in your
country.

With great esteem, I am ever, dear sir, your faithful, humble
servant, B. FRANKLIN.

1393- TO JOHN COAKLEY LETTSOM8
DEAR SIR, Passy, March 6, 1783.

I received your favour of September last. It found me
labouring under a painful disorder, which continued long, and

1 From " The Complete Works of Benjamin Franklin " (Bigelow), Vol. VIII,
p. 258. — ED.

2 To procure money for Dartmouth College. Jonathan Trumbull wrote to
Franklin, November 9, 1782 (A. P. S.), reminding him "of the circumstances
of the first institution of the University of Dartmouth in the State of New
Hampshire, — that the late venerable Dr Wheelock was indefatigable in his
endeavours to civilise and christianize the Indian natives, and to promote
humanity, literature and piety, and for that end sought and obtained bene-
factions in London ; . . . the Doctor's worthy son, the honorable John
Wheelock Esq" is now the President, and in imitation of his father's virtues,
and to bring to perfection the institution so happily begun and prospered, is
intrusted and authorized by its Trustees to sollicite benefactions in France and
Holland to compleat that laudable beneficial & liberal undertaking." — ED.

8 First published by Sparks (Vol. IX, p. 493). Dr. Lettsom (1744-1815),

16 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1783

put me much behind hand in my correspondence. I thank
you for the valuable publications that accompanied it, par-
ticularly those of your own composition, which I read with
pleasure.

Our late excellent friend * was always proposing something
for the good of mankind. You will find instances of this in
one of his letters which I enclose, the only one I can at present
lay my hand on. I have some very valuable ones in America,
if they are not lost in the late confusions. You will be so
kind as to return it to me, after having extracted from it what
you may think proper. Just before I left England, he, in
conjunction with Mr. Barclay and myself, laboured hard to
prevent the coming war, but our endeavours were fruitless.
This transaction is alluded to in the paragraph that begins
at the bottom of the first page. If we may estimate the good-
ness of a man by his disposition to do good, and his constant
endeavours and success in doing it, I can hardly conceive
that a better man has ever existed.

I desire to be considered as a subscriber, if there is a sub-
scription, for two sets of his works,2 which I will pay for on
demand. With great esteem, I am, Sir, &c.

B. FRANKLIN.

an eminent physician, came of a Quaker family of Cheshire origin. He was
one of the founders of the General Dispensary and of the Medical
Society of London, and participated in many other philanthropic projects.
He published a " Life of John Fothergill," his patron, in 1783. — ED.

1 Dr. John Fothergill. — ED.

2 The works of Dr. John Fothergill, edited by J. C. Lettsom, 3 volumes,
8vo, 1783. — ED.

1783] TO ROBERT MORRIS 17

1394. TO ROBERT MORRIS1

Passy, March 7, 1783.

DEAR SIR,

With this I send you a copy of the last contract I made with
this court, respecting the late loan of six millions, the terms
of the loan, and the times of repayment. It was impossible
for me to obtain more, and, indeed, considering the state of
finances and expenses here, I wonder I have obtained so
much. You will see by the enclosed Gazette, that the govern-
ment is obliged to stop payment for a year of its own bills of
exchange, drawn in America and the East Indies ; yet it has
advanced six millions to save the credit of ours. You will, I
am sure, do all in your power to avoid drawing beyond your
funds here ; for I am absolutely assured, that no farther aid
for this year is to be expected ; and it will not be strange, that
they should suffer your bills to take the same fate with their
own.

You will also see in the contract fresh marks of the King's
goodness towards us, in giving so long a term for payment,
and forgiving the first year's interest. I hope the ravings of
a certain mischievous madman 2 here against France and its
ministers, which I hear of every day, will not be regarded in
America, so as to diminish in the least the happy union that
has hitherto subsisted between the two nations, and which is
indeed the solid foundation of our present importance in
Europe. With great esteem, I am ever, dear Sir, &c.

B. FRANKLIN.

1 First published by Sparks (Vol. IX, p. 494). — ED.
* John Adams. — ED.
VOL. ix — c

18 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1783

1395. TO ROBERT R. LIVINGSTON (D. s. w.)

Paris, March 7, 1783.

SIR,

I but this moment hear of this Opportunity, by which I
can only send you a line to acquaint you, that I have con-
cluded the Treaty with Sweden, which was signed on
Wednesday last. You will have a Copy by the first good
Opportunity. It differs very little from the plan sent me ; in
nothing material.1 The English Court is in confusion by
another change of Ministry, Lord Shelburne and his friends
having resigned ; but it is not yet certainly known who will
succeed, tho' Lord North and Mr. Fox are talked of as two,
they being reconciled ! I cannot add, but that I am, with
great Esteem, Sir, &c.

B. FRANKLIN.

P. S. The Change in the Ministry is not supposed of any
Importance respecting our definitive Treaty, which must con-
form to the Preliminaries ; but we shall see.

1396- TO COMTE DE VERGENNES (P. A. E. E. u.)

Passy, March 9, 1783.

SIR, Mr. Barclay, our consul-general, waits upon your
Excellency with a complaint of a gross affront and injury
offered to the Congress of the United States, at L'Orient, by
some English merchants residing at Bourdeaux, to which I

1 This treaty is printed in the public Journals of Congress, Vol. IV, p. 241,
under the date of July 29, 1783. — ED.

1783] TO COMTE DE VERGENNES 19

beg your Excellency's attention, and that you would order
such measures to be taken for redress as the nature of the
case will appear to require. I am, with great respect, sir,
your Excellency's most obedient and most humble servant,

B. FRANKLIN.

1397. TO COMTE DE VERGENNES (P. A. E. E. u.)

Passy, March 16, 1783.

Sra: — I received the letter your Excellency did me the
honour of writing to me respecting the means of promoting
the commerce between France and America. Not being
myself well acquainted with the state of that commerce, I
have endeavoured by conversation with some of our merchants
to obtain information. They complain in general of the
embarrassment it suffers by the numerous internal demands
of duties, searches, etc., that it is subjected to in this country.
Whether these can be well removed, and the system changed,
I will not presume to say. The enclosed letters may, how-
ever, inform your Excellency of some of the circumstances,
and probably Mr. Barclay, our consul, may furnish others.
In general I would only observe that commerce, consisting in
a mutual exchange of the necessities and conveniences of life,
the more free and unrestrained it is, the more it flourishes ; and
the happier are all the nations concerned in it. Most of the
restraints put upon it in different countries seem to have been
the projects of particulars for their private interest, under
pretence of public good. Your Excellency has no doubt seen
the bill now under consideration in the British Parliament
respecting their trade with America, and will consider how

20 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1783

far it may be practicable to give facilities to the future trade
between America and your sugar islands, as well as with
France, similar to those which seem now to be projected by
England. I myself wish most earnestly that France may
reap speedily those great advantages from the American
Commerce, which she has so well merited by her generous
aids in freeing it from its former monopoly ; and every thing
in my power to promote that desirable end may be depended
on. With great respect, I am, sir, your Excellency's most

obedient and most humble servant,

B. FRANKLIN.

1398. TO THE EARL OF BUCHAN1 (L. c.)

Passy, March 17, 1783.

MY LORD,

I received the Letter your Lordship did me the honour
of writing to me the i8th past, and am oblig'd by your kind
Congratulations on the return of Peace, which I hope will be
lasting.

With regard to the Terms on which Lands may be acquired
in America, and the Manner of beginning new Settlements
on them, I cannot give better Information than may be found
in a Book lately printed in London, under some such Title

1 David Steuart Erskitie, eleventh Earl of Buchan [1742-1829], during his
father's life bore the title of Lord Cardross. He made various attempts to
reform the method of electing Scotch representative peers. He founded the
society of antiquaries of Scotland. He was a frequent contributor to The
Gentleman's Magazine. He corresponded with Horace Walpole, who " tried
everything but being rude to break off the intercourse." He claimed Wash-
ington, whom he characterized as " illustrious and excellent " as his " cousin "
and "friend." In 1792 he sent to President Washington a snuff box made
from the tree which sheltered Sir William Wallace. — ED.

1783] TO THE EARL OF BUCHAN 21

as Letters from a Pensilvania Farmer, by Hector St. John.1
The only Encouragements we hold out to Strangers are, a
good Climate, fertile Soil, wholesome Air and Water, plenty
of Provisions and Fuel, good Pay for Labour, kind Neigh-
bours, good Laws, Liberty, and a hearty Welcome ; the rest
depends on a Man's own Industry and Virtue. Lands are
cheap, but they must be bought. All Settlements are under-
taken at private Expence; the Publick contributes nothing
but Defence and Justice. I should not, however, expect
much Emigration from a Country so much drain'd of Men
as yours must have been by the late War; since the more
have left it, the more Room and the more Encouragement
remain for those who staied at home. But this you can best
judge of ; and I have long observed of your People, that their
Sobriety, Frugality, Industry, and Honesty seldom fail of
Success in America, and of procuring them a good Establish-
ment among us.

I do not recollect the Circumstance you are pleas'd to men-
tion, of my having sav'd a citizen of St. Andrew's, by giving
a Turn to his disorder ; and I am curious to know what the
Disorder was, and what the Advice I gave which proved so
salutary.2 With great Regard, I have the honour to be, &c.

B. FRANKLIN.

1 For information concerning Crevecoeur, see infra, No. 1468, p. 147. —
ED.

8 " It was a fever of which the Earl of Buchan, then Lord Cardross, lay ill at
St. Andrews ; and the advice was not to blister, according to the old practice,
and the opinion of the learned Doctor Simpson, brother of the celebrated
geometrician at Glasgow." — W. T. F.

In A. P. S. is the original letter from Buchan to F., to which the above is a
reply. It is dated February 18, 1783, and in it the Earl writes: —

" You were entitled to a civic crown on my account a great many years ago,
when, at the University of St. Andrews, you gave a turn to the career of a

THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1783
1399- TO JONATHAN SHIPLEY (L. c.)

Passy, March 17, 1783.
' • ' ' •

I received with great pleasure my dear and respected
Friend's letter of the 5th Instant, as it informed me of the
Welfare of a Family I so much esteem and love.

The Clamour against the Peace in your Parliament would
alarm me for its duration, if I were not of opinion with you,
that the Attack is rather against the Minister. I am con-
fident, none of the opposition would have made a better
Peace for England, if they had been in his Place ; at least, I
am sure that Lord Stormont, who seems loudest in Railing
at it, is not the Man that could have mended it. My Reasons
I will give you, when I have, what I hope to have, the great
happiness of seeing you once more, and conversing with you.

They talk much of there being no Reciprocity in our Treaty.
They think nothing, then, of our passing over in silence the
Atrocities committed by their Troops, and demanding no
satisfaction for their wanton Burnings and Devastations of
our fair Towns and Countries. They have heretofore confest
the War to be unjust, and nothing is plainer inr Reasoning

disorder, which then threatened my life. You have, since that time, done so
much, and Heaven has at last been pleased to bless and crown your endeavours
with so much success, that civic crowns of a more important nature are due to
you, and certainly await you, if there is any such thing as public gratitude on
the face of the earth.

" Many of my acquaintances in this part of the world seem disposed to seek
for an asylum on the other side of the Atlantic ; and, knowing my steady
attachment and affection to a people, who received my great-grandfather
[Henry Erskine, third Lord Cardross, who emigrated to South Carolina. — ED.]
when an exile, or rather a fugitive from his country, during the administration
of Lauderdale in Scotland, have applied to me for information on the subject
of settling in the United States." — ED.

1783] TO JONATHAN SHIPLEY 23

than that the Mischiefs done in an unjust War should be
repaired. Can Englishmen be so partial to themselves, as
to imagine they have a right to Plunder and destroy as much
as they please, and then, without satisfying for the Injuries
they have done, to have Peace on equal Terms? We were
favourable, and did not demand what Justice entitled us to.
We shall probably be blamed for it by our Constituents;
and I still think it would be the Interest of England volun-
tarily to offer Reparation of those Injuries, and effect it as
much as may be in her power. But this is an interest she
will never see.

Let us now forgive and forget. Let each Country seek its
Advancement in its own internal Advantages of Arts and
Agriculture, not in retarding or preventing the Prosperity of
the other. America will, with God's blessing, become a
great and happy Country ; and England, if she has at length
gained Wisdom, will have gained something more valuable,
and more essential to her Prosperity, than all she has lost;
and will still be a great and respectable Nation. Her great
Disease at present is the number and enormous Salaries and
Emoluments of Office. Avarice and Ambition are strong Pas-
sions, and, separately, act with great Force on the human
Mind ; but, when both are united, and may be gratified in the
same Object, their violence is almost irresistible, and they
hurry Men headlong into Factions and Contentions, destruc-
tive of all good government. As long, therefore, as these great
Emoluments subsist, your Parliament will be a stormy Sea,
and your Public Councils confounded by private Interests.
But it requires much Public Spirit and Virtue to abolish them ;
more perhaps than can now be found in a Nation so long
corrupted. I am, &c. B. FRANKLIN.

24 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1783

1400. TO SIR WILLIAM JONES1

Passy, March 17, 1783.

DEAR FRIEND,

I duly received your obliging letter of November i5th.
You will have since learned how much I was then, and have
been continually engaged in public affairs, and your goodness
will excuse my not having answered it sooner. You an-
nounced your intended marriage with my much respected
friend, Miss Anna Maria, which I assure you gave me great
pleasure, as I cannot conceive a match more likely to be happy,
from the amiable qualities each of you possesses so plentifully.
You mention its taking place, as soon as a prudent attention
to worldly interests would permit. I just now learn from Mr.
Hodgson, that you are appointed to an honourable and profit-
able place in the Indies ; so I expect now soon to hear of the
wedding, and to receive the profile. With the good Bishop's
permission, I will join my blessing with his ; adding my wishes,
that you may return from that corrupting country, with a
great deal of money honestly acquired, and with full as much
virtue as you carry out with you.

The engraving of my medal, which you know was pro-
jected before the peace, is but just finished. None are yet
struck in hard metal, but will be in a few days. In the mean

1 Sir William Jones (1746-1794), the distinguished Oriental scholar, was
appointed in March, 1783, Judge of the high court at Bengal. The appoint-
ment long coveted by him was delayed because of his uncompromising hostility
to the American war. He was knighted March 19, 1783, and in April he was
married to Anna Maria, eldest daughter of Jonathan Shipley, bishop of St.
Asaph. During his residence in India (1783-1794) he founded the Bengal
Asiatic Society, and made numerous contributions to the " Asiatic Researches."
The letter is printed here from Sparks, Vol. IX, p. 500. — ED.

1783] TO JOHN DICKINSON 25

time, having this good opportunity by Mr. Penn, I send you
one of the tpreuves. You will see that I have profited by
some of your ideas, and adopted the mottos you were so kind
as to furnish.

I am at present quite recovered from my late illness, and
flatter myself that I may in the ensuing summer be able to
undertake a trip to England, for the pleasure of seeing once
more my dear friends there, among whom the Bishop and
his family stand foremost in my estimation and affection.
I thank you for your good wishes respecting me. Mine for
your welfare and prosperity are not less earnest and sincere ;
being with great truth, dear Sir, your affectionate friend, &c.

B. FRANKLIN.

1401. TO JOHN DICKINSON * (L. c.)

Passy, March 23* 1783

SIR : — Permit me to congratulate your Excellency on your
advancement to the Presidency of Pennsylvania, wherein I
hope you may find opportunities of doing much good to your
Country, the only Consideration that can make an elevated
situation agreeable to a reasonable Mind.

Mr. Penn,2 son of our late Proprietary, purposes going
over shortly, and will do me the honour of delivering this line
to you. He appears to me, in the short acquaintance I have
had with him, to be an amiable young Gentleman of a prom-
ising valuable Character, and if any Recommendations of
mine to your Civilities and Friendship could be thought
necessary, he should have them fully. But I confine myself

1 Then president of the state of Pennsylvania. — ED.

2 John, son of Thomas Penn. — ED.

26 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1783

here to what regards the Family in general. They think the
late Act of Assembly respecting their Lands has done them
great Injustice. Not being in the Country when it was made,
and being unacquainted with the Reasonings upon which it
was founded, I have only been able to say that I did not
believe any Injustice was intended, and that the offered Com-
pensation had been supposed an equitable one. I have not
heard that the Family was considered as delinquent in the
Affair of the Revolution. But as I find it is imagined that
some Suspicions of their being unfavourable to it have per-
haps prejudiced the Assembly against them, and that the
Warmth of the Times has produced a harder Treatment of
their Interests than would otherwise have been thought of,
I would beg leave to mention it to your Excellency's Con-
sideration, whether it would not be reputable for the Province,
in the cooler Season of Peace to reconsider that Act, and if
the Allowance made to the Family should be found inadequate,
to regulate it according to Equity, since it becomes a Virgin
State to be particularly careful of its Reputation, and to
guard itself not only against committing Injustice, but
against even the suspicion of it.

With great Esteem and Respect I have the honour to be, etc.

B. F.

1402. TO DAVID HARTLEY1

DEAR SIR, Passy» March 23> '783.

I received the letter you did me the honour of writing to
me, requesting a recommendation to America, of Mr. Joshua

1 From "The Private Correspondence of Benjamin Franklin » , Vol.
II, p. 326. — ED.

1783] TO COMTE DE VERGENNES 27

Grigby. I have accordingly written one, and, having an
opportunity the other day, I sent it under cover to Mr. Ben-
jamin Vaughan. The general proclamations you wished for,
suspending or rather putting an end to hostilities, are now
published; so that your " heart is at rest," and mine with it.
You may depend on my joining my hearty endeavours with
yours in " cultivating conciliatory principles between our
two countries"; and I may venture to assure you, that if
your bill for a provisional establishment of the commerce had
passed as at first proposed, a stipulation on our part in the
definitive treaty, to allow reciprocal and equal advantages
and privileges to your subjects, would have been readily
agreed to. With great and sincere esteem, I am ever, &c.

B. FRANKLIN.

1403. TO COMTE DE VERGENNES (P. A. E. E. u.)

(A. P. s.)

Passy, March 24, 1783.
SIR,

I am desirous of printing a translation of the Constitutions
of the United States of America, published at Philadelphia,
in 1781, by order of Congress. Several of these Constitu-
tions have already appeared in the English and American
newspapers ; others have appeared elsewhere ; but there has
never yet been a complete translation of them. That, of
which I have the honour to speak to your Excellency, being
an octavo volume, contains the different Constitutions of the
United States, their treaty with France, and no foreign matter.
I have made arrangements for this purpose with M. Pierres,
who is ready to commence the impression, and I hope that
your Excellency will give your approbation.

28 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1783

M. Pierres will need a permit from the Keeper of the Seals
for printing and selling this work, after having furnished me
with the number of copies agreed upon. As I strongly desire,
that this translation may appear at an early day, I shall feel
under great obligations to your Excellency, if you will have
the goodness to request the Keeper of the Seals to send the
order without delay; and, should the formalities required for
the purpose demand any considerable time, to request him
to authorize by letter M. Pierres to proceed with the work.

I have the honour to be, &c.

B. FRANKLIN.

1404. TO EMMANUEL DE ROHAN1

Passy April 6, 1783.

MY LORD,

I have the honour to address to your Eminent Highness
the medal, which I have lately had struck.2 It is a homage
of gratitude, my Lord, which is due to the interest you have
taken in our cause ; and we no less owe it to your virtues, and
to your Eminent Highness's wise administration of govern-
ment.

Permit me, my Lord, to demand your protection for such
of our citizens as circumstances may lead to your ports.
I hope that your Eminent Highness will be pleased to grant
it to them, and kindly receive the assurances of the pro-
found respect with which I am, my Lord, &c.

B. FRANKLIN.

1 Grand master of the Order of St. John of Jerusalem, and ruler of Malta
(1775-1797)- — ED.

2 See letter to R. R. Livingston, March 4, 1782. -—ED.

1783] TO M. ROSENCRONE 29

1405. TO M. ROSENCRONE1 (L. c.)

Passy, April 15, 1783.

SIR,

M. de Walterstorff2 has communicated to me a Letter
from your Excellency to him which affords me great Pleasure,
as it expresses in clear and strong Terms the good Dis-
position of your Court to form Connections of Friendship and
Commerce with the United States of America. I am confi-
dent, that the same good Disposition will be found in the
Congress; and, having acquainted that respectable Body
with the Purport of your Letter, I expect a Commission will
soon be sent, appointing some Person in Europe to enter into
a Treaty with his Majesty the King of Denmark, for the
Purposes desired.

In the mean time, to prepare and forward the Business
as much as may be, I send, for your Excellency's Considera-
tion, such a Sketch as you mention, form'd on the Base of
our Treaty with Holland, on which I shall be glad to receive
your Excellency's Sentiments. And I hope that this Trans-
action, when compleated, may be the means of producing
and securing a long and happy Friendship between our two
Nations.

To smooth the Way for obtaining this desirable End,
as well as to comply with my Duty, it becomes necessary for
me on this Occasion to mention to your Excellency the
Affair of our three Prizes, which, having during the War
entered Bergen as a neutral and friendly Port, where they

1 Minister of foreign affairs at Copenhagen. — ED.

8 See the following letter, to R. R. Livingston, April 15, 1783. — ED.

30 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1783

might repair the Damages they had suffered, and procure
Provisions, were, by an order of your Predecessor in the Office
you so honourably fill, violently seized and delivered to our
Enemies. I am inclined to think it was a hasty Act, pro-
cured by the importunitys and Misrepresentations of the
British Minister, and that your Court could not, on reflection,
approve of it. But the Injury was done, and I flatter myself
your Excellency will think with me, that it ought to be re-
paired. The Means and Manner I beg leave to recommend to
your Consideration, and am, with great Respect, Sir, &c.

B. FRANKLIN.

1406. TO ROBERT R. LIVINGSTON (L. c.)

Passy, April 15, 1783.

SIR,

You complain sometimes of not hearing from us. It is
now near three Months since any of us have heard from
America. I think our last Letters came with General de
Rochambeau. There is now a Project under Consideration
for establishing Monthly Packet Boats between France and
New York, which I hope will be carried into Execution ; our
Correspondences then may be more regular and frequent.

I send herewith another Copy of the Treaty concluded with
Sweden. I hope, however, that you will have received the
former, and that the Ratification is forwarded. The King,
as the Ambassador informs me, is now employ'd in exam-
ining the Duties payable in his Ports, with a View of lowering
them in favour of America, and thereby encouraging and
facilitating our mutual Commerce.

1783] TO ROBERT JR. LIVINGSTON 31

M. de Walterstorff Chambellan du Roy de Dannemarck,
formerly Chief Justice of the Danish West India Islands,
was last year at Paris, where I had some Acquaintance with
him, and he is now return'd hither. The Newspapers have
mention'd him as intended to be sent Minister from his Court
to Congress; but he tells me no such Appointment has yet
been made. He assures me, however, that the King has a
strong Desire to have a Treaty of Friendship and Commerce
with the United States; and he has communicated to me a
Letter, which he received from M. Rosencrone, the Minister
for Foreign Affairs, expressing that Disposition. I enclose
a Copy of the Letter; and, if the Congress shall approve of
entring into such a Treaty with the King of Denmark, of
which I told M. de Walterstorff I made no doubt, they will
send to me, or whom else they shall think proper, the necessary
Powers and Instructions for that purpose. In the mean
time, to keep the Business in Train, I have sent to that Min-
ister, for his Consideration, a Translation of the Plan, mutatis
mutandis, which I receiv'd from Congress for a Treaty with
Sweden, accompanied by a Letter, of which likewise I enclose
a Copy. I think it would be well to make it one of the In-
structions to whoever is commission'd for the Treaty, that he
previously procure Satisfaction for the Prizes mention'd in
my Letter.

The Definitive Treaties have met with great Delays, partly
by the Tardiness of the Dutch, but principally by the Dis-
tractions in the Court of England, where, for six or seven
Weeks, there was properly no Ministry, nor any Business
effected. They have at last settled a Ministry, but of such a
Composition as does not promise to be lasting. The Papers
will inform you who they are. It is now said, that Mr.

32 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1783

Oswald, who sign'd the Preliminaries, is not to return here,
but that Mr. David Hartley comes in his stead to settle the
definitive. A Congress is also talk'd of, and that some use
is therein to be made of the Mediation formerly proposed
of the Imperial Courts. Mr. Hartley is an old Friend of mine,
and a strong Lover of Peace, so that I hope we shall not have
much difficult Discussion with him; but I could have been
content to have finish'd with Mr. Oswald, whom we always
found very reasonable.

Mr. Laurens, having left Bath, mended in his Health, is
daily expected at Paris, where Messrs. Jay and Adams still
continue. Mr. Jefferson has not yet arriv'd, nor the Romulus,
in which Ship I am told he was to have taken his Passage.
I have been the more impatient of this Delay, from the Ex-
pectation given me of full Letters by him. It is extraordinary,
that we should be so long without any Arrivals from America
in any Port of Europe. We have as yet heard nothing of the
Reception of the preliminary Articles in America, tho' it is
now nearly 5 Months since they were signed. Barney,
indeed, did not get aVay from hence before the Middle of
January, but Copies went by other Ships long before him;
he waited some time for the Money he carried, and after-
wards was detained by violent contrary Winds. He had a
Passport from England, and I hope arriv'd safe ; tho' we have
been in some Pain for him, on Ace* of a Storm soon after he
sail'd.

The English Merchants have shown great Eagerness to
reassume their Commerce with America ; but apprehending
that our Laws, prohibiting that Commerce, would not be
repeal'd till England had set the Example by repealing theirs,
the Number of Vessels they had loaded with Goods have been

1783] TO ROBERT R. LIVINGSTON 33

detain'd in Port, while the Parliament have been debating
on the Repealing Bill, which has been alter'd two or three
times, and is not yet agreed upon. It was at first propos'd
to give us equal Privileges in Trade with their own Subjects,
repealing thereby, with respect to us, so much of their Navi-
gation Act, as regards Foreign Nations. But that Plan
seems to be laid aside, and what will finally be done in the
Affair is yet uncertain.

There is not a Port in France, and few in Europe, from
which I have not receiv'd several Applications of Persons
desiring to be appointed Consuls for America. They gen-
erally offer to execute the Office for the Honour of it, with-
out Salary. I suppose the Congress will wait to see what
Course the Commerce will take, and in what Places it will fix
itself, in order to find where Consuls will be necessary, before
any Appointments are made, and perhaps it will then be
thought best to send some of our own People. If they are
not allow'd to Trade, there must be a great Expence for
Salaries. If they may trade, and are Americans, the Fortunes
they make will mostly settle at last in our own Country. The
Agreement I was to make here respecting Consuls, has not
yet been concluded. The Article of Trading is important.
I think it would be well to reconsider it.

I have caused to be struck here the Medal, which I for-
merly mention'd to you, the Design of which you seem'd to
approve. I inclose one of them in Silver, for the President
of Congress, and one in Copper for yourself ; the Impression
on Copper is thought to appear best, and you will soon
receive a Number for the Members. I have presented one
to the King, and another to the Queen, both in Gold, and
one in Silver to each of the Ministers, as a monumental

VOL. IT — D

34 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1783

Acknowledgment, which may go down to future Ages, of the
Obligations we are under to this Nation. It is mighty well
received, and gives general Pleasure. If the Congress ap-
prove of it, as I hope they will, I may add something on the
Die (for those to be struck hereafter) to show that it was done
by their Order, which I could not venture to do till I had
Authority for it.

A multitude of People are continually applying to me
personally, and by Letters, for Information respecting the
means of transporting themselves, Families, and Fortunes
to America. I give no Encouragement to any of the King's
subjects, as I think it would not be right in me to do it with-
out their Sovereign's approbation; and, indeed, few offer
from France but Persons of irregular Conduct and desperate
Circumstances, whom we had better be without ; but I think
there will be great Emigrations from England, Ireland, and
Germany. There is a great Contest among the Ports, which
of them shall be of those to be declared FreeioT the American
Trade. Many applications are made to me to interest myself
in the behalf of all of them; but having no Instructions on
that head, and thinking it a Matter more properly belonging
to the Consul, I have done nothing in it.

I have continu'd to send you the English Papers. You
will often see Falshoods in them respecting what I say and
do and write, &c. You know those Papers too well to make
any Contradiction of such Stuff necessary from me.

Mr. Barclay is often ill, and I am afraid the Settlement
of our Accounts will be, in his Hands, a long Operation.
I shall be impatient at being detain'd here on that Score
after the Arrival of my Successor. Would it not be well to
join Mr. Ridley with Mr. Barclay for that Service? He re-

1783] INTRODUCTION OF PROFESSOR MARTER 35

sides in Paris, and seems active in Business. I know not,
indeed, whether he would undertake it, but wish he may.

The Finances here are embarrass'd, and a new loan is
propos'd by way of Lottery, in which, it is said by some
Calculators, the King will pay at the Rate of 7 per cent.
I mention this to furnish you with a fresh convincing Proof
against Cavillers of the King's Generosity towards us, in lend-
ing us Six Millions this year at 5 per cent, and of his con-
cern for our Credit, in saving by that Sum the Honour of
Mr. Morris's Bills, while those drawn by his own Officers
abroad have their Payment suspended for a Year after they
become due. You have been told, that France might help
us more liberally if she would. This last Transaction is a
Demonstration of the contrary.

Please to show these last Paragraphs to Mr. Morris, to
whom I cannot now write, the Notice of this Ship being
short ; but it is less necessary, as Mr. Grand writes him fully.

With great Esteem, &c.

B. FRANKLIN.
P. S. Mr. Laurens is just arrived.

1407. INTRODUCTION OF PROFESSOR MARTER

(A. P. S.)
Passy, April 22, 1783.

SIR,

M. Marter, Professor of Natural History in the Service of
the Emperor, being appointed to make a Collection of Plants
and Animals from the four Quarters of the World, for his
Imperial Majesty's Botanic Gardens and Menagerie, proposes
to begin his Operations by a Journey thro* the Countries
under the Government of the United States of America. He

36 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1783

is strongly recommended to me by his Excellency the Am-
bassador from that Court ; and I take leave to recommend
him not only to the Civilities you are pleas'd in bestowing on
Strangers of Merit but to all the Assistances and Facilities
your Station & the Influence attending it, may enable you
to afford him in the Execution of his Commission, being
persuaded that your Zeal for the Increase of Useful^ Science,
as well as the Respect due to his August Employer, will in-
duce you to render Mr. Marter such Services with Pleasure.
I have the honour to be very respectfully,

Sir,

Your [Excellency's]
15 Copies [B. FRANKLIN.]

1408. TO MRS. MARY HEWSON1 (p. c.)

Passy, April 26, 1783.

MY DEAR FRIEND,

I received in its time your kind Letter of Feb. 22. I am
sensible of the Prudence of your Advice respecting my coming
to England, and shall follow it. Accept my Thanks for that,
and for your kind Invitation to Cheam, when I do come ; but
the little left of Life at my Age will, perhaps, hurry me home,
as soon as I can be quit of my Employment here. I should,
indeed, have great Pleasure in seeing you, and in being some
time with you and your little Family. I cannot have all I
wish.

Mr. Williams is now here with his Family. I shall men-
tion to him his not answering your Letter. We talk'd yester-
day of you, and of his Friend Dolly, whom I have not forgotten,

1 From the original in the possession of T. Hewson Bradford, M.D. — ED.

1783] TO COMTE DE VERGENNES 37

as she supposes. He express'd the highest Esteem and Re-
gard for you both. My Love to her when you see her.
I send you some more of the little Books, and am ever, my

dear Friend, yours most affectionately,

B. FRANKLIN.

1409. TO ROBERT R. LIVINGSTON (D. s. w.)

Passy, April 27, 1783.
SIR,

The Count del Veome, an Italian Nobleman of great dis-
tinction, does me the honour to be the Bearer of this. I have
not the Satisfaction to be personally acquainted with this
Gentleman, but am much solicited by some of my particular
friends, to whom his Merits and Character are known, to
afford him this Introduction to you. He is, I understand, a
great Traveller, and his view in going to America is merely
to see the Country and its great Men. I pray you will show
him every Civility, and afford him that Counsel, which as a
Stranger he may stand in need of. With great respect, I am,
&c. B. FRANKLIN.

1410. TO COMTE DE VERGENNES (P. A. E. E. u.)

Passy, May 4, 1783.

SIR : — I have considered the proposal of M. le Marq. de
Se*gur to cede to the Congress the military stores left by M.
de Rochambeau at Baltimore,1 and I am of opinion that it is

1 « A la reception de cette lettre, vous prendres les ordres du General
Washington pour les dispositions qui devront preceder 1'embarquemont de la

38 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1783

probable a part of them may be acceptable, if not the whole,
and that possibly some of the different States may be inclined
to purchase what the Congress should not want. But as I am
ignorant of what may or may not be wanted by the Congress,
and have no orders to purchase or procure more stores than
have already been provided here, I can enter into no agree-
ment respecting them. If a power be'sent to the ambassador
or consul to treat with the Congress or the separate States
concerning them, it may be the most probable means of dis-
posing of them to advantage.

I am with respect, sir, your Excellency's most obedient and
humble servant,

B. FRANKLIN.

1411. TO COMTE DE VERGENNES (P. A. E. E. u.)

Passy, May 5, 1783.

SIR : — I have the honour to communicate to your Excel-
lency herewith three articles proposed between Mr. Hartley
and the American Commissioners respecting commerce. He
has sent them to his court for their approbation. I doubt
their obtaining it. But we shall see.

I am, with respect, sir, your Excellency's most obedient
and most humble servant,

B. FRANKLIN.

legion, celui des detachement que vous commandez, de la grosse artillerie
laissee a Baltimore et enfin des soldats malades qui n'ont pu suivre les regi-
ments dontils font partie."— Segur to Lauzun, Jan. 23, 1783. — ED.

1783] TO COMTE DE VERGENNES 39

1412. TO COMTE DE VERGENNES (P. A. E. E. u.)

Passy, May 5, 1783.

SIR,

It was my intention to pay my devoirs at Versailles to-
morrow. I thank your Excellency, nevertheless, for your
kind admonition.1 I omitted two of the last three days, from
a mistaken apprehension, that, being holidays, there would
be no court. Mr. Laurens and Mr. Jay are both invalids;
and, since my last severe fit of the gout, my legs have con-
tinued so weak, that I am hardly able to keep pace with the
ministers who walk fast, especially in going up and down
stairs.

I beg you to be assured, that whatever deficiency there may
be of strength, there is none of respect in, Sir, &c.

B. FRANKLIN.

1 In a letter dated May 5, 1783 (to which the above letter is a reply) Ver-
gennes wrote : —

" I have received the two letters of yesterday and to-day, which you have
done me the honour to write to me, and a copy of the three articles discussed
between the Commissioners of the United States and Mr. Hartley. You are
aware, that I shall want a sufficient time to examine them before submitting to
you the observations, which may relate to our reciprocal interests. Receive,
in the mean time, my sincere thanks for this communication.

M I hope to have the honour of seeing you to-morrow at Versailles. I trust
you will be able to be present with the foreign ministers. It is observed, that
the Commissioners from the United States rarely show themselves here, and
inferences are drawn from it, which I am sure their constituents would dis-
avow, if they had a knowledge of them. I have the honour to be, &c.

" DE VERGENNES." — ED.

40 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1783

1413. TO DAVID HARTLEY (p. R. o.)

Passy, May 8, 1783.

DEAR FRIEND,

I send you enclosed the copies you desired of the papers I
read to you yesterday.1 I should be happy if I could see,
before I die, the proposed improvement of the law of nations
established. The miseries of mankind would be diminished
by it, and the happiness of millions secured and promoted. If
the practice of privateering could be profitable to any civilized
nation, it might be so to us Americans ; since we are so situ-
ated on the globe, as that the rich commerce of Europe with
the West Indies, consisting of manufactures, sugars, &c., is
obliged to pass before our doors, which enables us to make
short and cheap cruises, while our own commerce is in such
bulky, low-priced articles, as that ten of our ships taken by
you are not equal in value to one of yours, and you must come
far from home, at a great expense, to look for them. I hope,
therefore, that this proposition, if made by us, will appear
in its true light, as having humanity only for its motive.
I do not wish to see a new Barbary rising in America, and
our long extended coast occupied by piratical states. I fear,
lest our privateering success in the two last wars should
already have given our people too strong a relish for that most
mischievous kind of gaming, mixed blood ; and, if a stop is
not now put to the practice, mankind may hereafter be more
plagued with American corsairs, than they have been and
are with the Turkish. Try, my friend, what you can do,
in procuring for your nation the glory of being, though the

1 See the Article about privateering, to R. Oswald, January 14, 1783. — ED.

1783] TO JAN INGENHOUSZ 41

greatest naval power, the first who voluntarily relinquished
the advantage that power seems to give them, of plundering
others, and thereby impeding the mutual communications
among men of the gifts of God, and rendering miserable mul-
titudes of merchants and their families, artisans, and culti-
vators of the earth, the most peaceable and innocent part of
the human species. With great esteem and affection, I am

ever, my dear friend, yours most sincerely,

B. FRANKLIN.

1414. TO JAN INGENHOUSZ (L. c.)

Passy, May 16, 1783.

DEAR FRIEND : — I have before me your three Favours of
Feb 26, April 8 and 29,* the last delivered to me yesterday by
Mr. Robertson, to whom I shall show the Respect due to
your Recommendation.3 I am asham'd of being so long in
Arrear in my Correspondence with you, but I have too much
Business. I will now endeavour to answer your Letters,
and hope I may be able to do it without Interruption.

I never received the Letter you mention, wherein you asked
my leave to dedicate your Book to me. I should immediately
have given my Consent, esteeming it a great honour to be so
remembred by you, and handed down to Posterity as having
your Friendship. The Cast of your Profile came safe to hand,

1 These letters are all in A. P. S. — ED.

2 " The bearer of this, Mr. James Robertson, being arrived at Paris from a
tour thro Italie, after having spent some time in Vienna, where he followed my
experiments and became one of my friends, has begged the favour of me to
send him an introductory letter to you." — Ingenhousz to Franklin, April 29,
1783. — ED.

42 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1783

and gives me Pleasure, as I think it very like. Pray what is
the Composition?

My Journey to Italy, and thence to Vienna, is yet an Un-
certainty. I thank you however for your kind Advice re-
specting the Conduct of it.1

I have long since been tired of the Acquaintance and cor-
respondence of Mr. V. ; 2 having but a small Remnant left of
Life, I cannot afford to attend to his endless Discourse and
numerous long Letters, and visionary Projects. He wants
to be employed in our Affairs, but he manages his own so
badly that one can have but little Confidence in his Prudence.
I pity him however, tho' I see no possible means of serving
him.

I thank you for the friendly Congratulations on the Peace,
and Cautions respecting our future Conduct ; they are good
and wise.3

Mr. Wharton's Treatment of you gives me pain. He
never writes to me. I forget whether I have already sent you
the Extract of his Letter to Dr. Bancroft, so I enclose a
Copy. I enclose also a part of a Philadelphia Newspaper,
by which you will see that your Name and Writings are
already known in our Country. With regard to your Prop-

1 Ingenhousz advised Franklin to go to Italy through Austria " because
from Vienna to the Venetian territory you have not a single difficult or dan-
gerous road." He also advised a broad Italian carriage, — " the French car-
riages are in general too narrow, and the English too low." — ED.

2 Rudolph Valltravers, an impecunious gentleman of Vienna who wrote
interminable letters to Franklin, and constantly solicited his aid and favour in
obtaining some position in Europe or America. — ED.

3 " Now you are a free and independent people, you ought to be mindfull of
the old proverb, felix quam faciunt aliena pericula cautent ! and prevent
disunion among yourselves. You have had open enemies, now you will have
inobservable ones." — Ingenhousz, Feb. 26, 1783. — ED.

1783] TO JAN INGENHOUSZ 43

erty in the Public Funds, I have no doubt of its being secure
according to the Value it had when it was plac'd there, but
I can say nothing as to the particulars of its Situation or
Amount; Mr. Williams can better inform you. I have re-
quested him to do it.

It is long since I have seen M. Le Begue.1 He is much
in the Country. I have heard nothing of the Printing of
your Book.

Your Experiment of burning the Wire has been made here
with the greatest Success. My grandson had it try'd at Mr.
Charles' Lecture, where it gave great Satisfaction & was much
admir'd.

I have not yet found Leisure to explain the Fireplace, but
hope for it, when I am quit of my present Station.

I have been, as you know, so little in America for these last
25 Years, that I am unqualified to answer the Request of Mr.
Veinbrenner concerning the Names and Solidity of Houses
there.2

A new Set of Merchants have grown up into Business, of
whom I know nothing ; and the Circumstances of the old ones
whom I formerly knew may have been much altered by Time,
or by the War. It is besides, an invidious & dangerous
Thing for me to give such a distinguishing List, if I were able
to do it. My best Advice to your Commercial People is, to
send over a discreet, intelligent Person, with instructions to

1 Achille-Guillaume le Begue de Presles (1735-1807), Rousseau's physician
and friend, had been requested by Ingenhousz to superintend the publication
of his book in Paris, but he had not replied for a long time to any of Ingen-
housz's letters. — ED.

2 M. Veinbrenner, by order of Prince Kaunitz, first minister of state, had
written to Franklin for information about " the solidity of merchants in
America." — ED.

44 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1783

travel thro' the Country, observe the Nature of the Commerce,
find out what of your Commodities are wanted there, and in
what Quantities & Proportions ; & what of the Produce of the
Country can be purchased to make advantageous Returns.
Such a Man on the Spot may obtain better Informations of
Characters than I can possibly give, and may make the
Connections desired with those that he finds to merit Con-
fidence. If your People should think fit to take this Step, I
will give Letters of Recommendation introductory of the
Person, and which may be useful to their Design. Please
to acquaint Mr. Veinbrenner of this, presenting my respects.
I have already given such Letters at [mutilated] have received
no intimation, except from you, that a Proposition for such a
Treaty would be acceptable to His Imperial Majesty.1 I
shall however venture to propose it to the Ambassador when
I request his forwarding to you this Letter. The Commodi-
ties you mention as Productions of the Emperor's Dominions
are all wanted in America, and will sell there to Advantage.2

I will send you another Piece of the Soap you mention
when I can have a good Opportunity. I now send you one
of the Medals I have caused to be struck here, which has the
good Luck to be much approved. [Mutilated, part of draft
cut off.]

With regard to the Statuary 8 you mention, I hardly think

1 A commercial treaty. — ED.

2 " The articles of exportation from this country are chiefly copper, steel,
mercury, and glass as fine as English. Hungarian wines begin also to be an
object. From the low countries the chief exporting objects are lace and lin-
nens."— Ingenhousz, April 8, 1783. — ED.

8 Giuseppi Ceracchi of Rome. Count Lacy, " the greatest favorite of the
Emperour," requested Ingenhousz to ask Franklin whether Ceracchi " should
goe over to America in expectation of being employed in erecting or making
marmor and such like monuments. . . . Marechal Lacy added, that, in case

1783] TO JAN INGENHOUSZ 45

it can be worth his while at present to go to America hi Ex-
pectation of being employ'd there. Private Persons are not
rich enough to encourage sufficiently the fine Arts ; and
therefore our Geniuses all go to Europe. In England at
present, the best History Painter, West; the best Portrait
Painter, Copley; and the best Landscape Painter, Taylor,
at Bath, are all Americans. And the Public being burthen'd
by its War Debts, will certainly think of paying them before
it goes into the Expence of Marble Monuments. He might,
indeed, as you hint, be easily paid in Land, but Land will
produce him nothing without Labour ; and he and his Work-
men must [incomplete].

after a few years such an Artist may find Employment;
and possibly we may discover a white Marble.

I am glad you have made the experiments you mention,
and with success. You will find that the holes are not made
by the impulse of the fluid moving in certain directions,
but by circumstances of explosion of parts of the matter;
and I still think my explanation of the holes in the vane
probable, viz. that it was the explosion of tin against parts
of the copper plate that were almost in a state of fusion, and
therefore easily burst through either on one side or the other,
as it happened. The bursting of the twelve bottles all at
once, I take to be owing to small bubbles in the substance
of the glass, or grains of sand, into which a quantity of the
electric fluid had been forced and compressed while the bottles

there was a prospect of finding employment there, and money should be scarce,
gouvernment could grant him land." — Ingenhousz, April 29, 1 783. This is the
only reference made by Franklin to Ceracchi, who has long been credited with
the making of the bust of Franklin which is now known to have been the
work of Caffieri. — ED.

46 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1783

were charging; and when the pressure was suddenly taken
off by discharging the bottles, that confined portion by its
elastic force expanding caused the breach. My reasons for
thinking, that the charge did not pass by those holes you will
find in a former letter; and I think you will always find, that
the coating within and without is forced both ways by the

explosion of these bubbles.

B. FRANKLIN.

141 S. RECOMMENDATION OF A GALLEY SLAVE

(A. P. S.)
Passy, May 22. 1783

SIR,

The Bearer Pierre Andre* Gargaz is Author of a very
humane Project for establishing a perpetual Peace. This
has interested me much in his Behalf. He appears to me a
very honest sensible Man, & worthy of better Fortune: —
For tho' his Project may appear in some respects chimerical,
there is Merit hi so good an Intention. He has serv'd faith-
fully 20 Years as a Galley-Slave, and now requests Letters
of Rehabilitation, that he may enjoy for the Rest of his Life
the Douceurs that State would be attended with: If this
Request of his is not improper, & you can assist him in pro-
curing such Letters You will do me a most sensible Pleasure.
He will show you authentic Certificates of his good Conduct.
With great Esteem, I have the honour to be,

Sir,

[B. FRANKLIN.]

[To whom it may Concern.]

1783] TO PHILIPPE-DENIS PIERRES 47

1416. TO COMTE DE VERGENNES (p. A. E. E. u.)

Passy, May 23, 1783

SIR : — I beg leave to recommend earnestly to your Ex-
cellency's attention the enclosed petition and papers from
Mr. Price, an honest, worthy American, who was to my knowl-
edge very serviceable to our army in Canada, and much
esteemed by the Congress. I shall be very thankful if you
can procure for him the order he desires. With great respect,
I am, sir, your Excellency's most obedient and most humble
servant, B. FRANKLIN.

1417. TO COMTE DE VERGENNES (p. A. E. E. u.)

Passy, June 3, 1783

SIR : — Having long known Mr. Williams to be a very
just man in all his transactions, I hope the favour he re-
quests of a surse'ance may be granted to him, being con-
fident that it will be employed to the complete satisfaction
of his creditors. I therefore earnestly pray your Excellency
to obtain it for him. With great respect, I am, sir, your
Excellency's most obedient and most humble servant,

B. FRANKLIN.

1418. TO PHILIPPE-DENIS PIERRES1 (A. p. s.)
gm Passy, June 10, 1783.

I received the Exemplaire of the Constitutions. I in-
tended to have waited on M. le Garde des Sceaux yesterday,

1 This celebrated printer of Versailles, a member of the Academies of Dijon,

48 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1783

at Versailles, but was prevented. I shall write to him to-day.
The Ratification of the Swedish Treaty is arrived, so that
there is no farther Obstruction to the Publication. I desire
to have 50 of the 8vos bound in Calf and letter'd, and 50
half bound, that is, between Pasteboards with a Sheepskin
Back, and Letter'd, but not cut. I desire also 6 of the 4tos
copies bound in Morocco. I am, with great esteem, Sir, &c.

B. FRANKLIN.1

Lyons, Rouen, and Orleans, died at Dijon, February 28, 1808, at the age of
sixty-eight. At Franklin's request he instructed B. F. Bache in the principles
of typography. He left an unfinished work, " L'Art de 1'Imprimerie." — ED.
1 Pierres wrote to Franklin, June 27, 1783 (A. P. S.), as follows : —

" MONSIEUR,

" Vous devez 8tre etonne sans doute de ne point recevoir de ma part les
exemplaires des Constitutions de 1'Amerique que je vous ai promis le 20 du
courant, jour que j'ai eu 1'honneur de vous voir.

" En vous quittant j'ai etc chez M. de Neville. On m'a montre le nouvel
embargo mis sur cet ouvrage; c'est une note que M. le Garde des Sceaux a
ecrite a cote de la permission, la voici : * a condition que 1'ouvrage passera
encore sous les yeux de M. le Comte de Vergennes avant d'Stre distribu6.'
On m'a dit qu'il etoit a propos que j'en envoyasse un exemplaire a M. le Comte
de Vergennes, c'est ce que j'ai fait en rentrant chez moi : j'y ai joint la lettre
dont je vous envoie copie. J'attends la reponse de ce Ministre pour la faire
passer aussitfit a M. le Garde des Sceaux qui 1'enverra a M. de Neville, pour
enfin apr£s tout cela m'autoriser a faire la distribution.

" Vous voyez, Monsieur, que Paris ne ressemble point du tout a Philadel-
phie et qui'il nous faudrait ici un second Franklin, s'il pouvoit en exister deux,
pour nous delivrer de toutes ces entraves, entraves que je ne puis ni ne dois con-
damner, puisque je suis citoyen.

" Cela ne m'emp&che pas, Monsieur, de faire en attendant relier et brocher
et je serois en etat actuellement de vous livrer tous vos exemplaires, si les
reglements auxquels je suis assujetti m'en donnoient la liberte. Aussitdt que
je serai de"gage de toutes les entraves que je viens de vous detailler, j'aurai
Vhonneur de vous en faire part.

" Je suis avec un profond respect, Monsieur,

" Votre tres humble et
" tres obeissant serviteur
(Signed) " PIERRES."

— ED.

1783] TO ROBERT R. LIVINGSTON' 49

1419. TO ROBERT R. LIVINGSTON (D. s. w.)

Passy, June 12, 1783.
SIR,

I wrote to you fully by a vessel from Nantes, which I hope
will reach you before this. If not, this may inform you,
that the ratification of the treaty with Sweden is come, and
ready to be exchanged when I shall receive that from Con-
gress; that the treaty with Denmark is going on, and will
probably be ready before the commission for signing it
arrives from Congress. It is on the plan of that proposed
by Congress for Sweden.

Portugal has likewise proposed to treat with us, and the
ambassador has earnestly urged me to give him a plan for
the consideration of his court, which I have accordingly
done, and he has forwarded it. The Congress will send com-
missions and instructions for concluding these treaties to
whom they may think proper ; it is only upon the old authority,
given, by a resolution, to myself with Messrs. Deane and
Lee, to treat with any European powers, that I have ven-
tured to begin these treaties in consequence of overtures from
those crowns.

The definitive treaty with England is not yet concluded,
their ministry being unsettled in their minds as to the terms
of the commercial part; nor is any other definitive treaty
yet completed here, nor even the preliminaries signed of
one between England and Holland. It is now five months
since we have had a line from you, the last being dated the
i3th of January; of course we know nothing of the reception

VOL. IX — E

So THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1783

of the Preliminary Articles, or the opinion of Congress
respecting them. We hoped to receive before this time such
instructions as might have been thought proper to be sent
to us for rendering more perfect the definitive treaty. We
know nothing of what has been approved or disapproved.
We are totally in the dark, and therefore, less pressing to
conclude, being still (as we have long been) in daily expecta-
tion of hearing from you. By chance only, we learn that
Barney is arrived, by whom went the despatches of the Com-
missioners, and a considerable sum of money. No acknowl-
edgment of the receipt of that money is yet come to hand,
either to me or M. Grand. I make no doubt that both you
and Mr. Morris have written, and I cannot imagine what
has become of your letters. With great esteem, &c.

B. FRANKLIN.

P. S. I beg leave to recommend to your civilities the
bearer of this, Dr. Bancroft, whom you will find a very in-
telligent, sensible man, well acquainted with the state of
affairs here, and who has heretofore been employed in the
service of Congress. I have long known him, and esteem
him highly.

1420. TO PRINCE DES DEUXPONTS (A. p. s.)

June 14 1783

WITHOUT Information what are the Productions & Manu-
factures of the Palatinate & of Bavaria and their Prices of
which M1 Franklin is totally ignorant, it is impossible for
him to say what of them will be proper for a Commerce with

1783] TO PRINCE DBS DEUX FONTS 51

the United States of America. He can only answer in gen-
eral, that America purchases from Europe all kinds of
Woolens & Linnens warp & fine proper for Clothing of
Men & Women ; with a variety of Iron & Steele Manufactures.
And she pays in Tobacco, Rice, Indigo, Bills of Exchange or
Money. If the Electorates above mentioned, can furnish
any of those Manufactures cheaper than France, Holland, or
England, they may thereby obtain a Share of the American
Commerce. But it will be prudent for the Merchants to
send a discreet intelligent Man with a small Cargo of Samples
of all their kinds of Goods, in order to obtain a thorough
Knowledge of the Nature of the Commerce in that Country,
and of the Kinds of Goods & proportions of their Quanti-
ties, that are most in demand there, before they hazard the
making of large Adventures. — There is no doubt but that
the Commerce of the German States will be favourably re-
ceiv'd in America, where a great many People of that Nation
are established. MT F. will give it all the Encouragement
that can be expected of him; but he cannot take upon him
to point out and name as he has been desired the most Solid
Houses of Commerce there, having been long absent from
that Country, and the War having probably made a Change
in the Circumstances of many.1

1 The above letter was written by Franklin in lead pencil upon the back of
the following note addressed to him by M. le Prince des Deuxponts : —

" M. le Prince des Deuxponts s'est deja adresse a Monsieur Franklin pour
savoir si PElectorat Palatin et le Duche de Baviere pourroient entrer en liaison
de commerce avec les treize Etats unis de 1'Amerique. Mais n'en ayant obtenu
qu'une reponse trop vague pour £tre transmise \ ses commettans, il le prie
tres instamment de vouloir bien lui specifier par ecrit quelles seroient les pro-
ductions et les objets d'industrie qui pourroient le plus aisement donner de la
consistance a ce projet et le faire prosperer. II insiste sur ,cette reponse
parce qu'on la lui demande et il se flatte que Monsieur Franklin verra d'un

THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1783

1421. ON THE SHOCK BY THE ELECTRIC BOT-
TLE, AND THE DENSITY OF GLASS 1 (L. c.)

Passy, June 14, 1783.
SIR,

I received some time since the letter you honoured me
with, containing your hypothesis for explaining the shock
given by the electric bottle, on which you seem to desire my
opinion. It is many years since I was engaged in those
pleasing studies, and my mind is at present too much occu-
pied with other and more important affairs to permit my
returning to them. I cannot therefore examine your in-
genious hypothesis with the attention it appears to merit.
You will find in a letter of mine to Dr. Lining, dated March
1 8th, 1755, that I abandoned my hypothesis of the greater
density of glass in the middle than near its surfaces, as con-
tributing to produce the effect, because I found the effect to
be the same after I had ground that part away.

And I think you might likewise try yours by an easy ex-
periment. Take a plate of lead twelve inches square ; cover
one of its sides with a coat of bees' wax, about one line thick;
upon that apply closely a thin plate of lead eight inches
square, so as to leave a margin of two inches all round.
Electrify this composition of lead and wax, and try if you can

ceil favorable 1'empressement que temoignent plusieurs Etats de 1'Allemagne
d'avoir des rapports avec une nouvelle puissance qui est en tres grande
partie son ouvrage.

" Paris, le 14 Juin 1783."

Charles, Prince des Deuxponts, elder brother of King Maximilian of Bavaria,
was the nephew of Duke Christian of Zweibriick, who was the husband of
Franklin's esteemed friend Madame de Forbach. — ED.

1 It is not known to whom this letter was written. — ED.

1783] TO BARON DE STAEL 53

receive a shock from it ; if not, you may draw thence a fur-
ther argument to support your hypothesis, because the wax,
though a non-conductor, is not elastic, any more than pure
lead. I see you are endowed with a genius for the study of
nature; and I would recommend it to you to employ your
time rather in making experiments, than in making hypoth-
eses and forming imaginary systems, which we are all too
apt to please ourselves with, till some experiment comes and
unluckily destroys them. Wishing you success in your in-
quiries, I have the honour to be, Sir, &c.

B. FRANKLIN.

1422. TO BARON DE STAEL (A. p. s.)

Passy, le 16 Juin 1783

MONSIEUR,

J'ai ref u la Lettre que votre Excellence m'a fait 1'honneur
de m'ecrire le 13 de ce Mois, pour me faire Part que vous
avez re£u de votre Cour la Ratification du Traite* conclu
entre nos deux Nations: J'attens de Jour en Jour la Rati-
fication du Congres, J des que je 1'aurai refue je m' empres-
serai de vous en faire Part, a fin que nous puissions faire les
Echanges reciproques.

Le Desir que temoigne sa Majeste* Swedoise, (et dont M*
le Ctc de Creutz votre Predecesseur, m'avez instruit avant
son depart) d'avoir pour resider aupres d'Elle, de la Part des
Etats Unis, quelqu'un qui porte mon Nom, m'honore et
me flatte infiniement; ainsi que les Termes obligeants dont
vous vous etes servis pour me rapeller cet desir. — Je m'em-
presserai de le faire connoitre au Congres, et je ne doute
pas que £e Corps ne se prete a faire tous ce qui peut etre

54 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1783

agreable a un Souverain pour qui ils ont tant d'estime,
J qui a etc* le premier de 1'Europe a nous offrir son Amide*.

J'ai 1'honneur d'etre une respectueuse Consideration et
un sincere attachement, de Votre Excellence
Le tres humble et tres obeissant
serviteur

[B. FRANKLIN.]1

1423. TO CAPTAIN NATHANIEL FALCONER2

(P. H. S.)
Passy, June 18. 1783

DEAR FRIEND

I received your kind Letters of May 15. and June y.3
and was very glad to hear of your Welfare and safe Arrival
in England. — I wish you much Success in entring again
upon your old Occupation, and should be happy if I could

1 This letter was in reply to the following : —

"Paris, June 13, 1783.
" SIR,

" I have just received his Majesty's ratification of the treaty of commerce
concluded with the United States, which I shall have the honour to send you
as soon as it can be exchanged for the one from Congress.

" Permit me, Sir, on this occasion to repeat the request, which the ambas-
sador has made you, respecting Mr. Franklin, your grandson. He had the
honour to tell you, that it would afford the King a pleasure to have a person
residing with him, in the capacity of the minister of Congress, who bears your
name in conjunction with such estimable qualifications as young Mr. Franklin
possesses. He charged me before he departed, to repeat to you the same
assurances, and you will allow me to add, on my part, my best wishes for the
success of this matter. I have the honour to be, &c.

" LE BARON DE STAEL."

Eric-Magnus, Baron de Stael-Holstein (1749-1802), was newly accredited
Swedish ambassador to France at the time of the writing of this letter. Three
years later he married the daughter of M. Necker. — ED.

2 The trans, of this letter in P. H. S. is endorsed " copied from the original
in possession of Peter Thompson of Philad»." — ED.

8 These letters are in A. P. S. — ED.

1783] TO CAPTAIN NATHANIEL FALCONER 55

be ready to return in a ship under your Care. But I have
not yet receiv'd the Permission I requested from Congress,
nor do I know anything of their Intentions respecting me or
my Grandson, having no Letter later than the i3th of Janu-
ary. I am surpriz'd they did not take the opportunity of
writing by you. We are here totally in the Dark as to their
Opinion of the Preliminary Articles of the Peace, which we
sent by Capt. Barney in the Washington ; who sail'd from
L'Orient the iyth of January, and carried with our Dis-
patches a large Sum of Money; we have not so much as
heard with Certainty of his Arrival. I beg you will give
me what Information you can of these Particulars and any
others that you may think interesting to me and mine. Is
it true that Mr Morris has resigned his Office, and that the
Constitution of Pensilvania is to be altered in October?
Was any one appointed to succeed me here, or who was in-
tended? I never long'd so much to be at home, and am
afraid that if my Discharge is delay'd I shall be oblig'd to
stay here another Winter.—

I am glad to hear from you of the Welfare of my old Friends
MT. Jackson and MF. Watley.1 If you see them again, please
to present my best Respects to them. I have still a regard
for Mf. Strahan in remembrance of our ancient Friendship,
tho' he has as a Member of Parliament dipt his Hands in
our Blood. He was always as credulous as you find him.2

1 Captain Falconer dined June 6, 1783, with Richard Jackson and George
Whatley, at the Post Office. — ED.

a " I have been over to your old friends Mr. Strawns and find him just the
same man, believes every Ly he hears against the United States, the French
army and our Army have been killing each other, and that we shall be glad to
come to this country again. Let these Gentlemen believe all this for I am
very sure I do not." (Falconer.) — ED.

S6 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1783

He told me a little before I left London that there was News
of a Scotch Sergeant's having alone met a party of 40 Ameri-
can Soldiers, disarmed them, and brought them. Prisoners
into Boston. This he appeared to believe, and may there-
fore well believe the Lie you mention of the French Troops
& our Army killing each other. His believing such Fals-
hoods would be Less consequence, if he did not propagate
them by his Chronicle, in the last of which that I have seen
there are two lying letters said to be from New York of
April 13 but actually fabricated in London. In refutation
of his story of our quarrelling & fighting with the French
Troops I send you enclosed part of a Pennsylvania Journal
of May 7 which I wish you would give to him, and I doubt
not but he will have the Candour to publish it. It will there
appear authentically that the most perfect harmony sub-
sisted between them to the last. My Grandson presents
his Respects to you, as does Mr Hartley. We are all (Thanks
to God) well & hearty: But I am uneasy about Barney,
fearing he may be lost, and therefore beg you would as soon
as possible inform me if you know anything of his Arrival.
With great and sincere Esteem, I am ever, my dear Friend,

Yours most affectionately

B. FRANKLIN.

Tell me everything you know about the Arrival & Recep-
tion of the News respecting the Peace, and whether it is true
that the Articles were kept some time secret, & why; for
we have received no intelligence from Government & know
not what to believe or think.

To Capt. Nath11 Falconer
at the Pennsylvania Coffee House
Birchin Lane
London.

1783] TO COAfTE DE VERGENNES 57

1424. TO COMTE DE VERGENNES ' (p. A. E. E. u.)

Passy, July. 4, 1783.

SIR,

I have the honour to communicate to your Excellency, by
Order of Congress, their Resolution of the 2d of May. It
will explain itself; and I can add no Arguments to enforce
the Request it contains, which I have not already urged with
an Importunity that nothing but a Sense of Duty could oblige
me to use, when I see so clearly that it is painful to you as
well as to me. I confide also much more in the Representa-
tion M. de la Luzerne has probably made to you on the Affair.
I will only say, that from a perfect Knowledge I have of
their present Situation, no Favour of the Kind from his
Majesty could ever be more essentially serviceable to the
United States, or make a more lasting Impression.

I send withal an Address the Congress has just made to
the several States, wherein you will see the Steps they are
taking to procure the necessary Funds, for answering all
Engagements; in which I have no doubt they will succeed.
Your Excellency will also see there, the Manner in which I
have written on the Subject ; and you will find that the Con-
tract of July last was ratified, and with Expressions of Grati-
tude, in January last, tho' the Original Ratification is not
yet come to hand

With great Respect, I am, Sir,

Your Excellency's most

obedient and most humble Servant

B. FRANKLIN.

1 There is an auto, draft of this letter in L. C. It is printed by Bigelow
but dated July 14. — ED.

58 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1783

1425. TO HENRY LAURENS1 (P. c.)

Passy, July 6, 1783.

DEAR SIR,

We have been honoured with several of your Letters,
and we have talk'd of writing to you, but it has been de-
layed. I will therefore write a few Lines in my private
Capacity.

Our Negotiations go on slowly, every Proposition being
sent to England, and Answers not returning very speedily.
Captain Barney arrived here last Wednesday, & brought
Dispatches for us as late as the first of June. The Prelimi-
nary Articles are ratified. But General Carleton, in Vio-
lation of those Articles, has sent away a great number of
Negroes, alleging, that Freedom having been promised them
by a Proclamation, the Honour of the Nation was con-
cern'd, &c. Probably another Reason may be, that, if they
had been restor'd to their Masters, Britain could not have
hop'd any thing from such another Proclamation hereafter.

Mr. Hartley calPd yesterday to tell us, that he had receiv'd
a letter from Mr. Fox, assuring him that our Suspicions of
affected Delays or Change of System on their Side were
groundless; and that they were sincerely desirous to finish
as soon as possible. If this be so, and your health will per-
mit the Journey, I could wish your Return as soon as pos-
sible. I want you here on many Accounts, and should be
glad of your Assistance in considering and answering our
public Letters. There are Matters in them of which I can-
not conveniently give you an Account at present. Nothing

1 From the original in the possession of Mr. Simon Gratz. — ED.

1783] TO ROBERT R. LIVINGSTON 59

could be more seasonable than Success in the Project you
proposed, but we have now very little expectation. Please
to give my love to your valuable and amiable son and
daughter, and believe me, with sincere esteem, and Affection,
Dear Sir, your most obedient and most humble Servant

B. FRANKLIN.

1426. TO ROBERT R. LIVINGSTON (L. c.)

Passy, July 22, 1783.
SIR,

You have complain'd, sometimes with reason, of not hear-
ing from your foreign Ministers ; we have had cause to make
the same Complaint, six full Months having interven'd be-
tween the latest date of your preceding Letters and the re-
ceipt of those by Captain Barney. During all this time we
were ignorant of the Reception of the Provisional Treaty,
and the Sentiments of Congress upon it, which, if we had
received sooner, might have forwarded the Proceedings on
the Definitive Treaty, and, perhaps, brought them to a Con-
clusion at a time more favourable than the present. But
these occasional Interruptions of Correspondence are the in-
evitable Consequences of a State of War, and of such remote
Situations. Barney had a short Passage, and arrived some
Days before Colonel Ogden, who also brought Dispatches
from you, all of which are come safe to hand. We, the Com-
missioners, have in our joint Capacity written a Letter to
you, which you will receive with this.

I shall now answer yours of March 26, May 9, and May
3 1.1 It gave me great Pleasure to learn by the first, that the

1 See "Diplomatic Correspondence" (Sparks), Vol. IV, pp. 84, 107, 109.— ED.

60 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1783

News of the Peace diffused general Satisfaction. I will not
now take upon me to justify the apparent Reserve, respect-
ing this Court, at the Signature, which you disapprove. We
have touch'd upon it in our general Letter.1 I do not see,
however, that they have much reason to complain of that
Transaction. Nothing was stipulated to their Prejudice, and
none of the Stipulations were to have Force, but by a sub-
sequent Act of their own. I suppose, indeed, that they have
not complain' d of it, or you would have sent us a Copy of
the Complaint, that we might have answer'd it. I long since
satisfied Comte de V. about it here. We did what appear'd
to all of us best at the Time, and, if we have done wrong,
the Congress will do right, after hearing us, to censure us.
Their Nomination of Five Persons to the Service seems to
mark, that they had some Dependence on our joint Judg-
ment, since one alone could have made a Treaty by Direc-
tion of the French Ministry as well as twenty.

I will only add, that, with respect to myself, neither the Let-
ter from M. Marbois,2 handed us thro' the British Negocia-
tors (a suspicious Channel), nor the Conversations respecting
the Fishery, the Boundaries, the Royalists, &c., recommend-
ing Moderation in our Demands, are of Weight sufficient in
my Mind to fix an Opinion, that this Court wish'd to restrain
us in obtaining any Degree of Advantage we could prevail
on our Enemies to accord ; since those Discourses are fairly
resolvable, by supposing a very natural Apprehension, that

1 See " Diplomatic Correspondence" (Sparks), Vol. X. p. 187. — ED.

2 Marquis de Barbe-Marbois (1745-1837), secretary of the French legation,
at Philadelphia ; minister plenipotentiary in Germany ; major of Metz ;
President of "Conseil des Anciens" ; Conseiller d'Etat; directeur in 1801;
President of "Cour des Comptes " ; senator ; garde des Sceaux under
Louis XVIII ; member of the " Academie des Inscriptions."— ED.

1783] TO ROBERT R. LIVINGSTON 61

we, relying too much on the Ability of France to continue the
War in our favour, and supply us constantly with Money,
might insist on more Advantages than the English would be
willing to grant, and thereby lose the Opportunity of making
Peace, so necessary to all our Friends.

I ought not, however, to conceal from you, that one of my
Colleagues * is of a very different Opinion from me in these
Matters. He thinks the French Minister one of the greatest
Enemies of our Country, that he would have straitned our
Boundaries, to prevent the Growth of our People ; contracted
our Fishery, to obstruct the Increase of our Seamen; and
retained the Royalists among us, to keep us divided; that
he privately opposes all our Negociations with foreign Courts,
and afforded us, during the War, the Assistance we receiv'd,
only to keep it alive, that we might be so much the more
weaken 'd by it ; that to think of Gratitude to France is the
greatest of Follies, and that to be influenced by it would ruin
us. He makes no Secret of his having these Opinions, ex-
presses them publicly, sometimes in presence of the English
Ministers, and speaks of hundreds of Instances which he
could produce in Proof of them. None of which however,
have yet appear'd to me, unless the Conversations and Letter
above-mentioned are reckoned such.

If I were not convinc'd of the real Inability of this Court
to furnish the further Supplys we ask'd, I should suspect these
Discourses of a Person in his Station might have influenced
the Refusal; but I think they have gone no farther than to
occasion a Suspicion, that we have a considerable Party of
Antigallicans in America, who are not Tories, and conse-
quently to produce some doubts of the Continuance of our

1 John Adams. — ED.

62 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1783

Friendship. As such Doubts may hereafter have a bad
Effect, I think we cannot take too much care to remove them ;
and it is, therefore, I write this, to put you on your guard,
(believing it my duty, tho' I know that I hazard by it a mortal
Enmity), and to caution you respecting the Insinuations of
this Gentleman against this Court, and the Instances he
supposes of their ill will to us, which I take to be as imaginary
as I know his Fancies to be, that Count de V. and myself are
continually plotting against him, and employing the News-
Writers of Europe to depreciate his Character, &c. But
as Shakespear says, "Trifles light as Air," 1 &c. I am per-
suaded, however, that he means well for his Country, is
always an honest Man, often a wise one, but sometimes, and
in some things, absolutely out of his senses.

When the Commercial Article, mentioned in yours of the
26th was struck out of our propos'd Preliminaries by the
then British Ministry, the reason given was, that sundry
Acts of Parliament still in force were against it, and must
be first repeal'd, which I believe was really their Intention,
and sundry Bills were accordingly bro't in for that purpose ;
but, new Ministers with different Principles succeeding, a
commercial Proclamation totally different from those Bills
has lately appeared. I send enclosed a Copy of it. We shall
try what can be done in the Definitive Treaty towards setting
aside that Proclamation; but, if it should be persisted in, it
will then be a Matter worthy the attentive Discussion of
Congress, whether it will be most prudent to retort with a
similar Regulation in order to force its Repeal (which may
possibly tend to bring on another Quarrel), or to let it pass
without notice, and leave it to its own Inconvenience, or

1 "Othello," III, in, 222. — ED.

1783] TO ROBERT R. LIVINGSTON 63

rather Impracticability, in the Execution, and to the Com-
plaints of the West India Planters, who must all pay much
dearer for our Produce, under those Restrictions.

I am not enough Master of the Course of our Commerce
to give an Opinion on this particular Question, and it does
not behove me to do it ; yet I have seen so much Embarrass-
ment and so little Advantage in all the Restraining and Com-
pulsive Systems, that I feel myself strongly inclin'd to be-
lieve, that a State, which leaves all her Ports open to all the
World upon equal Terms, will, by that means, have foreign
Commodities cheaper, sell its own Productions dearer, and
be on the whole the most prosperous. I have heard some
Merchants say, that there is 10 per cent Difference between
Will you buy ? and Will you sell ? When Foreigners bring
us their Goods, they want to part with them speedily, that they
may purchase their Cargoes and despatch their Ships, which
are at constant Charges in our Ports ; we have then the Ad-
vantage of their Will you buy ? And when they demand our
Produce, we have the Advantage of their Will you sell?
And the concurring Demands of a Number also contribute
to raise our Prices. Thus both those Questions are in our
favour at home, against us abroad.

The employing, however, of our own Ships and raising a
Breed of Seamen among us, tho' it should not be a matter
of so much private Profit as some imagine, is nevertheless
of political Importance, and must have weight in consider-
ing this Subject.

The Judgment you make of the Conduct of France in
the Peace, and the greater Glory acquired by her Moderation
than even by her Arms, appears to me perfectly just. The
Character of this Court and Nation seems, of late years, to

64 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1783

be considerably changed. The Ideas of Aggrandizement by
Conquest are out of fashion, and those of Commerce are more
enlightened and more generous than heretofore. We shall
soon, I believe, feel something of this in our being admitted
to a greater Freedom of Trade with their Islands. The Wise
here think France great enough ; and its Ambition at present
seems to be only that of Justice and Magnanimity towards
other Nations, Fidelity and Utility to its Allies.

The Ambassador of Portugal was much pleas'd with the
Proceedings relating to their Vessel, which you sent me, and
assures me they will have a good Effect at his Court. He
appears extremely desirous of a Treaty with our States; I
have accordingly propos'd to him the Plan of one (nearly the
same with that sent me for Sweden), and, after my agreeing
to some Alterations, he has sent it to his Court for Approba-
tion. He told me at Versailles, last Tuesday, that he ex-
pected its Return to him on Saturday next, and anxiously
desired that I would not despatch our Pacquet without it,
that Congress might consider it, and, if approv'd, send a
Commission to me or some other Minister to sign it.

I venture to go thus far in treating, on the Authority only
of a kind of general Power, given formerly by a Resolution
of Congress to Messrs. Franklin, Deane, and Lee ; but a
special Commission seems more proper to compleat a
Treaty, and more agreable to the usual Forms of such Busi-
ness.

I am in just the same Situation with Denmark; that
Court, by its Minister here, has desired a Treaty with us.
I have propos'd a Plan formed on that sent me for Sweden;
it had been under Consideration some time at Copenhagen,
and is expected here this Week, so that I may possibly send

1783] TO ROBERT R. LIVINGSTON 65

that also by this Conveyance. You will have seen by my
Letter to the Danish Prime Minister, that I did not forget
the Affair of the Prizes. What I then wrote, produc'd a
verbal Offer made me here, of £10,000 Sterling, propos'd to
be given by his Majesty to the Captors, if I would accept
it as a full Discharge of our Demand. I could not do this,
I said, because it was not more than a fifth Part of the Esti-
mated Value. In answer, I was told, that the Estimation
was probably extravagant, that it would be difficult to come at
the Knowledge of their true Value, and that, whatever they
might be worth in themselves, they should not be estimated
as of such Value to us when at Bergen, since the English prob-
ably watched them, and might have retaken them in their
Way to America ; at least, they were at the common Risques
of the Seas and Enemies, and the Insurance was a consider-
able Drawback; that this Sum might be considered as so
much sav'd for us by the King's Interference; for that, if
the English Claimants had been suffered to carry the Cause
into the common Courts, they must have recovered the
Prizes by the Laws of Denmark; it was added, that the
King's Honour was concern'd, that he sincerely desir'd our
Friendship, but he would avoid, by giving this Sum in the
Form of a Present to the Captors, the Appearance of its being
exacted from him as the Reparation of an Injury, when it
was really intended rather as a Proof of his strong Disposi-
tion to cultivate a good Understanding with us.

I reply'd, that the Value might possibly be exaggerated;
but that we did not desire more than should be found just upon
Enquiry, and that it was not difficult to learn from London
what Sums were insur'd upon the Ships and Cargoes, which
would be some Guide; and that a reasonable Abatement

VOL. IX — F

66 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1783

might be made for the risque ; but that the Congress could
not, in justice to their Mariners, deprive them of any Part
that was truly due to those brave Men, whatever Abatement
they might think fit to make (as a Mark of their Regard for
the King's Friendship) of the Part belonging to the publick;
that I had, however, no Instructions or Authority to make
any Abatement of any kind, and could, therefore, only
acquaint Congress with the Offer, and the Reasons that
accompanied it, which I promised to state fully and candidly
(as I have now done), and attend their Orders; desiring only
that it might be observ'd, we had presented our Complaint
with Decency, that we had charg'd no Fault on the Danish
Government, but what might arise from Inattention or Pre-
cipitancy, and that we had intimated no Resentment, but
had waited, with Patience and Respect, the King's Deter-
mination, confiding, that he would follow the equitable Dis-
position of his own Breast, by doing us Justice as soon as
he could do it with Conveniency ; that the best and wisest
Princes sometimes erred, that it belong'd to the Condition
of Man, and was, therefore, inevitable, and that the true
Honour in such Cases consisted, not in disowning or hiding
the Error, but in making ample Reparation; that, tho' I
could not accept what was offered on the Terms proposed,
our Treaty might go on, and its Articles be prepared and
considered, and, in the mean time, I hoped his Danish
Majesty would reconsider the Offer, and make it more ade-
quate to the Loss we had sustained. Thus that matter rests ;
but I hourly expect to hear farther, and perhaps may have
more to say on it before the Ship's Departure.

I shall be glad to have the Proceedings you mention re-
specting the Brig Providentia. I hope the Equity and Justice

1783] TO ROBERT R. LIVINGSTON 67

of our Admiralty Courts respecting the Property of Strangers
will always maintain their Reputation; and I wish particu-
larly to cultivate the Disposition of Friendship towards us,
apparent in the late Proceedings of Denmark, as the Danish
Islands may be of use to our West India Commerce, while
the English impolitic Restraints continue.

The Elector of Saxony, as I understand from his Minister
here, has thoughts of sending one to Congress, and proposing
a Treaty of Commerce and Amity with us. Prussia has
likewise an Inclination to share in a Trade with America,
and the Minister of that Court, tho' he has not directly pro-
pos'd a Treaty, has given me a Pacquet of Lists of the several
Sorts of Merchandise they can furnish us with, which he
requests me to send to America for the Information of our
Merchants.

I have received no Answer yet from Congress to my Re-
quest of being dismiss'd from their Service. They should,
methinks, reflect, that if they continue me here, the Faults
I may henceforth commit, thro' the Infirmities of Age, will
be rather theirs than mine. I am glad my Journal afforded
you any Pleasure. I will, as you desire, endeavour to con-
tinue it. I thank you for the Pamphlet ; it contains a great
deal of Information respecting our Finances. We shall, as
you advise, avoid publishing it. But I see they are publish-
ing it in the English Papers. I was glad I had a copy authen-
ticated by the Signature of Secry Thomson, by which I could
assure M. de Vergennes, that the Money Contract I had
made with him was ratified by Congress, he having just
before express'd some uneasiness to me at its being so long
neglected. I find it was ratified soon after it was receiv'd,
but the Ratification, except in that Pamphlet, has not yet

68 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1783

come to hand. I have done my best to procure the farther
Loan directed by the Resolution of Congress. It was not
possible. I have written on that Matter to Mr. Morris.
I wish the rest of the Estimates of Losses and Mischiefs
were come to hand ; they would still be of Use.

Mr. Barclay has in his Hands the Affair of the Alliance
and Eon Homme Richard. I will afford him all the Assist-
ance in my Power, but it is a very perplex'd Business. That
Expedition, tho' for particular Reasons under American
Commissions and Colours, was carry'd on at the King's
expence, and under his Orders. M. de Chaumont was the
Agent appointed by the Minister of the Marine to make the
Outfit. He was also chosen by all the Captains of the Squad-
ron, as appears by an Instrument under their Hands, to be
their Agent, receive, sell, and divide Prizes, &c. The Crown
bought two of them at public Sale, and the Money, I under-
stand, is lodg'd in the Hands of a responsible Person at
L'Orient. M. de Chaumont says he has given in his Accounts
to the Marine, and that he has no more to do with the Affair,
except to receive a Ballance due to him. That Account,
however, is I believe unsettled, and the Absence of some of
the Captains is said to make another Difficulty, which re-
tards the Completion of the Business. I never paid or re-
ceiv'd any thing relating to that Expedition, nor had any other
Concern in it, than barely ordering the Alliance to join the
Squadron, at M. de Sartine's Request. I know not whether
the other Captains will not claim a Share in what we may
obtain from Denmark, tho' the Prizes were made by the
Alliance, when separate from the Squadron. If so, that is
another Difficulty in the way of making Abatement in our
Demand, without their Consent.

1783] TO ROBERT R. LIVINGSTON 69

I am sorry to find, that you have Thoughts of quitting the
Service. I do not think your Place can be easily well supply 'd .
You mention, that an entire new Arrangement, with respect
to foreign Affairs, is under Consideration. I wish to know
whether any Notice is likely to be taken in it of my Grandson.
He has now gone through an Apprenticeship of near seven
Years in the ministerial Business, and is very capable of
serving the States in that Line, as possessing all the Requisites
of Knowledge, Zeal, Activity, Language, and Address. He
is well lik'd here, and Count de Vergennes has express'd to
me in warm Terms his very good Opinion of him. The late
Swedish Ambassador, Count de Creutz, who has gone home
to be Prime Minister, desir'd I would endeavour to procure
his being sent to Sweden, with a public Character, assuring
me, that he should be glad to receive him there as our Minister,
and that he knew it would be pleasing to the King. The
present Swedish Ambassador has also propos'd the same thing
to me, as you will see by a Letter of his, which I enclose.1
One of the Danish Ministers, M. Walterstorff, who will prob-
ably be sent in a public Character to Congress, has also ex-
press'd his Wish, that my Grandson may be sent to Denmark.
But it is not my Custom to solicit Employments for myself,
or any of my Family, and I shall not do it in this Case. I
only hope, that if he is not to be employ'd in your new Arrange-
ment, I may be informed of it as soon as possible, that, while
I have Strength left for it, I may accompany him in a Tour
to Italy, returning thro' Germany, which I think he may
make to more Advantage with me than alone, and which I
have long promis'd to afford him, as a Reward for his faith-
ful Service, and his tender filial Attachment to me.

1 See letter to Baron de Stael, June 16, 1783. — ED.

7o THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1783

July 25. While I was writing the above, M. Walterstorff
came in, and delivered me a Pacquet from M. de Rosen-
crone, the Danish Prime Minister, containing the Project
of the Treaty with some proposed Alterations, and a Paper
of Reasons in support of them. Fearing that we should not
have time to copy them, I send herewith the Originals, rely-
ing on his Promise to furnish me with Copies in a few Days.
He seemed to think, that the Interest of the Merchants is
concerned in the immediate Conclusion of the Treaty, that
they may form their Plans of Commerce, and wish'd to know
whether I did not think my general Power, above mentioned,
sufficient for that purpose. I told him, I thought a particular
Commission more agreable to the Forms ; but, if his Danish
Majesty would be content for the present with the general
Authority, formerly given me, I believ'd I might venture to
act upon it, reserving, by a separate Article, to Congress a
Power of shortning the Term, in Case any Part of the Treaty
should not be to their mind, unless the Alteration of such
Part should hereafter be agreed on.

The Prince de Deux-Ponts was lately at Paris, and ap-
ply'd to me for Information respecting a Commerce which
is desired between the Electorate of Bavaria and America.1
I have it also from a good Hand at the Court of Vienna,2 that
the Emperor is desirous of establishing a Commerce with us
from Trieste as well as Flanders, and would make a Treaty
with us, if propos'd to him. Since our Trade is laid open, and
no longer a Monopoly to England, all Europe seems desirous
of sharing in it, and for that purpose to cultivate our Friend-
ship. That it may be better known everywhere, what sort
of People, and what kind of Government they will have to

1 See letter to Prince des Deuxponts, June 14, 1783. — ED.

2 Dr. Jan Ingenhousz. — ED.

1783] TO ROBERT R. LIVINGSTON 71

treat with, I prevailed with a Friend, the Due de Rochefou-
cauld, to translate our Book of Constitutions into French, and
I presented Copies to all the foreign Ministers. I send you
one herewith. They are much admired by the Politicians
here, and it is thought will induce considerable Emigrations
of substantial People from different Parts of Europe to
America. It is particularly a Matter of Wonder, that, in the
Midst of a cruel War raging in the Bowels of our Country,
our Sages should have the Firmness of Mind to sit down
calmly and form such compleat Plans of Government. They
add considerably to the Reputation of the United States.

I have mentioned above the Port of Trieste, with which
we may possibly have a Commerce, and I am told that many
useful Productions and Manufactures of Hungary may be
had extreamly cheap there. But it becomes necessary first
to consider how our Mediterranean Trade is to be protected
from the Corsaires of Barbary. You will see by the enclos'd
Copy of a Letter I receiv'd from Algiers, the Danger two of
our Ships escap'd last Winter. I think it not improbable
that those Rovers may be privately encouraged by the English
to fall upon us, to prevent our Interference in the Carrying
Trade ; for I have in London heard it is a Maxim among the
Merchants, that, if there were no Algiers, it would be worth
England's while to build one. I wonder, however, that the
rest of Europe do not combine to destroy those Nests, and
secure Commerce from their future Piracies.

I made the Grand Master of Malta a Present of one of
our Medals in Silver, writing him a Letter, of which I enclose
a Copy ; l and I believe our People will be kindly receiv'd in

1 See letter to Emmanuel Rohan, grand master of Malta, April 6, 1783. —
ED.

72 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1783

his Ports; but that is not sufficient; and perhaps, now we
have Peace, it will be proper to send Ministers, with suitable
Presents, to establish a Friendship with the Emperor of
Morocco, and the other Barbary States, if possible. Mr.
Jay will inform you of some Steps, that have been taken by a
Person at Alicant, without Authority, towards a Treaty with
that Emperor. I send you herewith a few more of the above-
mentioned Medals, which have given great Satisfaction to
this Court and Nation. I should be glad to know how they
are lik'd with you.

Our People, who were Prisoners in England, are now all
discharg'd. During the whole War, those who were in For-
ton prison, near Portsmouth, were much befriended by the
constant charitable Care of Mr. Wren, a Presbyterian Min-
ister there, who spared no Pains to assist them in their Sick-
ness and Distress, by procuring and distributing among them
the Contributions of good Christians, and prudently dispensing
the Allowance I made them, which gave him a great deal of
trouble, but he went through it chearfully. I think some
public Notice should be taken of this good Man. I wish the
Congress would enable me to make him a Present, and that
some of our Universities would confer upon him the Degree
of Doctor.1

The Duke of Manchester, who has always been our Friend
hi the House of Lords, is now here as Ambassador from Eng-

1 This suggestion was not overlooked. Congress sent him a vote of thanks
for his humane and benevolent attention to the American prisoners, which was
conveyed to him in a letter from the President. The degree of Doctor in
Divinity was conferred upon him by the College at Princeton, in New Jersey.
See letter to Hodgson, Dec. 10, 1783.

Dr. Thomas Wren died at Portsmouth, on the 3Oth of October, 1787, at the
age of sixty-three. A well-written obituary notice of him is contained in The
Gentleman1 s Magazine for November of that year. — ED.

1783] TO SIR JOSEPH BANKS 73

land. I dine with him to-day, (26th,) and, if any thing of
Importance occurs, I will add it in a Postcript. Be pleased
to present my dutiful Respects to the Congress, assure them
of my most faithful Services, and believe me to be, with great

and sincere Esteem, Sir, &c.

B. FRANKLIN.

1427. TO COMTE DE VERGENNES (p. A. E. E. u.)

A Passy, ce 24 Juillet, 1783.

M. Franklin a 1'honneur d'envoyer a Monsieur le Comte
de Vergennes un exemplaire des Constitutions des Etats
Unis de PAme'rique, qu'il le prie de vouloir bien accepter.

M. Franklin prend la liberte* d'envoyer en m^me temps
ceux destines pour le Roi et la Famille Royale ; et il prie Mon-
sieur le Comte de Vergennes de vouloir bien les faire par-
venir a leur destination, suivant la forme qui lui paroitra
convenable.

1428. TO SIR JOSEPH BANKS (L. c.)

Passy, July 27, 1783.

DEAR SIR,

I received your very kind letter by Dr. Blagden,1 and es-
teem myself much honoured by your friendly Remembrance.

1 Sir Charles Blagden (1748-1820), a physician who entered the army as a
medical officer. He was elected F. R. S. in 1772, and succeeded Matthew
Maty, as secretary of the Royal Society, May 5, 1784, a post of honour for
which he was indebted to his lifelong friend, Sir Joseph Banks. " Blagden,
sir," said Dr. Johnson, " is a delightful fellow." He died suddenly in Paris at
the house of the chemist Berthollet. — ED.

74 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1783

I have been too much and too closely engaged in public
Affairs, since his being here, to enjoy all the Benefit of his
Conversation you were so good as to intend me. I hope soon
to have more Leisure, and to spend a part of it in those
Studies, that are much more agreable to me than political
Operations.

I join with you most cordially in rejoicing at the return of
Peace. I hope it will be lasting, and that Mankind will at
length, as they call themselves reasonable Creatures, have
Reason and Sense enough to settle their Differences without
cutting Throats; for, in my opinion, there never was a good
War, or a bad Peace. What vast additions to the Con-
veniences and Comforts of Living might Mankind have ac-
quired, if the Money spent in Wars had been employed in
Works of public utility ! What an extension of Agriculture,
even to the Tops of our Mountains: what Rivers rendered
navigable, or joined by Canals : what Bridges, Aqueducts,
new Roads, and other public Works, Edifices, and Improve-
ments, rendering England a compleat Paradise, might have
been obtained by spending those Millions in doing good,
which in the last War have been spent in doing Mischief ; in
bringing Misery into thousands of Families, and destroying
the Lives of so many thousands of working people, who
might have performed the useful labour !

I am pleased with the late astronomical Discoveries made
by our Society.1 Furnished as all Europe now is with
Academies of Science, with nice Instruments and the Spirit
of Experiment, the progress of human knowledge will be
rapid, and discoveries made, of which we have at present no
Conception. I begin to be almost sorry I was born so soon,

1 The Royal Society. — ED.

1783] NOTE ON LETTER OF THOMAS BARCLAY 75

since I cannot have the happiness of knowing what will be
known 100 years hence.

I wish continued success to the Labours of the Royal Society,
and that you may long adorn their Chair; being, with the

highest esteem, dear Sir, &c.

B. FRANKLIN.

P. S. Dr. Blagden will acquaint you with the experiment
of a vast Globe sent up into the Air, much talked of here,
and which, if prosecuted, may furnish means of new knowl-
edge.

1429. NOTE BY BENJAMIN FRANKLIN UPON A
LETTER ADDRESSED TO HIM BY THOMAS
BARCLAY, JULY 28, 1783 l (P. A. E. E. u.)

WHEN the Ship Alliance belonging to the Congress was at
POrient, under the Command of Capt. Jones, Moylan and
C° Merchants there, were appointed to supply the Ship with
what was necessary during her stay.

1 The letter upon which the above is written is as follows : —

"Auteuil 28 July 1783.
" SIR,

" I have the honor to inform your Excellency that I received last post a
Letter from Mess? Schweighauser and Dobree of Nantes under whose care the
Arsenal belonging to the United States is placed, informing me that their Part-
ner at L'Orient Mess? Puchelberg and C°., had some months ago laid an
attachment on all the Arms and other Military supplies under the Care of
Mess? Schweighauser and Dobree.

"I need not inform your Excellency of the nature of the transaction, as it
fell immediately under your own inspection, but I beg leave to say that unless
Government passes some signal Censure on those persons who have brought the
Execution my office will be embarrass'd beyond description.

" I beg Sir you will lay the matter in its proper light before the Ministers,

76 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1783

Capt. Landais taking Possession of the Ship surreptitiously
in the absence of Capt. Jones, apply'd to one Puchelberg, a
Commis of Mf Schweighauser, for some Provisions, who not
only without Orders either from me or Mr Schweighauser, but
contrary to express Orders from both, furnished the same,
pretending that Landais demanded them in the name and
on Account of the Navy-Board of Boston.

Payment was afterwards demanded of me, whichlrefus'd,
referring the Matter to the said Navy-Board. It was also
demanded of his Employer Schweighauser, who it seems ref us'd
also, probably because the Disbursement was made contrary
to Orders.

This Man, Puchelberg, has on this Account, arrested the
Property of the United States, in whose Hands soever he
could find any.

The Consul of the States complains of it as an Injury, and
an Insult. And it is certain, that great Inconveniencies will
follow, if such Proceedings are permitted, and if every man
who pretends a Demand against any Foreign Power, how-
ever ill-founded, may arrest the Effects of that Power in
France; for so the arms, ammunition, Clothing, &c., pur-
chased in France, and depended on for important Opera-
tions of Government, may be stopt by any private Person,
perhaps under Direction of an Enemy, and those Operations
defeated; and the United States can never hereafter with
safety make any such Purchases in France.

and obtain as soon as possible the dismission of this attachment and of those
laid on the Alliances prize money.

"These attachments have been held in suspence several months to the
great determent of the Public business under my care, and at the imminent
risk of a heavy loss in the final payment.

" I have the honor to be etc,

"THO? BARCLAY." — ED.

1783] TO CAPTAIN NATHANIEL FALCONER 77

It is therefore submitted to consideration, whether the said
arrests ought not only to be immediately discharg'd, but the

Arrester punish'd for his Insolence.

B. F.

1430. TO CAPTAIN NATHANIEL FALCONER

(P. H. S.)
Passy, July 28, 1783.

DEAR FRIEND,

I received your favour of the i8th.1

Capt. Barney brought us the Dispatches we so long ex-
pected. — M*. Deane as you observe is lost : D.r. Bancroft is
I believe steady to the Interest of his Country, and will make
an agreeable passenger if you can take him. You desire to
know something of the State of Affairs here. Everything
goes well with respect to this Court & the other Friendly
Powers. What England is doing, or means to do; or why
the Definitive Treaty is so long delay'd, I know perhaps less
than you do ; as, being in that Country, you may have Op-
portunities of hearing more than I can. For myself I am at
present as hearty & well as I have been these many years;
and as happy as a Man can be where everybody strives to
make him so.

The French are an amiable People to live with : They love
me, & I love them. Yet I do not feel myself at home, & I
wish to die in my own Country. — Barney will sail this Week
without Despatches. A good voyage to you, my friend ; and
may God bless you.

B. FRANKLIN.

Mn A. P. S.— Er>.

78 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1783

1431. TO COMTE DE VERGENNES (P. A. E. E. u.)

Passy, August 16, 1783.

SIR,

I have the honour to inform your Excellency, that the
English ministry do not agree to any of the propositions that
have been made, either by us or by their minister here ; and
they have sent over a plan for the definitive treaty, which con-
sists merely of the preliminaries formerly signed, with a short
introductory paragraph, and another at the conclusion, con-
firming and establishing the said preliminary articles. My
colleagues seem inclined to sign this with Mr. Hartley, and so
to finish the affair. I am, with respect, Sir, your Excellency's,
&c.

B. FRANKLIN.

1432. TO HENRY LAURENS l (L. L.)

Passy, Aug. 21. 1783.

DEAR SIR,

I do not doubt but you have written to some one or other
of your Colleagues since your Arrival in England: and as
we have heard nothing from you, I thought it necessary by a
Line to inform you that none of your Letters are come to
Hand.

After making and sending over many Propositions of ours
and of M* Hartley's, and long Delays of Answers, it is come
finally to this, that the Ministers propose our signing as a
Definitive Treaty the Preliminary Articles, with no Alteration

1 Then at Bath. — ED.

1783] TO SIR JOSEPH BANKS 79

or Addition, except a Paragraph of Preamble setting forth
that the following Articles had been agreed to & a concluding
Paragraph confirming them. Thus I suppose the Affair will
be concluded. Wishing Health & Happiness to you & yours;
I am ever, with sincere & great Esteem, Dear Sir,

Your most obed. hum. Servt.

B. FRANKLIN.

1433. TO SIR JOSEPH BANKS (u. of P.)

Passy, Aug. 30. 1783.

SIR,

On Wednesday the 27th Instant, the new aerostatic Ex-
periment, invented by Mess? Mongolfier of Annonay l was
repeated by Mr. Charles; Professor of Experimental Phi-
losophy at Paris.

A hollow Globe 12 feet diameter was formed of what is
called in England Oiled Silk, here Taffetas gommte, the Silk
being impregnated with a Solution of Gum-elastic in Lint-
seed Oil, as is said. The Parts were sewed together while
wet with the Gum, and some of it was afterwards passed over
the Seams, to render it as tight as possible.

It was afterwards filled with the inflammable Air that is
produced by pouring Oil of Vitriol upon Filings of Iron,
when it was found to have a Tendency upwards so strong as
to be capable of lifting a Weight of 39 Pounds, exclusive of
its own weight which was 25 Ib, and the Weight of the Air
contain'd.

It was brought early in the Morning to the Champ de Mars,

1 Stephen and Joseph Montgolfier, sons of Peter Montgolfier, a paper
maker at Annonay. — ED.

8o THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1783

a Field in which Reviews are sometimes made, lying between
the Military School and the River. There it was held down
by a Cord, till 5 in the Afternoon, when it was to be let loose.
Care was taken before the Hour to replace what Portion had
been lost of the inflammable Air, or of its Force, by injecting
more.

It is supposed that not less than 50,000 People were assem-
bled to see the Experiment. The Champ de Mars being
surrounded by Multitudes, and vast Numbers on the opposite
Side of the River.

At 5 o Clock Notice was given to the Spectators by the
Firing of two Cannon, that the Cord was about to be cut.
And presently the Globe was seen to rise, and that as fast as
a Body of 12 feet diameter with a force only of 39 pounds,
could be suppos'd to move the resisting Air out of its way.
There was some Wind, but not very strong. A little Rain
had wet it, so that it shone, and made an agreable Appear-
ance. It diminish'd in Apparent Magnitude as it rose, till it
enter 'd the Clouds, when it seem'd to me scarce bigger than
an Orange, and soon after became invisible, the Clouds
concealing it.

The Multitude separated, all well satisfied & much de-
lighted with the Success of the Experiment, and amusing
one another with Discourses of the various Uses it may pos-
sibly be apply'd to, among which many were very extrava-
gant. But possibly it may pave the Way to some Discoveries
in Natural Philosophy of which at present we have no Con-
ception.

A Note secur'd from the Weather had been affix'd to the
Globe, signifying the Time & Place of its Departure, and
praying those who might happen to find it, to send an Account

1783] TO SIR JOSEPH BANKS 81

of its State to certain Persons at Paris. No News was heard
of it till the next Day, when Information was receiv'd, that it
fell a little after 6 oClock at Gonesse, a Place about 4 Leagues
distance ; and that it was rent open, and some say had Ice
in it. It is suppos'd to have burst by the Elasticity of the
contain'd Air when no longer compress'd by so heavy an
Atmosphere.

One of 38 feet Diameter is preparing by M. Mongolfier
himself at the Expence of the Academy, which is to go up in a
few Days. I am told it is constructed of Linen & Paper, and
is to be filled with a different Air, not yet made public, but
cheaper than that produc'd by the Oil of Vitriol of which
200 Paris Pints were consum'd hi filling the other.

It is said that for some Days after its being fill'd, the Ball
was found to lose an eighth Part of its Force of Levity in 24
Hours : Whether this was from Imperfection in the Tightness
of the Ball, or a Change in the Nature of the Air, Experiments
may easily discover.

I thought it my Duty, Sir, to send an early Account of this
extraordinary Fact, to the Society which does me the honour
to reckon me among its Members; and I will endeavour to
make it more perfect, as I receive farther Information.
With great Respect, I am, Sir,

[B. FRANKLIN.]

P. S.

Since writing the above, I am favoured with your kind Letter
of the 25^ I am much oblig'd to you for the Care you have
taken to forward the Transactions, as well as to the Council
for so readily ordering them on Application. — Please to
accept and present my Thanks.

I just now learn, that some Observers say, the Ball was 150

VOL. IX — G

82 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1783

seconds in rising, from the Cutting of the Cord till hid in the
Clouds; that its height was then about 500 Toises, but,
mov'd out of the Perpendicular by the Wind, it had made a
Slant so as to form a Triangle, whose base on the Earth was
about 200 Toises. It is said the Country people who saw it
fall were frightened, conceiv'd from its bounding a little when
it touch'd the Ground, that there was some living Animal in
it, and attack'd it with Stones and Knives, so that it was
much mangled; but it is now brought to Town & will be
repaired. —

The great one of M. Mongolfier, is to go up as is said, from
Versailles, in about 8 or 10 Days. It is not a Globe but of a
different form, more convenient for penetrating the Air. It
contains 50,000 cubic Feet, and is supposed to have a Force
of Levity equal to 1500 pounds weight. A Philosopher here,
M. Pilatre de Rozier, has seriously apply'd to the Academy
for Leave to go up with it, in order to make some Experiments.
He was complimented on his Zeal and Courage for the Pro-
motion of Science, but advis'd to wait till the Management
of these Balls was made by Experience more certain & safe.
They say the filling of it in M. Mongolfier's Way will not cost
more than half a Crown. One is talk'd of to be no feet
Diameter. Several Gentlemen have ordered small ones to
be made for their Amusement; one has ordered four of 15
feet diameter each; I know not with what Purpose; but
such is the present Enthusiasm for promoting & improving
this Discovery, that probably we shall soon make consider-
able Progress in the Art of constructing and Using the
Machines. —

Among the Pleasantries Conversation produces on this
Subject, some suppose Flying to be now invented, and that

1783] TO SIR JOSEPH BANKS 83

since Men may be supported in the Air, nothing is wanted
but some light handy Instruments to give and direct Motion.
Some think Progressive Motion on the Earth may be ad-
vanc'd by it, and that a Running Footman or a Horse slung
& suspended under such a Globe so as to leave no more of
Weight pressing the Earth with their Feet, than perhaps 8 or
10 Pounds, might with a fair Wind run in a straight Line
across Countries as fast as that Wind, and over Hedges,
Ditches, & even Waters. It has been even fancied that in
time People will keep such Globes anchored in the Air, to
which by Pullies they may draw up Game to be preserved
in the Cool, & Water to be frozen when Ice is wanted. And
that to get Money, it will be contrived to give People an
extensive view of the Country, by running them upon an
Elbow Chair a Mile high for a Guinea, &c. &c.

[A Pamphlet is printing in which we are to have a full and
perfect Account of the Experiments hitherto made, & I will
send it to you. M. Mongolfier's Air to fill the Globe has
hitherto been kept secret. Some suppose it to be only com-
mon Air heated by passing thro' the Flame of burning Straw,
& thereby extreamly rarified. If so its Levity will soon be
diminished by Condensation when it comes into the cooler
Regions above.

Sept. 2d. — I add this paper just now given me, B. F.
The print contains a view of Champ de Mars, and the ball
in the air with this subscription:

Experience de la machine ae"rostatique de Me88r8' de Mont-
golfier, d'Anonai en Vivarais, re*epe*te*e a Paris le 27 Aout. 1783
au Champ de Mars, avec un ballon de taffetas enduit de
gomme elastique, de 36 pieds 6 onces de circonference. Le
ballon plein d'air inflammable a e*te* executd par Mons.

84 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1783

Robert, en vertu d'une souscription Rationale, sous la di-
rection de Mr. Faujas de Saint Fond (et M. Charles).

N. B. — M. Charles' name is wrote with pen, not en-
graved.

Calculas du Ballon do 12 pieds de diametre enleve* le
Mercredy 27 Aout 1783.

Circonference du grand cercle ... 37 pieds

Diametre 12
37

Surface 444

Tiers du rayon 2

Solidite 888 pieds cubes

Air atm. a 12 gros le pied .... 12
888

Pesanteur de 1'air atm 10,656 gros

26 f 8 /i6

ounces

25> 1 1332 • /83 lb-» 4 ounces.

6 52

L'air atmospherique dont le ballon occupait la place,
pesant 83 Ib. 4 onces et sa force pour s'elever etant de 40 Ib.
il falloit que son enveloppe et Pair inflammable qu'elle conten-
oit ne pesassent que 42 Ib. 4 onces. L'enveloppe en pesoit
25, reste pour 1'air inflammable 18 Ib. 4 onces.

En supposant le ballon de 6 pieds de diametre, son volume
etant le 8me, du ier le poids de 1'air dont il occupoit la place
seroit le 8me, de 83 Ib., 4 onces = 10 Ib., 6 onces, 4 gros.

1783] TO SIR JOSEPH BANKS 85

L'air inflammable \ de 18 lb., 4 onces = 2 lb., 4 onces, 4 gros.
L'enveloppe \ de 25 lb., = 6 lb., 4 onces. Les dernieres
valeurs reunies sont 8 lb., 8 onces, 4 gros, qui otes de 10 lb.,
6 onces, 4 gros pesanteur de Pair atmospherique dont le
ballon occupoit la place, laisse pour sa force d 'elevation i lb.,
14 onces.] *

1 The paragraphs in brackets are not found in the draft in U. of P., but they
exist in a letter press copy now owned (March, 1906) by Dodd, Mead & Co.
To this letter Sir Joseph Banks wrote in reply, September 13, 1783 (A. P. S.) : —

" DEAR SIR,

" The having it in my power to answer with precision the numerous questions
which are asked me by all sorts of people concerning the aerostatique experi-
ment which such as they may be are suggested by every newspaper now printed
here and considered as a part of my duty to answer is an obligation for which
I am indebted to you and an obligation of no small extent I consider it. I
lament that the vacation of the Royal Society will not permit me to lay your
paper before them as a Body immediately ; but it shall be the first thing they
see when we meet again as the conciseness & intelligence, with which it is
drawn up, preclude the hopes of any thing more satisfactory being receiv'd.

" Most agreable are the hopes you give me of continuing to communicate
on this most interesting subject. I consider the present day, which has opened
a road into the air, as an epoche from whence a rapid increase of the stock of
real knowledge with which the human species is furnish'd must take its date;
and the more immediate effect it will have upon the concerns of mankind
greater than any thing since the invention of shipping which opened our way
upon the face of the water from land to land. If the rough effort which has
now been made meets with the improvement that other sciences have done
we shall see it used as a counterpoise to absolute gravity a broad-wheeld
waggon travelling with 2 only instead of 8 horses the breed of that Rival
animal in course diminishd & the human species increasd in proportion.

" I have thought as soon as I return from my present banishment of con-
structing one and sending it up for the purpose of an electrical kite a use to
which it seem particularly adapted. Be pleased to direct your Favors to Soho
Square ; they are sent to me without delay wherever I am. Believe me, your
obliged & obedient servant Jos: BANKS."

Sir Joseph Banks's letters are almost entirely without punctuation. He
seems to have been especially hostile to the comma. Like Timothy Dexter
he might have filled a page with miscellaneous points and invited his readers
"to pepper the dish to suit themselves." — ED.

86 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1783

1434. TO ELIAS BOUDINOT * (D. s. w.)

Passy, August 31, 1783.

SIR,

After a continued course of treating for nine months, the
English ministry have at length come to a resolution to lay
aside, for the present, all the new propositions, that have
been made and agreed to, their own as well as ours ; and they
offer to sign again as a Definitive Treaty, the articles of
November the 3oth, 1782, the ratifications of which have
already been exchanged. We have agreed to this, and on
Wednesday next, the third of September, it will be signed,
with all the definitive treaties, establishing a general peace,
which may God long continue. I am, with great respect, &c.

B. FRANKLIN.

1435. TO CHARLES J. FOX (L. c.)

Passy, Sept. 5, 1783.

SIR,

I received in its time the letter you did me the honour of
writing to me by Mr. Hartley ; and I cannot let him depart
without expressing my satisfaction in his conduct towards us,
and applauding the prudence of that choice, which sent us a
man possessed of such a spirit of conciliation, and of all that
frankness, sincerity, and candor, which naturally produce
confidence, and thereby facilitate the most difficult negocia-
tions. Our countries are now happily at peace, on which I
congratulate you most cordially ; and I beg you to be assured,

1 President of Congress. — ED.

1783] TO DAVID HARTLEY 87

that as long as I have any concern in public affairs, I shall
readily and heartily concur with you in promoting every
measure that may tend to promote the common felicity.
With great and sincere esteem and respect, I have the honour
to be, &c.

B. FRANKLIN.1

1436. TO DAVID HARTLEY 2 (p. c.)

Passy, Sept. 6, 1783.

MY DEAR FRIEND,

Enclosed is my letter to Mr. Fox. I beg you wou'd assure
him, that my expressions of Esteem for him are not mere
professions. I really think him a Great Man, and I cou'd not
think so, if I did not think he was at bottom, and wou'd
prove himself a good one. Guard him against mistaken
notions of the American people. You have deceived your-
selves too long with vain expectations of reaping advantage

1 The above letter was written in acknowledgment of the following letter
from Charles James Fox, April 19, 1783: —

" SIR,

" Although it is unnecessary for me to introduce to your acquaintance a
gentleman so well known to you as Mr. Hartley, who will have the honour
of delivering to you this letter, yet it may be proper for me to inform you, that
he has the full and entire confidence of his Majesty's ministers upon the sub-
ject of his mission.

" Permit me, Sir, to take this opportunity of assuring you how happy I
should esteem myself, if it were to prove my lot to be the instrument of com-
pleting a real and substantial reconciliation between two countries, formed by
nature to be in a state of friendship one with the other, and thereby to put the
finishing hand to a building, in laying the first stone of which I may fairly
boast that I had some share. I have the honour to be, with every sentiment
of regard and esteem, Sir, &c. C. J. Fox." — ED.

2 From a copy in the possession of Mrs. L. Z. Leiter. A trans, exists in
L. C. Passages in brackets are found only in L. C. trans. — ED.

88 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1783

from our little discontents. We are more thoroughly an
enlightned people, with respect to our political interests,
than perhaps any other under heaven. Every man among us
reads, and is so easy in his circumstances as to have leisure
for conversations of improvement, and for acquiring Infor-
mation. Our domestic misunderstandings, when we have
them, are of small extent, tho' monstrously magnified by
your microscopic newspapers. He who judges from them,
that we are falling into anarchy, or returning to the obedience
of Britain, is like one who being shewn some spots in the Sun,
shou'd fancy, that the whole Disk would soon be overspread
by them, and that there wou'd be an end of Daylight. The
great body of Intelligence among our people surrounds and
overpowers our petty dissensions, as the Sun's great mass of
fire diminishes and destroys his Spots. Do not therefore
any longer delay the Evacuation of New York, in the vain
hopes of a new revolution in your favour, if such a hope has
indeed had any effect in causing that delay. [It is now nine
months since the evacuations were promised.] You expect
with reason, that the people of New York should do your
Merchants justice in the payment of their old debts; Con-
sider the injustice you do them in keeping them so long out
of their habitations, and out of their business, by which they
might have been enabled to make payment.

There is no truth more clear to me than this, that the great
interest of our two Countries is a thorough reconciliation.
Restraints on the freedom of Commerce and intercourse
between us, can afford no advantage equivalent to the Mis-
chief they will do by keeping up ill humour, and promoting a
total alienation. Let you and I, my dear Friend, do our best
towards securing and advancing that reconciliation. We

1783] TO MRS. MARY HEWSON 89

can do nothing, that in a dying hour will afford us more solid
satisfaction.

[I wish you a prosperous journey, and a happy sight of
your friends. Present my best respects to your good brother
and sister, and] believe me ever, with sincere and great
esteem, yours affectionately,

B. FRANKLIN.

1437. TO MRS. MARY HEWSON1 (p. c.)

Passy, Sept. 7, 1783.

MY DEAR FRIEND,

I received your kind Letter of the Qth past. I am glad,
that the little Books are pleasing to you and your Children,
and that the Children improve by them. I send you here-
with some more of them.

My grandson Bache has been four Years at School at Ge-
neva, and is but lately come home to me here. I find Rea-
son to be satisfied with the Improvement he has made in his
Learning. He translates common Latin readily into French,
but his English has suffer'd for want of Use ; tho' I think he
would readily recover it, if he were awhile at your School at
Cheam, and at the same time be going on with his Latin and
Greek. You were once so kind as to offer to take him under
your Care; would that be still convenient to you? He is
docile and of gentle Manners, ready to receive and follow good
Advice, and will set no bad Example to your other Children.
He gains every day upon my Affections.

I long much to see you and yours, and my other Friends

1 From the original in the possession of T. Hewson Bradford, M.D. — ED.

9o THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1783

in England, but I have not yet determined on the Journey.
Our definitive Treaty of Peace being now sign'd, I have in-
deed less to confine me here, and might make a short Excur-
sion without much Inconvenience; but short Days and
Winter are coming on, and I think I can hardly undertake
such an Expedition before the Spring of next Year.

With regard to the future Establishment of your Children,
which you say you want to consult me about, I am still of
Opinion, that America will afford you more Chances of doing
it well than England. All the means of good Education are
plenty there, the general Manners are simple and pure, Temp-
tations to Vice and Folly fewer, the Profits of Industry in
Business as great and sure as in England; and there is one
Advantage more, which your Command of Money will give
you there, I mean the laying out a Part of your Fortune in
new Land, now to be had extreamly cheap ; but which must
be increas'd immensely in Value, before your Children come
of Age, by the rapid Population of the Country. If you
should arrive there while I live, you know you may depend
on every Assistance in my Power to afford you, and I think
my Children will have a Pleasure too in serving their Father's
Friend. I do not offer it as a Motive, that you will be much
esteem'd and respected there ; for that you are, and must be,
everywhere; but give me leave to flatter myself, that my
being made happier in my last Years by your Neighbourhood
and Society may be some Inducement to you.

I forwarded your Letter to Mr. Williams. Temple is
always with me, being my Secretary. He presents his Re-
spects to you. I have been lately ill with a Fit of the Gout,
if that may indeed be called a Disease. I rather suspect it
to be a Remedy, since I always find my Health and Vigour of

1783] TO JOHN JAY 91

Mind improv'd after the Fit is over. I am ever, my dear

Friend, yours most affectionately,

B. FRANKLIN.

P. S. You say you are a little afraid that our Country is
spoiled. Parts of it have indeed suffered by the War, those
situated near the Sea : but the body of the Country has not
been much hurt, and the Fertility of our Soil, with the In-
dustry of our People, now that the Commerce of all the World
is open to us, will soon repair the Damages receiv'd, and in-
troduce that Prosperity, which we hope Providence intends
for us, since it has so remarkably favoured our Revolution.

1438. TO JOHN JAY1

Passy, September 10, 1783.

SIR,

I have received a letter from a very respectable person in
America, containing the following words, viz.

"It is confidently reported, propagated, and believed by
some among us, that the Court of France was at the bottom
against our obtaining the fishery and territory in that great
extent, in which both are secured to us by the treaty ; that our
minister at that court favoured, or did not oppose, this design
against us; and that it was entirely owing to the firmness,
sagacity, and disinterestedness of Mr. Adams, with whom Mr.
Jay united, that we have obtained these important advan-
tages." 2

1 Printed in "Diplomatic Correspondence " (Sparks), Vol. II, p. 482 ; and
in "Life of John Jay" (W™ Jay), Vol. II, p. 125. — ED.

2 This extract is from a letter written by Dr. Cooper of Boston, and dated
May 5th, 1 783. In a preceding paragraph, Dr. Cooper says : " There is a party

92 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1783

It is not my purpose to dispute any share of the honour
of that treaty, which the friends of my colleagues may be dis-
posed to give them; but, having now spent fifty years of my
life in public offices and trusts, and having still one ambition
left, that of carrying the character of fidelity at least to the
grave with me, I cannot allow that I was behind any of them
in zeal and faithfulness. I therefore think, that I ought not
to suffer an accusation, which falls little short of treason to my
country, to pass without notice, when the means of effectual

among us disposed to avail themselves of every incident, and of all personal
resentments, to weaken and divide our public counsels, and injure the alliance.
Regard to the general good, as well as private and the most constant friend-
ship, oblige me to state things as they are." Then comes the extract in the
text. Dr. Cooper adds : " It has also been said, from the same quarter, that
the court of France secretly traversed Mr. Adams's views in Holland for
obtaining from the United Provinces an acknowledgment of our indepen-
dence; and that the same part has been acted in Spain and Russia. All these
things are incredible to me ; and, though they make some impression at present,
truth is great and will prevail. Care, I hope, will be taken both at Congress
and in Europe, as far as public prudence will permit, to state, as soon as may
be, these matters in a just light, and to prevent the public mischiefs, as well as
private injuries, that may arise from misapprehensions in matters of this
moment."

A copy of the whole of this letter was sent by Dr. Franklin to Count de
Vergennes, and it is now contained among the American papers in the
Archives des Affaires Etrangeres at Paris. Dr. Franklin likewise sent to Con-
gress a copy of his correspondence with Messrs. Jay and Adams on this sub-
ject. M. de la Luzerne, in writing to Count de Vergennes some months after-
wards, said : " Dr. Franklin has at last aroused himself from the apathy with
which till now he seems to have regarded the attacks of his colleagues. He
has sent to Congress the copy of the letter, which he had written to Mr. Jay
and Mr. Adams, requesting these two ministers to explain themselves respect-
ing a report, which had gone abroad, that he did not unite in procuring for the
United States admission to the fisheries, and that he was disposed to con-
clude a treaty of peace without securing this advantage to the eastern States.
Mr. Jay, in his letter to Dr. Franklin, renders full justice to him on this point,
and affirms in a positive manner, that he concurred with a zeal equal to his
intelligence and experience in all the articles of the peace." — S.

1783] TO JOSIAH QUINCY 93

vindication are at hand. You, Sir, were a witness of my con-
duct in that affair. To you and my other colleagues I appeal,
by sending to each a similar letter with this, and I have no
doubt of your readiness to do a brother Commissioner justice,
by certificates that will entirely destroy the effect of that
accusation. I have the honour to be, with much esteem, &C.1

B. FRANKLIN.

1439. TO JOSIAH QUINCY ' (p. c.)

Passy, September u, 1783.

MY DEAR FRIEND,

Mr. Storer told me, not long since, that you complained of
my not writing to you. You had reason, for I find among
your Letters to me two unanswered, viz, those of May 25,
and Dec. 17. 1781. The truth is, I have had too much Busi-
ness to do for the publick, and too little Help allowed me ; so
that it became impossible for me to keep up my private Cor-
respondences. I promised myself more Leisure when the
Definitive Treaty of Peace should be concluded. But that
it seems is to be followed by a Treaty of Commerce, which
will probably take up a good deal of Time, and require much
Attention. I seize this little Interim to sit down and have
a little Chat with my Friends in America.

I lament with you the many Mischiefs, the injustices, the
Corruption of Manners, &c., &c., that attended a depreciating
Currency. It is some Consolation to me, that I wash'd my

1 A copy of this letter was sent to Mr. Adams. Replies were received from
Mr. Adams, September 13, 1783, and Mr. Jay, September n, 1783, the sub-
stance of which will be found in Volume X of this edition. — ED.

a From the original in the possession of Josiah P. Quincy, Esq. — ED.

94 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1783

Hands of that Evil by predicting it in Congress, and proposing
Means, that would have been effectual to prevent it if they
had been adopted. Subsequent Operations that I have
executed, demonstrate that my Plan was practicable. But
it was unfortunately rejected. Considering all our Mistakes
and Mismanagements, it is wonderful we have finished our
Affair so well, and so soon. Indeed, I am wrong in using
that Expression, We have finish' d our Affairs so well. Our
Blunders have been many, and they serve to manifest the
Hand of Providence more clearly in our Favour; so that we
may much more properly say, These are thy Doings, O Lord,
and they are marvellous in our Eyes.

Mr. Storer, whom you recommended to me is now in Eng-
land. He needed none of the Advice you desired me to give
him. His Behaviour here was unexceptionable, and he
gained the Esteem of all that knew him.

The epitaph on my dear and much esteemed young Friend,1
is too well written to be capable of Improvement by any Cor-
rections of mine. Your Moderation appears in it, since the
natural affection of a Parent has not induced you to exag-
gerate his Virtues. I shall always mourn his Loss with you ;
a Loss not easily made up to his Country.

How differently constituted was his noble and generous
Mind from that of the miserable Calumniators you mention !
Having Plenty of Merit in himself, he was not jealous of the
Appearance of Merit in others, but did Justice to their
Characters with as much Pleasure as these People do Injury.
It is now near two Years since your Friendship induced you to
acquaint me with some of their Accusations. I guess'd easily
at the Quarter from whence they came ; but, conscious of my

1 Josiah Quincy, Junior. — ED.

1783] TO JOSIAH QUINCY 95

Innocence, and unwilling to disturb public Operations by
private Resentments or Contentions, I pass'd them over in
Silence; and have not, till within these few days, taken the
least Step towards my Vindication. Inform'd that the Prac-
tice of abusing me continues, and that some heavy Charges
are lately made against me respecting my Conduct in the
Treaty, written from Paris and propagated among you, I
have demanded of all my Colleagues that they do me Justice,
and I have no doubt of receiving it from each of them. I did
not think it necessary to justify myself to you, by answering
the Calumnies you mentioned. I knew you did not believe
them. It was improbable, that I should at this Distance
combine with anybody to urge the Redemption of the Paper
on those unjust Terms, having no Interest in such Redemp-
tion. It was impossible, that I should have traded with the
Public Money, since I had not traded with any Money, either
separately or jointly with any other Person, directly or indi-
rectly, to the Value of a Shilling since my being in France.
And the Fishery, which it was said I had relinquished, had
not then come in question, nor had I ever dropt a Syllable
to that purpose in word or writing; but was always firm in
this Principle, that, having had a common Right with the
English to the Fisheries while connected with that Nation, and
having contributed equally with our Blood and Treasure in
conquering what had been gained from the French, we had
an undoubted Right on breaking up our Partnership, to a
fair Division. As to the two Charges of Age and Weakness, I
must confess the first, but I am not quite so clear in the latter;
and perhaps my Adversaries may find that they presumed
a little too much upon it, when they ventur'd to attack me.
But enough of these petty Personalities. I quit them to

96 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1783

rejoice with you, in the PEACE God has blest us with, and in
the Prosperity it gives us a prospect of. The Definitive Treaty
was signed the third instant. We are now Friends with
England and with all Mankind. May we never see another
War ! for in my opinion there never was a good War, or a bad
Peace. Adieu, believe me ever, my dear Friend, yours most

affectionately,

B. FRANKLIN.

1440. TO ELIAS BOUDINOT (L. c.)

Passy, Sept 13, 1783.

SIR,

I received, a few Days since, the private Letter your Ex-
cellency did me the honour of writing to me of the 8th of June.
I regret with you the Resignation of the late Secretary. Your
present Cares are encreas'd by it, and it will be difficult to find
a Successor of equal Abilities.

We found no difficulty in decyphering the Resolution of
Congress. The Commissioners have taken no Notice of it hi
our public Letter.

I am happy that both the Device and Workmanship of the
Medal are approoved with you, as they have the good Fortune
to be by the best Judges on this Side the Water. It has been
esteemed a well-tim'd, as well as a well-merited Compliment
here, and has had good Effects. Since the two first which
you mention as received, I have sent by different Opportuni-
ties so many, as that every Member of Congress might have
one. I hope they are come safe to hand before this time.
I wrote a long Letter to Mr. Livingston by Mr. Barney, to
which I beg leave to refer, inclosing a Copy.

1783] TO ELIAS BOUDINOT 97

We had, before signing the Definitive Treaty, receiv'd the
Ratification of the preliminary Articles by his Britannic Maj-
esty, exchang'd with us by Mr. Hartley for that of the Con-
gress. I send herewith a Copy of the first and last Clauses.

In a former Letter, I mentioned the volunteer Proceedings
of a Merchant at Alicant, towards obtaining a Treaty between
us and the Emperor of Morocco. We have since receiv'd a
Letter from a Person l who says, as you will see by the Copy
enclos'd, that he is sent by the Emperor to be the Bearer of
his Answer to the United States, and that he is arriv'd in
Spain on his way to Paris. He has not yet appear'd here, and
we hardly know what Answer to give him. I hope the send-
ing a Minister to that Court, as recommended in my last,
has been taken into Consideration, or at least that some
Instructions respecting that Nation have been sent to your
Minister in Spain, who is better situated than we are for
such a Negotiation.

The Minister from Denmark often speaks to me about
the propos'd Treaty, of which a Copy went by Barney. No
Commission to sign it, nor any Instructions from Congress
relating to it, are yet arriv'd; and, tho' press'd, I have not
ventur'd to do any thing further in the Affair.

I forward herewith a Letter to the Congress from the City
of Hamburgh.2 I understand that a good Disposition towards
us prevails there, which it may be well to encourage.

No answer has yet been given me from the Court of Portu-
gal, respecting the Plan of a Treaty concerted between its
Ambassador here and me. He has been unwell and much in
the Country, so that I have not seen him lately. I suspect

1 Giacomo Crocco. — ED.

« See M Diplomatic Correspondence" (Sparks), Vol. IV, p. 88. — ED.

VOL. IX — H

98 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1783

that the false or exaggerated Reports of the distracted Situa-
tion of our Government, industriously propagated thro'out
Europe by our Enemies, have made an Impression in that
Kingdom to our Disadvantage, and inclined them to hesitate
in forming a connection with us. Questions asked me, and
Observations made by several of the foreign Ministers here,
convince me, that the idle Stories of our Disunion, Contempt
of Authority, Refusal to pay Taxes, &c. ; have been too
much credited, and been very injurious to our Reputation.

I sent before a Copy of the Letter I wrote to the Grand
Master of Malta,1 with a present of our Medal. With this
you will have a Copy of his Answer. I send also a Copy of a
Note I received from the Pope's Nuncio.2 He is very civil
on all Occasions, and has mention'd the Possibility of an ad-
vantageous Trade America might have with the Ecclesiastical
State, which he says has two good Ports, Civita Vecchia, and

This Court continues favourable to us. Count de Ver-
gennes was resolute in refusing to sign the Definitive Treaty
with England before ours was signed. The English Ministers
were offended, but comply'd. I am convinc'd that Court
will never cease endeavouring to disunite us. We shall, I
hope, be constantly on our Guard against those Machinations ;
for our Safety consists in a steady adherence to our Friends,
and our Reputation in a faithful Regard to Treaties, and in a
grateful Conduct towards our Benefactors.

I send herewith sundry Memorials recommended to my

1 See letter dated April 6, 1783. — ED.

2 For the reply of the Pope's Nuncio, July 28, 1783 (D. S. W.), see
" Diplomatic Correspondence " (Wharton), Vol. VI, p. 614. — ED.

3 Name not given in draft. — ED.

1783] TO RICHARD PRICE 99

Care by M. le Comte de Vergennes, viz. one respecting a
Claim of Messi'rs Fosters, of Bordeaux, one of M. Pecquet,
and one of M. Bayard. The Congress will take such Notice
of them as they shall think proper. With great Esteem and
Respect, I have the Honour to be, &c.

B. FRANKLIN.

1441. TO RICHARD PRICE (L. c.)

Passy, Near Paris, Sept. 16, 1783.

MY DEAR FRIEND: — Having this Opportunity by Mr.
Bingham,1 who has the Honour of being known to you, I
seize it to thank you for your excellent Book, and other
Favours, and to let you know that I continue well, except a
little Gout, which perhaps is no more a disease than a Remedy.
Mr. Petrie inform'd me of your being also well with Mrs.
Price lately at Brighthelmstone, which gave me great Pleas-
ure : Please to present my affectionate Respects to that good
Lady.

All the Conversation here at present turns upon the Bal-
loons fill'd with light inflammable Air, and the means of
managing them, so to give men the Advantage of Flying. One
is to be let off on Friday next at Versailles, which it is said will
be able to carry up 1000 pounds' weight — I know not whether
inclusive or exclusive of its own.

I have sent an Account of the former to Sir Joseph Banks,
our President, and shall be glad to hear if the Experiment
is repeated with Success in England. Please to forward him
the enclos'd Print.

1 U. S. Commercial agent at Martinique. — ED.

100 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1783

Inflammable Air puts me in mind of a little jocular Paper
I wrote some years since in ridicule of a prize Question given
out by a certain Academy on this side the Water, and I enclose
it for your Amusement. On second Thoughts, as it is a
mathematical Question, and perhaps I think it more trifling
than it really is, and you are a Mathematician, I am afraid
I have judg'd wrong in sending it to you. Our Friend, Dr.
Priestly, however, who is apt to give himself Airs, and has a
kind of Right to every thing his Friends produce upon that
Subject, may perhaps like to see it, and you can send it to
him without reading it.1

We have at length sign'd our preliminary Articles as defini-
tive. All the Additions we have been so long discussing,
being referred to a future Treaty of Commerce. I have now
a little Leisure, and long to see and be merry with the Club,
but I doubt I cannot undertake the Journey before Spring.
Adieu, and believe me ever, my dear Friend, yours most
affectionately, B. FRANKLIN.

They make small Balloons now of the same material with
what is called Gold-beater's Leaf. Inclos'd I send one, which
being fill'd with inflammable Air by my Grandson, went up
last Night, to the Cieling in my Chamber, and remained
rolling about there for some time. Please give it also to Sir
Joseph Banks. If a Man should go up with one of the large
ones, might there not be some mechanical Contrivance to
compress the Globe at pleasure; and thereby incline it to
descend, and let it expand when he inclines to rise again?

1 In reference to Franklin's bagatelle upon " Perfumes." Dr. Price replied :
" Mr. Dagge bro't me your paper on a mathematical prize question, proposed
by the Royal Academy of B[russels]. I conrey'd this to Dr. Priestley, and we
have been entertained with the pleasantry of it, and the ridicule it contains."
— ED.

1783] FROM ROBESPIERRE TO FRANKLIN 101

1442. TO ELIAS BOUDINOT (D. s. w.)
Passy, September 27, 1783.

SIR,

Mr. Thaxter, late Secretary of Mr. Adams, who is charged
with all our Dispatches, that were intended to go by the
French packet Boat, writes from L'Orient, that tho' he ar-
rived there two days before the time appointed for her Sailing,
he missed reaching her by four hours ; but another light Ves-
sel was fitting, and would sail the 2ist Instant, in which he
hoped to arrive at New York nearly as soon as the Packet.
We shall send Duplicates by the next from hence.

In the mean time I inclose a printed Copy of the definitive
Treaty, which I hear is ratified. Indeed we have the Rati-
fication of the Preliminaries.

Mr. Hartley, when he left us, expected to return in three
weeks, in order to proceed with us in forming a Treaty of
Commerce. The new Commission that was intended for us
is not yet come to hand. With great Respect, I have the
honour to be, Sir, &c. B. FRANKLIN.

1443. FROM MAXIMILIEN-MARIE-ISIDORE
ROBESPIERRE TO BENJAMIN FRANKLIN1

(U. OF P.)
MONSIEUR

Une sentence de proscription rendue par les echevins de St. Omer centre
les conducteurs 61ectriques m'a presente 1'occasion de plaider au conseil
d'Artois la cause d'une decouverte sublime, dont le genre humain vous est
redevable. Le desir de contribuer a deraciner les prejuges qui s'opposoient
a ses pr ogres dans notre province m'a porte a faire imprimer le plaidoyer que

1 See supra, Vol. I, p. 105. — ED.

102 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1783

j'ai prononce dans cette affaire. J'ose espirer, Monsieur, que vous daignerer
recevoir avec bonte un exemplaire de cet ouvrage, dont Pobjet etoit d'engager
mes concitoiens a accepter un de vos bienfaits; heureux d'avoir pu Stre utile
a mon pays, en determinant ses premiers magistrats a accueillir cette im-
portante decouverte; plus heureux encore si je puis joindre a cet avantage
Phonneur d'obtenir le suffrage d'un homme dont le moindre merite est d'etre
le plus illustre scavant de 1'univers.

J'ai I'honneur d'Stre avec respect
Monsieur

Votre tres humble
et tres obeissant serviteur

A Arras le I 8bre 1783 de Robespierre, avocat

au conseil d'Artois.

1444. TO SIR EDWARD NEWENHAM1

Passy, Oct. 2, 1783.

DEAR SIR,

I have just received your very kind letter of the i6th past.
I rejoice sincerely to hear of your safe return to your own coun-
try, family, and friends, and of the success of your election.

It is a pleasing reflection, arising from the contemplation
of our successful struggle, and the manly, spirited, and unani-
mous resolves at Dungannon, that liberty, which some years
since appeared in danger of extinction, is now regaining the
ground she had lost, that arbitrary governments are likely
to become more mild and reasonable, and to expire by degrees,
giving place to more equitable forms ; one of the effects this
of the art of printing, which diffuses so general a light, aug-
menting with the growing day, and of so penetrating a nature,
that all the window-shutters despotism and priestcraft can
oppose to keep it out, prove insufficient.

In answer to your question respecting what may be neces-

1 From " The Private Correspondence of Benjamin Franklin," Vol. I,
p. 454- — ED.

1783] TO THOMAS BRAND HOLLIS 103

sary to fix a trade between Ireland and America, I may ac-
quaint you between ourselves, that there is some truth in the
report you may have heard, of our desiring to know of Mr.
Hartley whether he was empowered or instructed to include
Ireland in the treaty of commerce proposed to us, and of his
sending for instructions on that head, which never arrived.
That treaty is yet open, may possibly be soon resumed ; and
it seems proper, that something should be contained in it to
prevent the doubts and misunderstandings that may here-
after arise on the subject, and secure to Ireland the same ad-
vantages in trade that England may obtain. You can best
judge whether some law or resolution of your Parliament
may not be of use towards gaining that point.

My grandson joins me in wishes of every kind of felicity
for you, Lady Newenham, and all your amiable family. God
bless you, and give success to your constant endeavours for
the welfare of your country. With true and great respect and

esteem, I have the honour to be, &c.

B. FRANKLIN.

1445. TO THOMAS BRAND HOLLIS1

(L. C.)
Passy, near Paris, Octor 5, 1783.

Sm,

I received but lately (tho* sent in June) your most valuable
present of the Memoirs of Thomas Hollis, Esf, who was
truly, as you describe him in your letter, "a good Citizen of
the World, and a faithful Friend of America." America,

1 Thomas Brand, upon inheriting the property of Thomas Hollis, assumed
the name of Hollis. The Memoirs of Thomas Hollis were published by Francis
Blackburne . — ED.

io4 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1783

too, is extremely sensible of his Benevolence and great Benefi-
cence towards her, and will ever revere his Memory. These
Volumes are a Proof of what I have sometimes had occasion
to say, in encouraging People to undertake difficult Public
Services, that it is prodigious the quantity of Good that may be
done by one Man, if he will make a Business of it. It is
equally surprizing to think of the very little that is done by
many; for, such is the general Frivolity of the Employments
and Amusements of the rank we call Gentlemen, that every
Century may have seen three successions of a set of a thousand
each, in every kingdom of Europe, (Gentlemen too, of equal
or superior Fortune,) no one of which sets, in the course of
their lives, has done the good effected by this Man alone !
Good, not only to his own nation, and to his cotemporaries,
but to distant Countries, and to late Posterity ; for such must
be the effect of his multiplying and distributing Copies of the
Works of our best English Writers, on Subjects the most
important to the Welfare of Society.

I knew him personally but little. I sometimes met with
him at the Royal Society and the Society of Arts; but he
appeared shy of my acquaintance, tho he often sent me valu-
able Presents, such as Hamilton's Works,1 Sidney's Works,
&c., which are now among the most precious ornaments of
my Library. We might possibly, if we had been more intimate,
have concerted some useful operations together ; but he loved
to do his good alone and secretly ; and I find besides, in perus-
ing these Memoirs, that I was a doubtful Character with him.

1 There is here probably a fault of memory in regard to the name of the
author ; or perhaps an error of the press. The work alluded to, may have
been "Toland's Life of Milton," an elegant edition of which was published by
Thomas Hollis. — S.

1783] TO SIR JOSEPH BANKS 105

I do not respect him less for his Error ; and I am obliged to
the Editors for the Justice they have done me. They have
made a little mistake in page 400, where a Letter, which ap-
peared in a London Paper, January yth, 1768, is said to have
been written by Mr. Adams. It was written by me, and is re-
printed in Mr. Vaughan's Collection of my Political Pieces,
p. 231. This Eratum is of no great importance, but may be
corrected in a future Edition.

I see Mr. Hollis had a Collection of curious Medals. If
he had been still living, I should certainly have sent him one
of the Medals that I have caused to be struck here. I think
the countenance of my Liberty would have pleased him.
I suppose you possess the Collection, and have the same
taste. I beg you therefore to accept of one of these Medals
as a mark of my Respect, and believe me to be, with sincere
esteem, &c. B. FRANKLIN.

1446. TO SIR JOSEPH BANKS (u. OF p.)

Passy, Oct. 8, 1783

SIR,

The Publick were promis'd a printed particular Account
of the Rise & Progress of the Balloon Invention, to be pub-
lish'd about the End of last Month. I waited for it, to send
it to you expecting it would be more satisfactory than any thing
I could write ; but it does not yet appear. We have only at
present the enclos'd Pamphlet which does not answer the
Expectation given us. I send you with it some Prints. That
of the Balloon lately rais'd at Versailles is said to be an exact
Representation. I was not present, but am told it was fill'd
in about ten minutes by means of burning Straw. Some say

106 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1783

Water was thrown into the Flame, others that it was Spirits
of Sal Volatile. It was suppos'd to have risen about 200
Toises : But did not continue long at that height, was car-
ried horizontally by the Wind and descended gently as the Air
within grew cooler. So vast a Bulk when it began to rise so
majestically in the Air, struck the Spectators with Surprise
and Admiration. The Basket contain'd a Sheep, a Duck
& a Cock, who except the Cock received no Hurt by the Fall.
The Duke de Crillon made a Feast last Week in the Bois
de Boulogne just by my Habitation, on Occasion of the Birth
of two Spanish Princes. After the Fireworks, we had a
Balloon of about 5 feet Diameter, fill'd with permanent in-
flammable Air. It was dismiss'd about One o' Clock in the
Morning. It carried under it a large Lanthorn with Inscrip-
tions on its Sides. The Night was quite calm and clear, so
that it went right up. The Appearance of the Light dimin-
ish'd gradually till it appear'd no bigger than one of the
Stars, and in about 20 minutes I lost sight of it entirely. It
fell the next Day on the other side of the same Wood near the
Village Boulogne, about half after 12, having been suspended
in the Air n hours and a half. It lodg'd in a Tree, and was
torn in getting it down; so that it cannot be ascertain'd
whether it burst when above or not, tho' that is suppos'd.
Smaller Repetitions of the Experiment are making every
day in all Quarters. Some of the larger Balloons that have
been up, are preparing to be sent up again, in a few Days ;
but I do not hear of any material Improvements yet made
either in the mechanical or chemical Parts of the Operation.
Most is expected from the new one undertaken upon Subscrip-
tion by Messieurs Charles & Robert, who are Men of Science
and mechanical Dexterity. It is to carry up a Man. I send

1783] TO DAVID HARTLEY 107

you enclos'd the Proposals, which it is said are already
subscribed to by a considerable Number, and likely to be
carried into Execution. If I am well at the Time, I
purpose to be present, being a Subscriber myself, and shall
send you an exact Account of Particulars.

With great Esteem and Respect for yourself and the
Society ; I have the honour to be,
Sir,

1447. TO DAVID HARTLEY1 (p. c.)

Passy Oct 16, 1783
MY DEAR FRIEND,

I have nothing material to write to you respecting public
affairs, but I cannot let Mr. Adams who will see you go with-
out a line, to inquire after your welfare, to inform you of
mine, & to assure you of my constant respect and attachment.

I think with you, that your Quaker article is a good one,
and that men will in time have sense enough to adopt it, but
I fear that time is not yet come.

What would you think of a proposition, if I sh'd make it,
of a family compact between England, France, and America?
America wd be as happy as the Sabine Girls, if she cd be the
means of uniting in perpetual peace her father and her hus-
band. What repeated follies are these repeated wars ! You do
not want to conquer & govern one another. Why then sh'd
you continually be employed in injuring & destroying one
another? How many excellent things might have been done
to promote the internal welfare of each country ; what Bridges,
roads, canals, and other usefull public works & institutions,

1 From the private collection of Mrs. L. Z. Leiter. — ED.

io8 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1783

tending to the common felicity, might have been made and
established with the money and men foolishly spent during
the last seven centuries by our mad wars in doing one another
mischief! You are near neighbours, and each have very
respectable qualities. Learn to be quiet and to respect each
other's rights. You are all Christians. One is The Most
Christian King, and the other Defender of the Faith. Mani-
fest the propriety of these titles by your future conduct. " By
this," says Christ, "shall all men know that ye are my Dis-
ciples, if ye love one another." "Seek peace, and ensue it."

Adieu.

Yours most affectionately

B. FRANKLIN.

1448. TO EDWARD NAIRNE

Passy, October 18, 1783.

DEAR SIR,

I received your favour of August 14th,1 by Mr. Sykes, with
the book of directions for using your patent electric machine.
The machine itself is also come to hand in good order, after
some delay on the road ; and I think it very ingeniously con-
trived indeed ; I wish your success in the sale may be equal
to its merits. The experiments in your pamphlet gave me
pleasure, and I shall be glad to see the account you mention
of the shortening of wires by lightning.

What you have heard of the eyes of sheep forced out by a
stroke of lightning which killed them, puts me in mind of hav-
ing formerly seen at Philadelphia six horses all killed by light-
ning in a stable, every one of whom appeared to have bled at

1 This letter is in A. P. S. — ED.

1783] TO DAVID HARTLEY 109

the eyes, nose, and mouth ; though I do not recollect that any
of their eyes were out.1

You are so good as to consider how much my time has been
taken up, and to excuse on that account my being a bad corre-
spondent. Near three years ago I began a letter to you on the
subject of hygrometers. I had written three folio pages of it,
when I was interrupted by some business ; and, before I had
time to finish it, I had mislaid it. I have now found it, and,
having added what I suppose I had intended to add, I enclose
it. You can judge better than myself, whether my idea of
such an instrument is practicable and may be useful.

If you favour me with another line, let me know how Mrs.
Nairne does, and your amiable children. With great esteem,
&c. B. FRANKLIN.

1449. TO DAVID HARTLEY2

Passy, Oct. 22, 1783.

I received my dear friend's kind letter of the 4th instant
from Bath with your proposed temporary convention, which
you desire me to show to my colleagues. They are both by
this time in London, where you will undoubtedly see and con-

1 " I have lately met with a circumstance of the effects of Lightning which I
never heard of before. My authority is part of a letter from the Duke of
Marlborough to Professor Hornby of Oxford, who is now at Ramsgate for his
Health, where he read it to me. A Gentleman told the Duke that in the Storm
of Lightning which happened lately in Oxfordshire he had several of his Sheep
killed under a Tree. I think it was thirteen, & that when they came to examine
them, they found that everyone of them had the Balls of their Eyes forced out."
(Nairne). — ED.

a From " The Private Correspondence of Benjamin Franklin," Vol. II, p.
408. — ED.

no THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1783

verse with them on the subject. The apprehension you men-
tion, that the cement of the confederation may be annihilated,
&c., has not, I think, any foundation. There is sense enough
in America to take care of their own china vase.1 I see much
in your papers about our divisions and distractions, but I
hear little of them from America ; and I know that most of
the letters, said to come from there with such accounts,
are mere London fictions. I will consider attentively the
proposition above mentioned, against the return of my col-
leagues, when I hope our commission will have arrived.

I rejoice to hear that your dear sister's recovery advances,
and that your brother is well. Please to present my affection-
ate respects to them, and believe me ever yours, &c.

B. FRANKLIN.

1450. TO ELIAS BOUDINOT (L. c.)

Passy, Nov. i, 1783.

SIR,

Inclosed is a copy of my last, which went by the English
Pacquet. I heard after I wrote it, that, the French Packet
putting back by contrary winds, Mr. Thaxter had an oppor-
tunity of getting on board her, and that she sailed the 26th of
September.

The mentioned new Commission is not yet come to hand.
Mr. Hartley is not returned, and I hear will stay for the meet-
ing of Parliament, which is to be the nth instant, and not
come hither till the Recess of the Christmas Holidays. Mr.
Jay went to England about three weeks since on some per-

1 A reference to Franklin's familiar comparison of the British Empire to a
China vase : 'twere a great pity to break it. — ED.

1783] TO ELI AS BOUDINOT in

sonal affairs ; and Mr. Adams followed last week to see that
Country, and take some Exercise during the vacancy of
Business.

This Court is now at Fontainebleau, but will return to Ver-
sailles in a few days. Its good Disposition towards us con-
tinues. The late failure of payment in the Caisse d'Escompte,
an institution similar to the Bank of England, occasioned
partly by its having gone too far in assisting the government
with Money, and the Inability of the Government to support
their Credit, tho extremely desirous of doing it, is a fresh Proof
that our not obtaining a farther Loan was not occasioned
by want of Good will to assist us, as some have unjustly sup-
posed, but by a real want of the Means. Money is at present
unaccountably scarce here; what is arrived and expected in
Spain since the Peace, it is thought, will set things to rights.
The Govern* has proposed a second Lottery for this year, by
which they borrow 24 Millions, and it filled readily. This
helps, and the Caisse d'Escompte goes on again with its
operations; but it is said the Interest paid by the Lottery
Plan is nearly 7 per cent.

I have received the Duplicates of your Excellency's Letter
of the i $th July, to the Commissioners, which is very satis-
factory, tho' it came to hand but lately. The first, sent vid
New York, has not yet appeared. I have sent Copies of it
to the Hague and Madrid. The substance is published in
several Papers.

I have acquainted the Minister of Sweden, that I have
received the Ratification of the Treaty; and he has writ-
ten to me, that he shall be in town in a few days, when he
will make the Exchange. The conclusion of the Danish
Treaty waits only for the Commission and Instructions from

ii2 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1783

Congress. The Ambassador of Portugal informed me lately,
that his Court had our proposed Plan under Consideration,
and that we should soon hear from them. I sent it to Con-
gress by Barney, and hear the Ship is arrived. A Commis-
sion and Instructions will be wanting for that also, should the
Congress be disposed to conclude a Treaty with that Nation.

I see by the Public Prints that the Congress have ratified
the Contract I made with the Minister here, respecting the
Loans and Aids we had received ; but the Ratification itself,
tho' directed to be sent me, has never come to hand, and I
am often asked for it. I beg it may be forwarded by the first
opportunity.

There has been with me lately M. Pierre du Calvet, a
Merchant of Montreal, who, when our army was in Canada,
furnished our Generals and Officers with many things they
wanted, taking their Receipts and Promisory notes for pay-
ment; and, when the English repossessed the Country, he
was imprisoned, and his Estate seized, on account of the ser-
vices he had rendered us. He has shown me the Originals
of his Papers, which I think are genuine. He produced also
a quantity of Congress Paper, which he says he received in pay-
ment for some of the Supplies, and which appeared to me of
our first Emissions, and yet all fresh and clean, as having
passed thro' no other hands. When he was discharged from
Prison, he could not obtain permission to go into the United
States to claim the Debt, but was allowed to go to England ;
and from thence he came hither to sollicit payment from me.
Having no authority to meddle with such Debts, and the sum
being considerable, I refused, and advised him to take Pas-
sage for America, and make his application to Congress. He
said he was grown old, much broken and weakned by near

1783] TO SIR JOSEPH BANKS 113

three years* Imprisonment, and that the voyage from Canada
to London had like to have been too much for him, he being
sick all the Way ; so that he could not think of another, tho'
Distressed for want of his Money. He appears an honest
Man, and his case a hard one. I have therefore undertaken
to forward his Papers, and I beg leave to recommend them
to the speedy Consideration of Congress, to whom I request
you would be pleased to present my dutiful respects, and
assure them of my most faithful Services. With great

Esteem and Regard, &c.

B. FRANKLIN.

1451. TO SIR JOSEPH BANKS (u. of p.)

Passy, Nov. 21, 1783 —

DEAR SIR,

I received your friendly Letter of the 7th Inst. I am glad
my Letters respecting the Aerostatic Experiment were not un-
acceptable. But as more perfect Accounts of the Construc-
tion and Management of that Machine have been and will
be published before your Transactions, and from which Ex-
tracts may be made that will be more particular & therefore
more satisfactory, I think it best not to print those Letters.
I say this in answer to your Question for I did not indeed write
them with a view of their being inserted. M. Faujas de St.
Fond acquainted me yesterday, that a Book on the Subject
which has been long expected, will be publish'd in a few Days,
and I shall send you one of them. Enclos'd is a Copy of the
Proces verbal taken of the Experiment made yesterday in the
Garden of the Queen's Palace la Muette where the Dauphin
now resides, which being near my House I was present. This

VOL. IX — I

ii4 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1783

Paper was drawn up hastily, & may in some Places appear
to you obscure; therefore I shall add a few explanatory
Observations.

This Balloon was larger than that which went up from Ver-
sailles, and carried the Sheep, &c. Its Bottom was open,
and in the middle of the Opening was fix'd a kind of Basket
Grate in which Faggots and Sheaves of Straw were burnt.
The Air rarified in passing thro' this Flame rose in the Bal-
loon, swell'd out its Sides & fill'd it.

The Persons who were plac'd in the Gallery made of
Wicker, and attach'd to the Outside near the Bottom, had
each of them a Post thro' which they could pass Sheaves of
Straw into the Grate to keep up the Flame, & thereby keep
the Balloon full. When it went over our Heads, we could see
the Fire which was very considerable. As the Flame slack-
ens, the rarified Air cools and condenses, the Bulk of the Bal-
loon diminishes and it begins to descend. If these in the
Gallery see it likely to descend in an improper Place they can,
by throwing on more Straw, & renewing the Flame, make it
rise again, and the Wind carries it farther.

La Machine poussee par le Vent s'est dirigZe sur une des
Allies du Jardin. That is, against the Trees of one of the
Walks. The Gallery hitch'd among the top Boughs of those
Trees which had been cut and were stiff, while the Body of the
Balloon lean'd beyond & seem'd likely to overset. I was
then in great Pain for the Men, thinking them in danger of
being thrown out, or burnt; for I expected that the Bal-
loon being no longer upright, the Flame would have laid
hold of the Inside that lean'd over it. But by means of some
Cords that were still attach'd to it, it was soon brought up-
right again, made to descend, & carried back to its place. It
was however much damag'd.

1783] TO SIR JOSEPH BANKS 115

Planant sur I'Horizon. When they were as high as they
chose to be, they made less Flame, and suffer'd the Ma-
chine to drive horizontally with the Wind, of which however
they felt very little, as they went with it, and as fast. They
say they had a charming View of Paris & its Environs, the
Course of the River, &c. but that they were once lost, not
knowing what Part they were over, till they saw the Dome
of the Invalids, which rectified their Ideas. Probably while
they were employ'd in keeping up the Fire, the Machine
might turn, and by that means they were desorienU as the
French call it.

There was a vast Concourse of Gentry in the Garden, who
had great Pleasure in seeing the Adventures go off so chear-
fully, & applauded them by clapping, &c. but there was at
the same time a good deal of Anxiety for their Safety. Mul-
titudes in Paris saw the Balloon passing; but did not know
there were Men with it, it being then so high that they could
not see them.

Developant du Gaz. That is, in plain English, burning
more Straw; for tho' there is a little Mystery made, concern-
ing the kind of Air with which the Balloon is filFd I conceive
it to be nothing more than hot Smoke or common Air rari-
fy'd, — tho' in this I may be mistaken ; —

Ayant encore dans leur Galerie le deux tiers de leur appro-
visionment. That is, their Provision of Straw; of which
they carried up a great Quantity. It was well that in the
hurry of so hazardous an Experiment, the Flame did not hap-
pen by any accidental Mismanagement to lay hold of this
Straw; tho' each had a Bucket of Water by him, by way of
Precaution.

One of these courageous Philosophers, the Marquis d'Ar-

Ii6 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1783

landes, did me the Honour to call upon me in the Evening
after the Experiment with Mr. Mongolfier the very ingenious
Inventor. I was happy to see him safe. He inform'd me
they lit gently without the least Shock, and the Balloon was
very little damag'd.

[This method of filling the balloon with hot air is cheap
and expeditious, and it is supposed may be sufficient for cer-
tain purposes, such as elevating an engineer to take a view
of an enemy's army, works, etc., conveying intelligence into
or out of a besieged town, giving signals to distant places, or
the like.

[The other method of filling a balloon with permanently
elastic inflammable air, and then closing it, is a tedious opera-
tion, and very expensive ; yet we are to have one of that kind
sent up in a few days. It is a globe of twenty-six feet diameter.
The gores that compose it are red and white silk, so that it
makes a beautiful appearance. A very handsome triumphal
car will be suspended to it, in which Messrs. Robert, two
brothers, very ingenious men, who have made it in concert
with Mr. Charles, propose to go up. There is room in
this car for a little table to be placed between them, on which
they can write and keep their journal ; that is, take notes of
everything they observe, the state of their thermometer, ba-
rometer, hygrometer, etc., which they will have more leisure
to do than the others, having no fire to take care of. They
say they have a contrivance which will enable them to de-
scend at pleasure. I know not what it is, but the expense of
this machine, filling included, will exceed, it is said, ten thou-
sand livres.

[This balloon of only twenty-six feet diameter, being filled
with air ten times lighter than common air, will carry up a

1783] TO SIR JOSEPH BANKS 117

greater weight than the other, which though vastly bigger,
was filled with an air that could scarcely be more than twice
as light. Thus the great bulk of one of these machines, with
the short duration of its power, and the great expense of fill-
ing the other, will prevent the invention being of so much use
as some may expect, till chemistry can invent a cheaper light
air producible with more expedition.

[By the emulation between the two parties running high, the
improvement in the construction and management of the bal-
loons has already made a rapid progress, and one cannot say
how far it may go. A few months since the idea of witches
riding thro* the air upon a broomstick, and that of philoso-
phers upon a bag of smoke, would have appeared equally
impossible and ridiculous.

[These machines must always be subject to be driven by
the winds. Perhaps mechanic art may find easy means to
give them progressive motion in a calm, and to slant them
a little in the wind.

[I am sorry this experiment is totally neglected in England,
where mechanic genius is so strong. I wish I could see the
same emulation between the two nations as I have seen the
two parties here. Your philosophy seems to be too bashfuL
In this country we are not so much afraid of being laughed at.
If we do a foolish thing, we are the first to laugh at it ourselves,,
and are almost as much pleased with a bonmot or a good
chanson, that ridicules well the disappointment of a project,
as we might have been with its success. It does not seem
to me a good reason to decline prosecuting a new experiment
which apparently increases the power of a man over matter,
till we can see to what use that power may be applied. When
we have learnt to manage it, we may hope some time or other

Ii8 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1783

to find use for it, as men have done for magnetism and elec-
tricity, for which the first experiments were mere matters of
amusement.

[This experiment is by no means a trifling one. It may be
attended with important consequences that no one can fore-
see. We should not suffer pride to prevent our progress in
science.

[Beings of a frank and [sic] nature far superior to ours have
not disdained to amuse themselves with making and launch-
ing balloons, otherwise we should never have enjoyed the light
of those glorious objects that rule our day and night, nor have
had the pleasure of riding round the sun ourselves upon the
balloon we now inhabit.

[With great and sincere esteem, I am, dear sir, your most
obedient and most humble servant,

B. FRANKLIN.

P. S. Nov. 25th. — The proce*s verbal to which this letter
relates went by last post. I have now got the within men-
tioned book, but it being too bulky to send by post, I shall
try to get it forwarded to you by the Duke of Manchester's
courier, who goes usually on Thursdays. I enclose one of
the plates of it, which gives a perfect representation of the
last great balloon. You can put it in its place when you
receive the book. B. F.] l

1 The paragraphs enclosed in brackets are not found in the draft in U. of
P., but exist in a letter press copy now (March, 1906) owned by Dodd, Mead,
& Co. — ED.

1783] TO SIR JOSEPH BANKS 119

1452. TO SIR JOSEPH BANKS l (P. c.)

Passy, December i. 1783.

DEAR SIR : — In mine of yesterday I promised to give you
an account of Messrs. Charles & Robert's experiment, which
was to have been made this day, and at which I intended to
be present. Being a little indisposed, and the air cool, and
the ground damp, I declined going into the garden of the
Tuileries, where the balloon was placed, not knowing how
long I might be obliged to wait there before it was ready to
depart, and chose to stay in my carriage near the statue of
Louis XV., from whence I could well see it rise, and have an
extensive view of the region of air through which, as the wind
sat, it was likely to pass. The morning was foggy, but about
one o'clock the air became tolerably clear, to the great satis-
faction of the spectators, who were infinite, notice having
been given of the intended experiment several days before in
the papers, so that all Paris was out, either about the Tuileries,
on the quays and bridges, in the fields, the streets, at the win-
dows, or on the tops of houses, besides the inhabitants of all
the towns and villages of the environs. Never before was a
philosophical experiment so magnificently attended. Some
guns were fired to give notice that the departure of the balloon
was near, and a small one was discharged, which went to an
amazing height, there being but little wind to make it deviate
from its perpendicular course, and at length the sight of it was
lost. Means were used, I am told, to prevent the great bal-
loon's rising so high as might endanger its bursting. Several

1 Letter press copy in possession of Dodd, Mead, & Co. — ED.

120 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1783

bags of sand were taken on board before the cord that held
it down was cut, and the whole weight being then too much
to be lifted, such a quantity was discharged as to permit its
rising slowly. Thus it would sooner arrive at that region
where it would be in equilibrio with the surrounding air,
and by discharging more sand afterwards, it might go higher
if desired. Between one and two o'clock, all eyes were grati-
fied with seeing it rise majestically from among the trees,
and ascend gradually above the buildings, a most beautiful
spectacle. When it was about two hundred feet high, the
brave adventurers held out and waved a little white pen-
nant, on both sides their car, to salute the spectators, who re-
turned loud claps of applause. The wind was very little,
so that the object though moving to the northward, continued
long in view; and it was a great while before the admiring
people began to disperse. The persons embarked were Mr.
Charles, professor of experimental philosophy, and a zealous
promoter of that science ; and one of the Messieurs Robert,
the very ingenious constructors of the machine. When it
arrived at its height, which I suppose might be three or four
hundred toises, it appeared to have only horizontal motion.
I had a pocket-glass, with which I followed it, till I lost sight
first of the men, then of the car, and when I last saw the bal-
loon, it appeared no bigger than a walnut. I write this at
seven in the evening. What became of them is not yet known
here. I hope they descended by daylight, so as to see and
avoid falling among trees or on houses, and that the experiment
was completed without any mischievous accident, which the
novelty of it and the want of experience might well occasion.
I am the more anxious for the event, because I am not well
informed of the means provided for letting themselves down,

1783] TO SIR JOSEPH BANKS 121

and the loss of these very ingenious men would not only
be a discouragement to the progress of the art, but be a sensi-
ble loss to science and society.

I shall enclose one of the tickets of admission, on which the
globe was represented, as originally intended, but is altered
by the pen to show its real state when it went off. When the
tickets were engraved the car was to have been hung to the
neck of the globe, as represented by a little drawing I have
made in the corner.

I suppose it may have been an apprehension of danger in
straining too much the balloon or tearing the silk, that
induced the constructors to throw a net over it, fixed to a
hoop which went round its middle, and to hang the car to
that hoop.

Tuesday morning, December 2d. — I am relieved from my
anxiety by hearing that the adventurers descended well near
L'Isle Adam before sunset. This place is near seven leagues
from Paris. Had the wind blown fresh they might have gone
much farther.

If I receive any further particulars of importance, I shall
communicate them hereafter.

With great esteem, I am, dear sir, your most obedient
and most humble servant, B. FRANKLIN.

P. S. Tuesday evening. — Since writing the above I have
received the printed paper and the manuscript containing
some particulars of the experiment, which I enclose. I hear
further that the travellers had perfect command of their car-
riage, descending as they pleased by letting some of the in-
flammable air escape, and rising again by discharging some
sand ; that they descended over a field so low as to talk with

122 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1783

the labourers in passing, and mounted again to pass a hill.
The little balloon falling at Vincennes shows that mounting
higher it met with a current of air in a contrary direction, an
observation that may be of use to future aerial voyagers.

1453. TO HENRY LAURENS (L. c.)

Passy, Dec. 6. 1783.

DEAR SIR : — I received your kind Letter of the 28th past,
and I send you herewith the anonymous Brussels Letter, as
you desire.1 When I had last the Pleasure of seeing you at
Passy, I forgot to mention to you that Mr. Ridley, soon after
your Departure for the south of France, calPd upon me with
a Request that I would let him see that Letter, and then that
I would let him take it home with him, which I comply'd
with, understanding it was to show it to Mr. Adams. Some
Days after he acquainted me that the Handwriting was like
that of M. de Neufville's Clerk, and propos'd to have it com-
pared with some of Neufville's Letters in my Possession, which
at his Desire I lent him. When he return'd them he remarked
some Similarities, which I did not think very striking. What
appeared most so to me at the time was the very long Stroke
or Dash of the Pen across the Top of the small /, thus /, tho'
I did not think that conclusive; and I have since observed
it to be a more general Practice in Writing than I imagin'd.
I indeed seldom make that Mark to my *'s, except when they
are double ; Yet I find when I do make it, it is nearly as long
as in the Brussels Letter; and I see in your last that you do

1 The letter from Charles de Weissenstein. — ED.

1783] TO HENRY LAURENS 123

the same, the Dash sometimes passing over the whole word in
which the / is placed. I saw neither Mr. Barclay nor Mr.
Adams on that Occasion, but Mr. Ridley only. I suppose the
Opinion you mention as pronounc'd, might be by them at
Auteuil. I enclose the other anonymous, and the two Letters
of Neufville, that you may compare them and judge for
yourself.

We think of nothing here at present but of Flying ; the Bal-
loons engross all Conversation. Messrs. Charles and Robert
made a Trip last Monday thro' the Air to a Place farther dis-
tant than Dover is from Calais ; and could have gone much
farther if there had been more Wind and Daylight. They
have perfect Command of the Machine, descending and rising
again at pleasure. The Progress made in the Management
of it has been rapid, yet I fear it will hardly become a common
Carriage in my time, tho' being the easiest of all Voitures it
would be extreamly convenient to me, now that my Malady
forbids the Use of the old ones over a Pavement.

The kind Enquiry made respecting me by the Person you
mention does not surprize me. He is so unequal in his Tem-
per, and so different from himself on different Occasions, that
I should not wonder if he sometimes lov'd me.

The promis'd Commission is not yet come to my hands,
nor have I any Advices from the Congress later than the Qth
of September.

My Grandson joins me in affectionate Respects to you and
Miss Laurens, and best Wishes for your Health and Pros-
perity. With great and sincere Esteem I am ever, etc.,

B. FRANKLIN.

124 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1783

1454. TO COMTE DE VERGENNES

(P. A. E. E. U.)
(L. C.)
Passy, December 6, 1783.

SIR, Being now disabled by the Stone which in the easiest
Carriage gives me Pain, wounds my Bladder, and occasions
me to make bloody Urine, I find I can no longer pay my
Devoirs personally at Versailles, which I hope will be excused.
I have yet received from Congress no Answer to my Request
of being recall'd. In the meantime I must beg your Excel-
lency to receive my Respects by my Grandson, with such
Matters as I may occasionally have to communicate, he being
Secretary of the Legation. I am, with great and sincere
Respect, sir, etc., B. FRANKLIN.

1455. TO WILLIAM HODGSON (A. p. s.)
DEAR SIR Passy Dec. 10. 1783

Having represented to Congress the Services rendered to
our Prisoners by the Rev? Mr Wren, I have the Pleasure of
transmitting their Thanks, together with a Diploma from the
College at Princetown,1 which I beg you would forward to him
with my Respects. I shall not fail to recommend my Friend
for the Consulship,2 being with unalterable Esteem & Affec-
tion TV c.
Dear Sir,

Your most o. & m. h. S.

B. FRANKLIN.

Charge me with this Postage & that to Portsmouth

1 See letter to Robert R. Livingston, July 22, 1783. — ED.

2 See this recommendation in a letter to Thomas Mifflin, President of Con-
gress, December 26, 1783. — ED.

1783] TO COMTE DE VERGENNES 125

1456. TO SIR JOSEPH BANKS (u. of P.)

Passy, Dec. 15. 1783

DEAR SIR,

You have probably had enough of my Correspondence
on the Subject of the Balloons, yet I cannot forbear sending
you Mr Charles's Account of his Voyage, which contains some
Circumstances that are curious & Interesting. And per-
haps you may for a Conclusion have one more Letter from me
by him, if he makes the Flight said to be intended the first
fair Wind from Paris to London.
With great Esteem, I am ever Dear Sir,

Your most obedient

Servant
B. FRANKLIN.

1457. TO COMTE DE VERGENNES (P. A. E. E. u.)

Passy, December 15, 1783

SIR: — I understand that the bishop or spiritual person
who superintends or governs the Roman Catholic clergy
in the United States of America resides in London, and is
supposed to be under obligations to that court, and subject
to be influenced by its ministers. This gives me some uneasi-
ness, and I cannot but wish that one should be appointed to
that office who is of this nation and who may reside there
among our friends. I beg your Excellency to think a little of
this matter, and to afford me your counsels upon it.1 With
the greatest respect, I am, sir, etc., R FRANKLIN.

1 The vicar-apostolic of London at this time had ecclesiastical jurisdiction
over the Roman Catholics of the United States. The fear of the inOuence

126 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1783

1458. TO WILLIAM CARMICHAEL1

Passy, December 15, 1783.

MY DEAR FRIEND,

I am much concerned to find by your letter to my grandson,
that you are hurt by my long silence, and that you ascribe it
to a supposed diminution of my friendship. Believe me, that
is by no means the case ; but I am too much harassed by a
variety of correspondence, together with gout and gravel,
which induce me to postpone doing what I often fully intend
to do, and particularly writing, where the urgent necessity of
business does not seem to require its being done immediately,
my sitting too much at the desk having already almost killed
me; besides, since Mr. Jay's residence here, I imagined he
might keep you fully informed of what was material for you
to know; and I beg you to be assured of my constant and
sincere esteem and affection.

I do not know whether you have been informed, that a Mr.
Montgomery, who lives at Alicant, took upon himself (for
I think he had no authority) to make overtures last winter,
in behalf of our States, towards a treaty with the Emperor of
Morocco. In consequence of his proceedings I received a
letter in August from a person, who acquainted me, that he
was arrived in Spain by the Emperor's order, and was to come
to Paris, there to receive and conduct to Morocco the minister

which the English spiritual head might exert over the Irish Catholics caused
Franklin to write this letter to Count de Vergennes, and also to consult upon
the same subject with M*. de Cice, archbishop of Bordeaux. Rev. John
Carroll was appointed superior of the clergy of the United States in 1784. —
ED.

1 From " Diplomatic Correspondence " (Sparks), Vol. II, p. 492.— ED.

1783] TO WILLIAM CARMICHAEL 127

of Congress appointed to make that treaty, intimating at the
same time an expectation of money to defray his expenses.
I communicated the letter to Mr. Jay. The conduct of Mr.
Montgomery appeared to us very extraordinary and irregular ;
and the idea of a messenger from Morocco coming to Paris
to meet and conduct a minister of Congress, appearing absurd
and extravagant, as well as the demand of money by a person
unknown, I made no answer to the letter; and I know not
whether Mr. Jay made any to Mr. Montgomery, who wrote
about the same time. But I have lately received another
letter from the same person, a copy of which I enclose, to-
gether with my answer open for your perusal, and it is sub-
mitted to your discretion whether to forward it or not. The
Mr. CroccOy who writes to me, having been, as he says, at
Madrid, you possibly may know more of him than I can, and
judge whether he is really a person in credit with the Emperor,
and sent as he pretends to be, or not rather an Escroc, as the
French call cheats and impostors.

I would not be wanting in any thing proper for me to do
towards keeping that Prince in good humour with us, till the
pleasure of Congress is known, and therefore would answer
Mr. Crocco, if he be in his employ; but am loth to commit
myself in correspondence with a jripon. It will be strange, if,
being at Madrid, he did not address himself to you. With
great and unalterable regard, I am ever, my dear friend, yours
most affectionately, B. FRANKLIN.

128 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1783

1459. TO GIACOMO FRANCESCO CROCCO l

Paris, December 15, 1783.
SIR,

I have just received the letter you did me the honour of
writing to me the 25th past. I did indeed receive your former
letter of July, but, being totally a stranger to the mentioned
proceedings of Mr. Montgomery,2 and having no orders from
Congress on the subject, I knew not how to give you any satis-
factory answer, till I should receive further information ; and
I communicated your letter to Mr. Jay, minister of the United
States for Spain, in whose district Mr. Montgomery is, and
who is more at hand than I am for commencing that negotia-
tion.

Mr. Jay, who is at present in England, has possibly writ-
ten to you, though his letter may have miscarried, to acquaint
you, that Mr. Montgomery had probably no authority from
Congress to take the step he has done, and that it was not
likely, that they, desiring to make a treaty with the Emperor,
would think of putting his Majesty to the trouble of sending
a person to Paris to receive and conduct their minister, since
they have ships, and could easily land him at Cadiz, or present
him at one of the Emperor's ports. We have, however, writ-
ten to Congress, acquainting them with what we had been
informed of the good and favourable disposition of his Im-
perial Majesty to enter into a treaty of amity and commerce
with the United States; and we have no doubt but that, as

1 From " Diplomatic Correspondence of the United States" (Sparks), Vol.
I, P- 373- —ED.

2 Robert Montgomery of Alicant. — ED.

1783] TO THOMAS MIFFLIN 129

soon as their affairs are a little settled, which, by so severe a
war carried on in the bowels of their country by one of the
most powerful nations of Europe, have necessarily been much
deranged, they will readily manifest equally good dispositions,
and take all the proper steps to cultivate and secure the friend-
ship of a monarch, whose character I know they have long

esteemed and respected. I am, Sir, &c.

B. FRANKLIN.

1460. TO THOMAS MIFFLIN1 (L. c.)

Passy, Dec. 25, 1783.

SIR,

Not having heard of the Appointment of a new Secretary
for foreign Affairs, I take the Liberty of addressing this De-
spatch directly to your Excellency. I received by Capt.
Barney a Letter from the late President, directed to the Com-
missioners, dated November the i , with a Set of Instructions,
dated the 2Qth of October, a Resolution of the same Date
respecting Hamburgh, and another of the ist of November,
relating to Capt. Paul Jones, all which will be duly regarded.

Capt. Jones, in passing thro' England, communicated these
Papers to Mr. Adams, then at London. Mr. Adams, dis-
appointed hi not finding among them the Commission we
had been made to expect, empowering us to make a Treaty
of Commerce with England, wrote to me, that he imagin'd
it might be contain'd in a Packet that was directed to me, and
requested to be immediately informed ; adding, that, in case
no such Commission was come, he should depart directly
for Holland; so I suppose he is now there. Mr. Laurens

1 Elected President of Congress, November 3, 1783. — ED.
VOL. IT — K

I3o THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1783

is gone to England, with an Intention of embarking soon for
America. Mr. Jay is at Bath, but expected here daily.
The English Ministers, the Duke of Manchester and Mr.
Hartley, are both at present in Parliament. As soon as
either of them return, we shall endeavour to obtain an
additional Article to the Treaty, explaining that mentioned
in the Instructions.

The Affairs of Ireland are still unsettled. The Parliament
and Volunteers are at variance ; the latter are uneasy, that,
in the late Negociations for a Treaty of Commerce between
England and America, the British Ministers had made no
mention of Ireland, and they seem to desire a separate Treaty
of Commerce between America and that kingdom.

It was certainly disagreable to the English Ministers, that
all their Treaties for Peace were carried on under the Eye of
the French Court. This began to appear towards the Conclu-
sion, when Mr. Hartley refus'd going to Versailles, to sign
there with the other Powers our definitive Treaty, and in-
sisted on its being done at Paris, which we in good humour
comply'd with, but at an earlier Hour, that we might have
time to acquaint le Comte de Vergennes before he was to
sign with the Duke of Manchester.

The Dutch Definitive was not then ready, and the British
Court now insists on finishing it either at London or the Hague.
If, therefore, the Commission to us, which has been so long
delay'd, is still intended, perhaps it will be well to instruct us
to treat either here or at London, as we may find most con-
venient.

The Treaty may be conducted, even there, in Concert
and in the Confidence of Communication with the Ministers
of our Friends, whose Advice may be of Use to us.

1783] TO THOMAS MIFFLIN* 131

With respect to the British Court, we should, I think,
be constantly upon our Guard, and impress strongly upon our
Minds, that, tho' it has made Peace with us, it is not in truth
reconcil'd either to us, or to its loss of us, but still flatters itself
with Hopes, that some Change in the Affairs of Europe, or
some Disunion among ourselves, may afford them an Oppor-
tunity of Recovering their Dominion, punishing those who
have most offended, and securing our future Dependence.
It is easy to see by the general Turn of the Ministerial News-
papers (light things, indeed, as Straws and Feathers, but like
them they show which way the Wind blows), and by the ma-
lignant Improvement their Ministers make, in all the Foreign
Courts, of every little Accident or Dissension among us, the
Riot of a few Soldiers at Philadelphia, the Resolves of some
Town Meetings, the Reluctance to pay Taxes, &c., all which
are exaggerated, to represent our Government as so many
Anarchies, of which the People themselves are weary, and the
Congress as having lost its Influence, being no longer re-
spected ; I say it is easy to see from this Conduct, that they
bear us no good Will, and that they wish the Reality of what
they are pleas'd to imagine. They have, too, a numerous
Royal Progeny to provide for, some of whom are educated in
the military Line. In these Circumstances we cannot be
too careful to preserve the Friendships we have acquired
abroad, and the Union we have established at home, to secure
our Credit by a punctual Discharge of our Obligations of
every kind, and our Reputation by the wisdom of our Coun-
cils : Since we know not how soon we may have a fresh Occa-
sion for Friends, for Credit, and for Reputation.

The extravagant Misrepresentations of our Political State
::n foreign Countries, made it appear necessary to give them

I32 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1783

better Information, which I thought could not be more effec-
tually and authentically done, than by publishing a Transla-
tion into French, now the most general Language in Europe,
of the Book of Constitutions, which had been printed by Order
of Congress. This I accordingly got well done, and presented
two Copies, handsomely bound, to every foreign Minister
here, one for himself, the other more elegant for his Sover-
eign. It has been well taken, and has afforded Matter of
Surprise to many, who had conceived mean Ideas of the State
of Civilization in America, and could not have expected so
much political Knowledge and Sagacity had existed in our Wil-
dernesses. And from all Parts I have the satisfaction to hear,
that our Constitutions in general are much admired. I am
persuaded, that this Step will not only tend to promote the
Emigration to our Country of substantial People from all
Parts of Europe, by the numerous Copies I shall disperse,
but will facilitate our future Treaties with foreign Courts,
who could not before know what kind of Government and
People they had to treat with. As, in doing this, I have
endeavoured to further the apparent Views of Congress in
the first Publication, I hope it may be approved, and the
Expence allowed. I send herewith one of the Copies.

Our Treaties with Denmark and Portugal remain unfin-
ish'd, for want of Instructions respecting them from Congress,
and a Commission empowering some Minister or Ministers
to conclude them. The Emperor of Morocco, we understand,
has expressed a Disposition to make a Treaty of Amity and
Commerce with the United States. A Mr. Montgomery,
who is a Merchant settled at Alicant, has been, it seems,
rather forward in proposing a Negociation, without Authority
for so doing, and has embarrass'd us a little, as may be seen

1783] TO THOMAS MIFFLIN 133

by some Letters I enclose.1 Perhaps it would be well for
the Congress to send a Message to that Prince, expressing
their Respect and Regard for him, till such time as they may
judge it convenient to appoint an Ambassador in form, fur-
nish'd with proper Presents, to make a Treaty with him. The
other Barbary States, too, seem to require Consideration, if we
propose to carry on any Trade in the Mediterranean ; but,
whether the Security of that Trade is of sufficient importance
to be worth purchasing at the Rate of the Tributes usually
exacted by those piratical States, is a matter of doubt, on which
I cannot at present form a Judgment.

I shall immediately proceed, in pursuance of the first In-
struction, to take the proper Steps for acquainting his Imperial
Majesty of Germany with the Dispositions of Congress, hav-
ing some reason to believe the Overture may be acceptable.
His Minister here is of late extreamly civil to me, and we are
on very good Terms. I have likewise an intimate Friend at
that Court.

With respect to other Powers, it seems best not to make
Advances at present, but to meet and encourage them when
made, which I shall not fail to do, as I have already done
those of Sweden, Denmark, and Portugal. Possibly Ham-
burgh, to whom I have forwarded the Letter of Congress,
may send a Minister to America, if they wish for a Treaty,
to conclude it there. They have no Minister here.

I have lately receiv'd a Memorial from the Minister of Den-
mark, respecting a Ship of that Nation, the Providentia,
taken by one of our Privateers and carried into Boston. I en-
close a Copy of it, and request to be furnished with Direc-
tions and Informations for the answer. It may be well to

1 The letters from G. F. Crocco. — ED.

I34 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1783

send me a Copy of the Proceedings in the Courts. From a
Perusal of the Papers communicated with it, I am satisfied
that the Cargo was clearly British Property.

We have hitherto enter'd into no Engagements respecting
the arm'd Neutrality, and, in obedience to the fifth Instruction,
we shall take care to avoid them hereafter. The Treaty
between this Court and the United States, for regulating the
Powers, Privileges, &c. of Consuls, is at length compleated,
and is transcribing in order to be signed. I hope to transmit
a Copy by the next Packet. I have received the Congress
Ratification of the two Money Treaties, which will be soon
exchanged, when I shall send Copies of them with that of
Sweden.

I have given, and shall continue to give, Capt. Paul Jones
all the Assistance in my Power, towards Recovering the Prize
Money; and I hope it may soon be accomplish'd.

When Mr. Jay returns, I shall desire him to make the
Enquiry directed in the fourth Instruction, respecting the
Expedition under that Commodore, and report thereon to
Congress. In the mean time I can answer respecting one of
the Questions, that the King paid the whole Expence, and that
no part of it has ever been plac'd to the Account of Congress.
There exists indeed a Demand of one Puchelberg,1 a Person
in the Employ of M. Schweighauser, of about 30,000 Livres,
for Provisions and other things furnish'd to Capt. Landais,
after he took the Alliance out of the Hands of Capt. Jones:
But, as the Ship was at that time under the King's Supply
who, having borrow'd her for the Expedition when fitted for
Sea and just ready to sail with Mr. Adams, had ordered her
to be deliver'd in the same Condition, free of all Charges ac-
cru'd, or accruing, by her being in Holland and in L'Orient,

1 See supra, Vol. VIII, p. 132. — ED.

1783] TO ROBERT MORRIS 135

and as M. Puchelberg had not only no Orders from me to
furnish Capt. Landais, but acted contrary to my Orders
given to M. Schweighauser, and contrary to the Orders of
M. Schweighauser himself, I refused to pay his Account,
which besides appeared extravagant, and it has never yet
been paid.

I shall do my best in executing the third Instruction, re-
specting our Claim upon Denmark. I have written to London
to obtain, if possible, an Ace1 of the Sums insured upon the
Ships delivered up, as such an Ace* may be some Guide in
the Valuation of the Prizes.

A Captain Williams, formerly in the British Service, and
employed upon the Lakes, has given me a Paper containing
Information of the State of the back Country. As those
Informations may possibly be of some use, I send herewith the
Paper. Mr. Carmichael has sent me the Accounts of the
Money Transactions at Madrid. As soon as Mr. Jay re-
turns, they will be examined.

Be pleased to present my dutiful Respects to Congress, and
assure them of my most faithful Services. With great Esteem
and Regard, I have the honour to be, &c.

B. FRANKLIN.1

1461. TO ROBERT MORRIS (L. c.)

Passy, Dec. 25, 1783.

SIR,

I have received your Favour of the 30th of September, for
which I thank you. My Apprehension, that the Union be-

1 The " Set of Instructions," alluded to in this letter, may be found in the
" Diplomatic Correspondence " (Sparks), Vol. X, p. 222. The resolutions re-
specting Hamburg and Paul Jones are contained in the " Secret Journal of
Congress," Vol. Ill, pp. 416, 430. — S.

136 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1783

tween France and our States might be diminished by Accounts
from hence, was occasioned by the extravagant and violent
Language held here by a Public Person, in public Company,
which had that Tendency ; and it was natural for me to think
his Letters might hold the same Language, in which I was right ;
for I have since had Letters from Boston informing me of it.
Luckily here, and I hope there, it is imputed to the true Cause,
a Disorder in the Brain, which, tho' not constant, has its Fits
too frequent. I will not fill my Letter with an Account of
those Discourses. Mr. Laurens, when you see him, can give
it to you ; I mean such as he heard in Company with other
Persons, for I would not have him relate private Conversa-
tions. They distress'd me much at the time, being then at
your earnest Instances soliciting for more aids of Money;
the Success of which Solicitation such ungrateful and provok-
ing Language might, I feared, have had a Tendency to prevent.
Enough of this at present.

I have been exceedingly hurt and afflicted by the Difficulty
some of your late Bills met with in Holland. As soon as I
receiv'd the Letter from Messrs. Willinck & Co., which I
inclose, I sent for Mr. Grand, who brought me a Sketch of his
Account with you, by which it appeared that the Demands
upon us, existing and expected, would more than absorb
the Funds in his Hands. We could not indulge the smallest
Hope of obtaining further Assistance here, the Public Finances
being in a state of Embarrassment, private Persons full of
Distrust occasioned by the late Stoppage of Payment at the
Caisse d'Escompte, and money in general extreamly scarce.
But he agreed to do what I propos'd, lend his Credit in the
Way of Drawing and Redrawing between Holland and Paris,
to gain Time till you could furnish Funds to reimburse Messrs.

1783] TO ROBERT MORRIS 137

Willenck & Co. I believe he made this Proposition to them
by the Return of the Express. I know not why it was not
accepted. Mr. Grand, I suppose, will himself give you an
Account of all the Transaction, and of his Application to
Messrs. Couteulx & Co. ; therefore, I need not add more upon
this disagreable Subject.

I have found Difficulties in settling the Account of Salaries
with the other Ministers, that have made it impracticable
for me to do it. I have, therefore, after keeping the Bills
that were to have been proportioned among us long in my
hands, given them up to Mr. Grand, who, finding the same
Difficulties, will, I suppose, return them to you. None has
come to hand for the two or three last Quarters, and we are
indebted to his Kindness for advancing us Money, or we must
have run in Debt for our Subsistence. He risques in doing
this, since he has not for it your Orders.

There arise frequently contingent Expences, for which no
provision has yet been made. In a former letter to the Sec-
retary for Foreign Affairs, I gave a List of them, and desired
to know the Pleasure of Congress concerning them. I have
only had for Answer, that they were under Consideration,
and that he believed House-Rent would not be allowed;
but I am still in Uncertainty as to that and the Rest. I wish
some resolutions were taken on this Point of Contingencies,
that I may know how to settle my Accounts with Mr. Barclay.
American Ministers in Europe are too remote from their Con-
stituents to consult them, and take their Orders on every
Occasion, as the Ministers here of European Courts can easily
do. There seems, therefore, a Necessity of allowing more to
their Discretion, and of giving them a Credit to a certain
Amount on some Banker, who may answer their Orders;

138 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1783

for which, however, they should be accountable. I mention
this for the sake of other Ministers, hoping and expecting
soon to be discharg'd myself, and also for the Good of the
Service.

The Remissness of our People in Paying Taxes is highly
blameable; the Unwillingness to pay them is still more so.
I see, in some Resolutions of Town Meetings, a Remonstrance
against giving Congress a Power to take, as they call it, the
People's Money out of their Pockets, tho' only to pay the In-
terest and Principal of Debts duly contracted. They seem
to mistake the Point. Money, justly due from the People,
is their Creditors' Money, and no longer the Money of the
People, who, if they withold it, should be compell'd to pay
by some Law.

All Property, indeed, except the Savage's temporary Cabin,
his Bow, his Matchcoat, and other little Acquisitions, abso-
lutely necessary for his Subsistence, seems to me to be the
Creature of public Convention. Hence the Public has the
Right of Regulating Descents, and all other Conveyances of
Property, and even of limiting the Quantity and the Uses of
it. All the Property that is necessary to a Man, for the Con-
servation of the Individual and the Propagation of the Species,
is his natural Right, which none can justly deprive him of :
But all Property superfluous to such purposes is the Property
of the Publick, who, by their Laws, have created it, and who
may therefore by other Laws dispose of it, whenever the Wel-
fare of the Publick shall demand such Disposition. He that
does not like civil Society on these Terms, let him retire and
live among Savages. He can have no right to the benefits
of Society, who will not pay his Club towards the Support
of it.

1783] TO ROBERT MORRIS 139

The Marquis de la F.,1 who loves to be em ploy 'd in our
Affairs, and is often very useful, has lately had several Con-
versations with the Ministers and Persons concern'd in form-
ing new Regulations, respecting the Commerce between our
two Countries, which are not yet concluded. I therefore
thought it well to communicate to him a Copy of your Letter,
which contains so many sensible and just Observations on that
Subject. He will make a proper Use of them, and perhaps
they may have more Weight, as appearing to come from a
Frenchman, than they would have if it were known that
they were the Observations of an American. I perfectly
agree with you in all the Sentiments you have express'd on
this Occasion.

You have made no Answer to the Proposition I sent of
furnishing Tobacco to the Farmers General. They have
since made a Contract with Mess" Alexander & Williams
for the same Purpose but it is such a one as does not prevent
their making another with you if hereafter it should suit you.

I am sorry for the Publick's sake, that you are about to
quit your Office, but on personal Considerations I shall con-
gratulate you ; for I cannot conceive of a more happy Man,
than he, who having been long loaded with public Cares,
finds himself reliev'd from them, and enjoying private repose
in the Bosom of his Friends and Family.

The Government here has set on foot a new Loan of an
Hundred Millions. I enclose the Plan.

It is thought very advantageous for the Lenders. You may
judge by that how much the Money is wanted, and how sea-
sonable the Peace was for all concerned.

If Mr. Alexander, who is gone to Virginia, should happen

1 Lafayette. — ED.

140 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1783

to come to Philadelphia, I beg leave to recommend him to
your Civilities as an old Friend of mine whom I very much
esteem.

With sincere Regard & Attachment, I am ever, Dear Sir,

Your most etc.
[B.F.]

1462. TO EBENEZER HAZARD1 (p. c.)

Passy, Dec. 26, 1783

SIR,

I am desired by the General Post Office of Great Britain
to recommend to your Consideration a Sketch of an Adver-
tisement respecting the Packet Boats, which they think it
may be useful to publish. You will do in it what you think
proper. Perhaps you have already done what is necessary.
As I was formerly long connected with that Office and have
Friends in it, if I can be of Use in forwarding any Arrange-
ments you have to propose for the Benefit of yours, you may

command freely, Sir,

Your most obedient Servant

B. FRANKLIN.

1463. TO THOMAS MIFFLIN (L. c.)

Passy, Dec. 26, 1783.

DEAR SIR,

I congratulate you very sincerely on your Appointment
to that very honourable Station, the Presidency of Congress.
Every Testimony you receive of the public Sense of your
Services and Talents, gives me Pleasure.

1 From the original in the possession of Samuel Hazard, Esq., of German-
town, a great-grandson of Ebenezer Hazard. — ED.

1783] TO THOMAS MIFFLIN -141

I have written to you a long Letter on Business, in my
quality of Minister. This is a private Letter, respecting my
personal Concerns, which I presume to trouble you with on
the Score of our ancient Friendship.

In a Letter of the i2th of March, 1781, I stated my Age
and Infirmities to the Congress, and requested they would
be pleased to recall me, that I might enjoy the little left me
of the Evening of Life in Repose, and in the sweet Society
of my Friends and Family. I was answered by the then
President, that, when Peace should be made, if I persisted
in the same Request, it should be granted; I acquiesc'd;
the Preliminaries were signed in November, 1782, and I then
repeated my Petition.1 A year is past, and I have no Answer.
Undoubtedly, if the Congress should think my continuing
here necessary for the public Service, I ought, as a good
Citizen, to submit to their Judgment and Pleasure; but, as
they may easily supply my Place to advantage, that cannot
be the Case. I suppose, therefore, that it is merely the multi-
plicity of more important Affairs, that has put my Request
out of their Mind. What I would then desire of you is, to
put this Matter in Train to be moved and answer'd as soon as
possible, that I may arrange my Affairs accordingly.

In the first Letter above mentioned, to which I beg leave
to refer you, I gave a Character of my Grandson, William
Temple Franklin, and solicited for him the Favour and Pro-
tection of Congress. I have nothing to abate of that Char-
acter; on the contrary, I think him so much improved as to
be capable of executing, with Credit to himself and Advan-
tage to the Public, any Employment in Europe the Congress
may think fit to honour him with. He has been seven Years

1 See letter to Robert R. Livingston, dated December 5th, 1782. — ED.

I42 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1783

in the Service, and is much esteem'd by all that know him,
particularly by the Minister here, who, since my new Dis-
order (the Stone) makes my going to Versailles inconvenient
to me, transacts our Business with him in the most obliging
and friendly manner. It is natural for me, who love him, to
wish to see him settled before I die, in some Employ that may
probably be permanent ; and I hope you will be so good to me,
as to get that Affair likewise moved and carried thro' in his
Favour.

He has, I think, this additional Merit to plead, that he has
serv'd in my Office as Secretary several Years, for the small
Salary of 300 Louis a Year, while the Congress gave 1000 a
Year to the Secretaries of other Ministers, who had not half
the Employ for a Secretary that I had. For it was long before
a Consul was sent here, and we had all that Business on our
hands, with a great deal of Admiralty Business in examining
and condemning Captures, taken by our Cruisers and by the
French Cruisers under American Commission; besides the
constant Attendance in examining and recording the Accept-
ances of the Congress Bills of Exchange, which has been,
f rom*the immense Number, very fatiguing ; with many other
extra Affairs, not usually occurring to other Ministers, such
as the Care of the Prisoners in England, and the constant
Correspondence relating to them; in all of which he serv'd
me as Secretary, with the Assistance only of a Clerk at low
Wages (50 Louis a Year), so that the Saving has been very
considerable to the Public. I am, &c.

B. FRANKLIN.

1783] TO MRS. MARY HEWSON 143

1464. TO THOMAS MIFFLIN (D. s. w.)

Passy, December 26, 1783.
SIR,

If the Congress should think it fit to have a Consul for the
United States in London, and do not appoint one of our own
countrymen to that office, I beg leave to mention the Merits
of Mr. William Hodgson,1 a Merchant of that City, who has
always been a zealous friend of America, was a principal
promoter of the Subscription for the relief of American
Prisoners, and Chairman of the Committee for dispensing
the Money raised by that Subscription. He also took the
Trouble of applying the Moneys I furnished him with when
the Subscription was exhausted, and constantly assisted me
in all the negociations I had with the British Ministers, in
their favour, wherein he generally succeeded, being a man of
weight and credit, very active, and much esteemed for his
probity and Integrity. These his Services, continued steadily
during the whole War, seem to entitle him to the favourable
notice of Congress, when any occasion offers of doing him
Service or pleasure. With great respect, I have the honour

to *• &c' B. FRANKLIN.

1465. TO MRS. MARY HEWSON2 (p. c.)

Passy, Dec. 26, 1783.

DEAR POLLY,

In reading Mr. Viny's Letter, when I receiv'd it, I miss'd
seeing yours, which was written behind it in a Corner. I

1 See letter to William Hodgson, December 10, 1783. — ED.

2 From the original in the possession of T. Hewson Bradford, M.D. — ED.

144 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1783

thank you much for your kind Offer respecting my Grandson.
I was fully resolv'd on sending him in September last, and
engag'd Mr. Jay, one of my Colleagues, then going to Eng-
land, to take him over in his Company. But, when it came
to be propos'd to him, he show'd such an Unwillingness to
leave me, and Temple such a Fondness for retaining him,
that I concluded to keep him till I should go over myself.
He behaves very well, and we love him very much.

I send herewith two different French Grammars, not
knowing which to prefer, Opinions here being divided.
Your French Master may take his Choice, and you will pre-
sent the other to my Godson, as my New Year's Gift, with
the two Volumes of Synonymes Francises, an excellent Work.
They will be left at Mr. Hodgson's, Merchant in Coleman
Street, where you may have them on sending for them.

Adieu, my dear Friend. I long to see you and yours, but
God only knows when that may happen. I am, neverthe-
less, yours most affectionately, B FRANKLIN

January ist, 1784. Health, and prosperity, and many
happy years to my dear friend and her children, for whom
I send the enclosed little books.

1466. TO SAMUEL COOPER (L. c.)

Passy, Dec. 26, 1783.

DEAR SIR: — I have received your Favour of the i6th
October, and am much obliged by the Intelligence it contains.1

1 This letter is in A. P. S. The intelligence it contained was " that the
House of Representatives for this State [Massachusetts] have this moment

1783] TO SAMUEL COOPER 145

I am happy to hear that your Government has agreed to
furnish Congress with the Means of discharging the national
Debt. The Obstruction that Measure met with in some of
the States has had many mischievous Effects on this side the
Water; it discouraged the Loan going on in Holland, and
thereby occasioned a Protest of some of Mr. Morris' Bills.
Nothing can recover our Credit in Europe and our Reputa-
tion in its Courts, but an immediate proof of our Honesty
and Prudence by a general Provision in all the States for the
punctual Payment of the Interest and the final regular Dis-
charge of the Principal. I hope we will never deserve, nor
any longer appear likely to deserve, the Reproof given to an
Enthusiastical Knave in Pennsylvania, who being called upon
for an old Debt, said to his Creditors: Thou must have a
little more patience; I am not yet able to pay thee. Give
me then your bond, says the Creditor, and pay me Interest.
No, I cannot do that; I cannot in conscience either receive
or pay Interest, it is against my Principle. You have then
the Conscience of a Rogue, says the Creditor: You tell me
it is against your Principle to pay Interest; and it being
against your Interest to pay the Principal, I perceive you do
not intend to pay me either one or t'other.

My young Friend, your Grandson, must have had a long
Passage, since he was not arrived when you wrote. Indeed
all the Vessels that left Europe for America about the time
he did have had long Passages which makes me less uneasy
on his account. I hope he is in your Arms long before this
time. His father never made any Provision here for his

passed an Act for a Duty of 5 per cent on all goods imported for paying the
Interest of our National Debt, according to the Requisition of Congress." —
ED.

VOL. IX — L

I46 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1783

Return that I have heard of, and therefore I have drawn on
you for the Ballance of the Account as you directed.

I wrote you a too long letter some time since, respecting
Mr. A.'s Calumnies,1 of which perhaps it was not necessary
to take so much notice.

The Government of England is again disordered. The
Lords have rejected the ministry's favorite Bill for demolish-
ing the Power of the India Company. The Commons have
resented it by some angry Resolutions, and it is just now
reported here that the Ministers are dismissed and the Parlia-
ment dissolved. Of this we have not yet certain advice,
but expect it hourly.

There are hopes that the War against the Turks will blow
over; the rather, as all Flames are apt to spread, and the late
belligerent powers have all need of a continued Peace ; This
however, is not certain, and it behoves us to preserve with
Care our Friends and our Credit abroad, and our Union at
home, as we know not how soon we may have occasion for
all of them.

With great and sincere Esteem, I am ever, my dear Friend,
yours, etc.

B. FRANKLIN.

1467. TO ELIAS BOUDINOT2 (P.O.)

Passy, Dec. 26, 1783.

SIR,

Your two Letters to the Commissioners, dated at Prince-
ton the 27th of October and ist of November, and one to me
of the first of November came duly to Hand; Mr. Adams

1 Mr. John Adams. — ED.

2 From the original in the possession of Mr. George C. Thomas. — ED.

1783] M1CHEL-GUILLAUME-JEAN DE CREVECCEUR 147

saw the public Letters in England, Capt. Jones having landed
with them at Plymouth. We thank you much for the In-
telligence they contain. I am now alone here, Mr. Jay being
at Bath, with Mr. Laurens, and Mr. Adams either in England
or Holland : But I have written fully to the new President
respecting the Instructions etc. communicated with your
Letters. And now, Sir, give me leave to congratulate you
on the fortunate Events that have distinguished your Presi-
dency, and on your honourable Retreat from it into private
Life. The first well-improv'd may make us all happy, and
the last must make you so ; for I can hardly conceive a hap-
pier Being than the Man, who, having been long laden with
public Cares and fatigu'd by every-body's Business, is al-
low'd to retire into the Bosom of his Family, and enjoy
Otium cum dignitate.

With great and sincere Respect, I have the honour to be,
Sir, your most obedient and most humble Servant,

B. FRANKLIN.

1468. TO MICHEL-GUILLAUME-JEAN DE

CREVEOEUR1 (L. c.)

SIR : — I have perused the foregoing Memoir, and having
formerly had some Share in the Management of the Pacquet
Boats between England and America, I am enabled to fur-
nish you with some small Remarks.

The Project is good, and if carried into Execution will cer-
tainly be very useful to Merchants immediately, and profit-

1 This letter is without date, but it must have been written either late in
December, 1783, or early in January, 1784. — ED.

I48 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN- FRANKLIN [1783

able to the Revenue of the Post- Office at least after some
time; because not only Commerce increases Correspond-
ence, but Facility of Correspondence increases Commerce,
and they go on mutually augmenting each other.

Four Packet Boats were at first thought sufficient between
Falmouth and New York, so as [to] dispatch one regularly the
first Wednesday in every Month. But by Experience it was
found that a fifth was necessary ; as without it, the Regularity
was sometimes broken by Accidents of Wind and Weather,
and the Merchants disappointed and their Affairs deranged,
a Matter of great Consequence in Commerce. A fifth Packet
was accordingly added.

It is probable, as you observe, that the English will keep
up their Packets. In which Case I should think it advise-
able to order the Dispatch of the French Packets in the inter-
mediate times, that is on the third Wednesdays. This
would give the Merchants of Europe and America Oppor-
tunities of Writing every Fortnight. And the English who
had miss'd Writing by their own Packet of the first Wednes-
day, or have new Matter to write which they wish to send
before the next Month, will forward their Letters by the
Post to France to go by the French Packet, and vice
versa, which will encrease the Inland Postage of both
Nations.

As these Vessels are not to be laden with Goods, their
Holds may, without Inconvenience, be divided into separate
Apartments after the Chinese Manner, and each of those
Apartments caulked tight so as to keep out Water. In which
case if a Leak should happen in one Apartment, that only
would be affected by it, and the others would be free; so
that the Ship would not be so subject as others, to founder

1783] ON IMMIGRATION 149

and sink at Sea.1 This being known would be a great En-
couragement to Passengers.

I send you a Copy of a Chart of the Gulf Stream, which
is little known by European Navigators, and yet of great
Consequence ; since in going to America they often get into
that Stream and unknowingly stem it, whereby the Ship is
much retarded and the Voyage lengthened enormously.

The directions being imperfectly translated and expressed
in French, I have put them more correctly in English. I
have the honour to be, etc.,

1469. ON IMMIGRATION (L. c.)

TO AN UNKNOWN CORRESPONDENT

Your Queries concerning the Value of Land hi different
Circumstances & Situations, Modes of Settlement, &c. &c.
are quite out of my Power to answer; having while I lived
in America been always an Inhabitant of Capital Cities, and
not in the way of learning any thing correctly of Country
Affairs. There is a Book lately published in London,
written by Mr. Hector St. John, its Title, Letters from an
American Farmer,2 which contains a good deal of Informa-
tion on those Subjects; and as I know the Author to be an
observing intelligent Man, I suppose the Information to be

1 See " Maritime Observations," letter to David Le Roy. — ED.

2 " Letters from an American Farmer, describing certain provincial situa-
tions, manners and customs not generally known ; . . . written for the infor-
mation of a friend in England, by J-Hector Saint John, a farmer in Pennsyl-
vania." London, Thomas Davies, 1 782. — ED.

ISO THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1784

good as far as it goes, and I recommend the Book to your
perusal.

There is no doubt but great Tracts may be purchased on
the Frontiers of Virginia, & the Carolinas, at moderate Rates.
In Virginia it used to be at 5^ Sterling the 100 Acres. I know
not the present Price, but do not see why it should be higher.

Emigrants arriving pay no Fine or Premium for being ad-
mitted to all the Privileges of Citizens. Those are acquired
by two Years Residence.

No Rewards are given to encourage new Settlers to come
among us, whatever degree of Property they may bring with
them, nor any Exemptions from common Duties. Our Coun-
try offers to Strangers nothing but a good Climate, fertile
Soil, wholesome Air, Free Governments, wise Laws, Liberty,
a good People to live among, and a hearty Welcome. Those
Europeans who have these or greater Advantages at home,
would do well to stay where they are.

1470. TO JOHN JAY1 (L.C.)

DEAR SIR, Pass* Jan' 6>

I received your kind letter of the 26th past,2 and imme-
diately sent that inclosed to Mrs. Jay, whom I saw a few days
since with the children, all perfectly well. It is a happy
thing that the little ones are so finely past the small-pox,
and I congratulate you upon it most cordially.

It is true, as you have heard, that I have the stone, but not
that I have had thoughts of being cut for it. It is as yet
very tolerable. It gives me no pain but when in a Carriage

1 Only an incomplete transcript exists in L. C. — ED.

2 In A. P. S. — ED.

1784] TO JOHN JAY 151

on the Pavement, or when I make some sudden quick move-
ment. If I can prevent its growing larger, which I hope to do
by abstemious living and gentle exercise, I can go on pretty
comfortably with it to the end of my Journey, which can now
be at no great distance. I am chearful, enjoy the company
of my Friends, sleep well, have sufficient appetite, and my
Stomach performs well its Functions. The latter is very
material to the preservation of Health. I therefore take
no Drugs, lest I should disorder it. You may judge that
my Disease is not very grievous, since I am more afraid of
the Medicines than of the Malady.

It gives me pleasure to learn from you, that my Friends
still retain their Regard for me. I long to see them again,
but I doubt I shall hardly accomplish it. If our Commis-
sion for the Treaty of Commerce were arrived, and we were
at liberty to treat in England, I might then come over to you,
supposing the English Ministry disposed to enter into such
a Treaty.

I have, as you observe, some enemies in England, but
they are my enemies as an American] I have also two or
three in America, who are my Enemies as a Minister; but
I thank God there are not in the whole world any who are
my Enemies as a Man; for by his grace, thro' a long life,
I have been enabled so to conduct myself, that there does
not exist a human Being who can justly say, " Ben. Franklin
has wrong'd me." This, my friend, is in old age a comfort-
able Reflection, ifou too have, or may have, your Enemies ;
but let not that render you unhappy. If you make a right
use of them, they will do you more good than harm. They
point out to us our Faults ; they put us upon our guard, and
help us to live more correctly.

I52 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1784

My Grandsons are sensible of the honor of your Re-
membrance, and join their respectful Compliments and
best wishes with those of, dear Sir, your affectionate humble

servant,

B. FRANKLIN.

1471. TO SAMUEL CHASE1 (A. P. s.)

Passy, Jan. 6, 1784.

DEAR SIR,

I duly receiv'd your Letter of the i8th of September,2 with
the Papers that accompanied it : but being at that time afflicted
with two painful Disorders, the Gout and Gravel, I could not
then give any Attention to Business; and, before my Re-
covery, the Letters and Papers were both most unaccountably
missing. I spent Hours, from time to time, in searching for
them, and delay'd writing in continual Hopes of finding them,
which I was not able to do till within these few Days, when
on removing a writing-press in my Closet, I discover'd that
they had fallen and lay conceaPd behind it.

I had deliver'd the Letter you enclos'd to the Marquis de
la Fayette, and, as the Court was then at Fontainebleau,
and I could not follow it by reason of my Illness, I requested
him to sound M* le Marquis de Castries on the subject of the
Loss of your Ship.3 He did so ; and the Result of the Con-
versation was, that, if you thought fit to prosecute the Matter,

1 Samuel Chase (1741-1811), signer of the Declaration of Independence,
was the companion of Franklin and Charles Carrol in their mission to Canada.
— ED.

2 A long letter, written from London, and now in A. P. S. — ED.

8 The Matilda, a ship owned by Dorsey, Wheeler & Co., of Baltimore, of
which company Chase was a member. The ship was captured by a British
frigate, The Perseverance. — ED.

1784] TO SAMUEL CHASE 153

you should present a Memorial, upon which he might regu-
larly take the Affair into Consideration. You mentioned
your coming to Paris before finishing your other Business,
in case I should think there was a Probability of obtaining
Compensation, either from the Property of the Captain, or
the Generosity of the Prince. I have not yet been able to
learn any thing of the Captain's Circumstances ; and as clear
Proof of his Delinquency must precede an Application to the
King, and perhaps the Protest of Captain Belt will hardly
be thought sufficient Testimony, and other Evidences corrob-
orating cannot be obtained but with great Expense & Loss
of Time, and the Chicanery practis'd in the Courts here to
procure Delay is immense and endless; on these Considera-
tions I cannot advise your coming hither for the Purpose of
such a Prosecution to the Prejudice of your other Affairs;
tho' I shall be happy to see you, when it may be convenient
to you, and, when you are here, we will take the Advice of
some judicious Persons, and if it appears possible for me to
serve your Cause, I shall do it with great Pleasure.

M. de Rochambeau was not in Town, but I forwarded
Mr. Carrol's letter to him. I have written, as you desired,
to Brest, and as soon as I receive an Answer, I will com-
municate it to you. I am not enough acquainted with the
French Laws or Customs to inform you what Claims the
Widow of M. le Vache l may have on his Property. I only
think I have heard, that Marriages by a Protestant Minister
are not deemed valid. I will make inquiry.

Since writing the above, I am inform 'd that, if celebrated

1 M. Jean Lcvache de Vanburn, volunteer in the Artillery of Maryland, and
captain in the army, married Ann Howard of Annapolis. He was believed
to have perished at sea. — ED.

I54 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1784

in a Protestant Country according to the Laws of that Coun-
try, they are deem'd valid here ; as are also the Marriages of
Protestants here, if in the Chapel of a Protestant Ambassador.
I shall be glad to hear, that you have succeeded in Re-
covering the Publick Money, and that you continue to enjoy
your Health, being, with sincere and great Esteem, dear Sir,
&c. B. FRANKLIN.

1472. TO DAVID HARTLEY1 (p. c.)

Passy, Jan. 7, 1784.
MY DEAR FRIEND,

I have this moment recd your favour of the 25th past,
acquainting me with the change in administration. I am
[not] sure that in reforming the constitution, which is some-
times talked of, it wd not be better to make your great officers
of state hereditary, than to suffer the inconvenience of such
frequent and total changes. Much Faction and Cabal wd
be prevented by having a hereditary First Ld of the Treasury,
a hereditary Ld Chancellor, Privy Seal, President of the
Council, Secretary of State, First Ld of the Admiralty, &c.
&c. It will not be said that the duties of these officers being
important, we cannot trust to nature for the chance of requisite
talents, since we have a hereditary set of judges in the last
resort, the House of Peers; an hereditary King; and in a
certain German University an hereditary professor of Mathe-
matics.

We have not yet heard of the arrival of our Express in
America, who carried the Definitive Treaty. He sailed the

1 From a copy in Hartley's handwriting, in the collection of Mrs. L. Z.
Leiter. — ED.

1784] TO JAN INGENHOUSZ 155

26th of September. As soon as the ratification arrives, I
shall immediately send you word of it. With great esteem
I am ever, my dear friend, yours most affectionately,

B. FRANKLIN.

1473. TO JAN INGENHOUSZ (L. c.)

Passy, Jan. 16, 1784.

DEAR FRIEND,

I have this day received your Favor of the 2d Inst. Every
Information in my power, respecting the Balloons, I sent you
just before Christmas, contained in Copies of my letters to Sir
Joseph Banks. There is no Secret in the Affair, and I make
no doubt that a Person coming from you would easily obtain
a sight of the different Balloons of Montgolfier and Charles,
with all the Instructions wanted; and, if you undertake to
make one, I think it extremely proper and necessary to send
an ingenious man here for that purpose : otherwise, for want
of attention to some particular circumstance, or of not being
acquainted with it, the Experiment might miscarry, which,
in an affair of so much public Expectation, would have bad
consequences, draw upon you a great deal of Censure, and
affect your Reputation. It is a serious thing to draw out
from their Affairs all the Inhabitants of a great City and its
Environs, and a Disappointment makes them angry. At
Bordeaux lately a person who pretended to send up a balloon,
and had received Money from many People, not being able
to make it rise, the populace were so exasperated that they
pulled down his house, and had like to have killed him.

It appears, as you observe, to be a discovery of great Im-
portance, and what may possibly give a new turn to human

IS6 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1784

Affairs. Convincing Sovereigns of the Folly of wars may
perhaps be one Effect of it; since it will be impracticable for
the most potent of them to guard his Dominions. Five
thousand Balloons, capable of raising two Men each, could not
cost more than Five Ships of the Line; and where is the
Prince who can afford so to cover his Country with Troops
for its Defence, as that Ten Thousand Men descending from
the Clouds might not in many places do an infinite deal of
mischief, before a Force could be brought together to repel
them? It is a pity that any national Jealousy should, as you
imagine it may, have prevented the English from prosecuting
the Experiment, since they are such ingenious Mechanicians,
that in their hands it might have made a more rapid progress
towards Perfection, and all the Utility it is capable of afford-
ing.

The Balloon of Messrs. Charles and Robert was really
filled with inflamable air. The Quantity being great, it was
expensive, and tedious filling, requiring two or three days and
nights constant Labour. It had a soupape, [or valve,] near
the top, which they could open by pulling a string and
thereby let out some air when they had a mind to descend;
and they discharged some of their Ballast of Sand when they
would rise again. A great deal of Air must have been let out
when they landed, so that the loose part might envelope one
of them : yet, the car being lightned by that one getting out of
it, there was enough left to carry up the other rapidly. They
had na Fire with them. That is only used in M. Montgolfier's
globe, which is open at Bottom, and straw constantly burnt
to keep it up. This kind is sooner and cheaper filled ; but
must be much bigger to carry up the same weight ; since Air
rarified by Heat is only twice as light as common Air, and

1784] TO COMTE DE VERGENNES 157

inflamable Air is ten times lighter. M. de Morveau, a
famous Chemist at Dijon, has found an inflamable Air that
will cost only a 25th part of the Price of what is made by
oil of Vitriol poured on Iron Filings. They say it is made
from Sea Coal. Its comparative Weight is not mentioned.
Yours most affectionately,

B. FRANKLIN.

1474. TO COMTE DE VERGENNES (L. c.)

Passy, Jan. 17, 1784.

SIR ; — I received the Letter your Excellency did me the
honour of writing to me the i$th Instant, inclosing one
from a certain Schaffer, who calls himself Lieutenant- Colonel
of the Continental Militia, requesting that you would cause
to be returned to him a Bill of Exchange for 60 Dollars that
has my Name on it, and which with his other Papers, has been
seiz'd and deposited in the "Greffe criminel du chatelet,"
and complaining that neither the consul nor myself afford
him any Protection; and you are pleased to desire my Sen-
timents on the Affair.

This same Schaffer has been in Paris now about three
Years, but this is the first time I have heard any mention of
his military Character; he brought a little Money with him,
as I understood, to purchase Goods, but he soon fell into the
hands of a Set of Sharpers, and being a young Man of very
little Understanding, having neither Good Sense enough to
be an honest Man nor Wit enough for a Rogue, though with a
strong Inclination, they first cheated him (as he complained

158 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1784

to me) and then join'd with him to cheat others. For this
purpose they got his Name inserted in the Almanack Royal
of 1782 and 1783 among the Bankers, and the Title of John
Schaffer &° Compagnie, Commissionaires des Etats-Unis de
I'Amerique, Rue des Fosses, St. Marcel, to which Title they
had not the smallest Pretence ; but it served to give them some
Credit with the honest but ignorant Shop-keepers of Paris, with
whose Complaints of our Commissionaires not Paying I have
been greatly troubled. It is by thus running hi Debt, and by
borrowing where he could, that he has for some time subsisted ;
and I understand that for some of these Escroqueries he is now
in Prison. When he was there the first time, about two Years
ago, not having then so bad an Opinion of him, I interested
myself in his Favour, endeavored to accommodate his Affairs,
and lent him some Money in his Distress, which he never
repaid, and yet on various Pretences of Sickness and Misery
has obtained more from me lately, but I am now quite tired
of him as is also Mr. Barclay, and if I have refused to make
use of any Interest I may be supposed to have to screen him
from Punishment, it is because I think it prostituting the
interest of a minister to employ it in protection of knaves ;
and I am really ashamed to appear in his favour, and afraid
that my doing it would tend to lessen the weight of any Ap-
plication I might hereafter have occasion to make in behalf
of an honester Man. The Bill he mentions is I suppose one
of the Loan-Office Interest Bills sent to him by his Brother
thro' the hands of Mr. Barclay, which I accepted, and it will
be paid when presented to Mr. Grand. I make no Objection
to its being deliver'd up to him, though the Creditors, perhaps,
who prosecute him may, for whose Use probably his Effects
have been seized.

1784] TO MRS. GEORGIAN A HARE-BAYLOR 159

The Account he gives of his Riches, is I believe, altogether
as fictitious as his Character [of] Lieut. -Colonel and Commis-
sionaire des Etats-U[nis] but that his father and Brother-in-
law are resp[ectable] persons in Pennsylvania is true. Mr.
Barclay [has] some Knowledge of them : for their sakes if
[the] Punishment of the carcan, which I [hear is] intended
for him, could be commuted for [a] less fletrissant, a longer
Banishment, or [such] like, I should be glad, and if your
Excellency can obtain this for him without too much Trouble
I shall, in their Behalf, acknowledge it as a Favour.

With great Respect, I am, sir, your Excellency's most

obedient and most humble Servant.

B. FRANKLIN.

P. S. — I return the Letter endors'd. I take it to be
written by one Beaumont, his advocate.

1475. TO MRS- GEORGIANA HARE-NAYLOR1

(L. C.)

Passy, Jan. 25, 1784.
MY DEAR FRIEND,

Your Letter of the i2th Inst. came duly to hand. I con-
gratulate you & M* Hare on your Marriage, & wish you
every Felicity.

I will answer your Enquiries as well as I can. The Cul-
tivators of Land are a respectable Part of our People in
Pensilvania, being generally Proprietors of the Land they
cultivate, out of whom are chosen the Majority of our Magis-

1 Georgiana Shipley, daughter of the Bishop of St. Asaph, married in 1 783
Francis Hare-Naylor (1753-1815) of Hurstmonceaux, Sussex, author of plays,
novels, and " History of the Helvetic Republics." — ED.

160 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1784

trates, Legislators, &c. And a Year's Residence gives a
Stranger all the Rights of a Citizen. I am not much ac-
quainted with Country Affairs, having been always an In-
habitant of Cities; but I imagine a good Plantation ready
form'd, with a Dwelling House, &c. may be bought for half
the Sum you mention to be now in your Possession, and that
the other half would amply furnish the Stock &c. necessary
for working the Land to Advantage. A Farm of two or three
Hundred Acres, in the hands of a Man who understands Ag-
riculture and will attend to it, is capable of furnishing Sub-
sistence to a Family. If this may be the Case with Mr Hare,
you see that your 300^ a Year l will be an accumulating Fund,
providing for the Establishment of Children, and for a Retire-
ment of Ease & Comfort in Old Age. The Law is also an
honourable Profession with us, and more profitable than
Agriculture ; and if Mr Hare is already acquainted with the
English Common Law, which is the Basis of ours, he might
be admitted to practice immediately, and would find but little
Difficulty in acquiring a Knowledge of our few Additions to,
or Variations of that Law ; I have known in my time several
considerable Estates made by that Profession. But the Study
is dry and laborious and long, that is requisite to arrive at
Eminence; and if Mr Hare has not already gone thro' it,
he will consider whether he has the Habits of Application,
Industry & Perseverance that are necessary. Not knowing
his Character & Disposition it is impossible for me to advise
well, or to judge whether sitting down quietly in some cheap
part of Europe, and living prudently on two-thirds of your
Income, may not be preferable to any Scheme in America.

1 An annuity settled upon the Hare-Naylors by the Duchess of Devonshire
after the Bishop of St. Asaph had refused to recognize Hare. — ED.

1784] TO MRS. SARAH BACHE 161

I can only say, that if I should be there when you are, my best
Counsels and Services will not be wanting, and to see you
happily settled & prosperous there would give me infinite
Pleasure; but I have not yet obtained Leave to go home,
and am besides in my Both Year; of course if I ever arrive
there my stay can be but short. While I do exist, wherever
it is, you will find me with unalterable Esteem & Affection,

my dear Friend,

Yours most sincerely.

B. FRANKLIN.

1476. TO MRS. SARAH BACHE (L. c.)

Passy, Jan. 26, 1784.

MY DEAR CHILD,

Your Care in sending me the Newspapers is very agre-
able to me. I received by Capt. Barney those relating to the
Cincinnati. My Opinion of the Institution cannot be of much
Importance; I only wonder that, when the united Wisdom
of our Nation had, in the Articles of Confederation, mani-
fested their Dislike of establishing Ranks of Nobility, by
Authority either of the Congress or of any particular State, a
Number of private Persons should think proper to distinguish
themselves and their Posterity, from their fellow Citizens,
and form an Order of hereditary Knights, in direct Opposition
to the solemnly declared Sense of their Country ! I imagine
it must be likewise contrary to the Good Sense of most of
those drawn into it by the Persuasion of its Projectors, who
have been too much struck with the Ribbands and Crosses
they have seen among them hanging to the Buttonholes of
Foreign Officers. And I suppose those, who disapprove of

VOL. IX — M

162 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1784

it, have not hitherto given it much Opposition, from a Prin-
ciple somewhat like that of your good Mother, relating to
punctilious Persons, who are always exacting little Observ-
ances of Respect; that, "if People can be pleased with small
Matters, it is a pity but they should have them."

In this View, perhaps, I should not myself, if my Advice
had been ask'd, have objected to their wearing their Ribband
and Badge according to their Fancy, tho' I certainly should
to the entailing it as an Honour on their Posterity. For
Honour, worthily obtain'd (as for Example that of our
Officers), is in its Nature a personal Thing, and incommuni-
cable to any but those who had some Share in obtaining it.
Thus among the Chinese, the most ancient, and from long
Experience the wisest of Nations, honour does not descend,
but ascends. If a man from his Learning, his Wisdom, or
his Valour, is promoted by the Emperor to the Rank of Man-
darin, his Parents are immediately entitled to all the same
Ceremonies of Respect from the People, that are established
as due to the Mandarin himself ; on the supposition that it
must have been owing to the Education, Instruction, and
good Example afforded him by his Parents, that he was ren-
dered capable of serving the Publick.

This ascending Honour is therefore useful to the State,
as it encourages Parents to give their Children a good and
virtuous Education. But the descending Honour, to Pos-
terity who could have no Share in obtaining it, is not only
groundless and absurd, but often hurtful to that Posterity,
since it is apt to make them proud, disdaining to be employed
in useful Arts, and thence falling into Poverty, and all the
Meannesses, Servility, and Wretchedness attending it ; which
is the present case with much of what is called the Noblesse

1784] TO MRS. SARAH BACHE 163

in Europe. Or if, to keep up the Dignity of the Family,
Estates are entailed entire on the Eldest male heir, another
Pest to Industry and Improvement of the Country is intro-
duc'd, which will be folio wed by all the odious mixture of pride
and Beggary, and idleness, that have half depopulated [and
decultivated] Spain ; occasioning continual Extinction of Fam-
ilies by the Discouragements of Marriage [and neglect in the
improvement of estates].1

I wish, therefore, that the Cincinnati, if they must go on
with their Project, would direct the Badges of their Order to
be worn by their Parents, instead of handing them down to
their Children. It would be a good Precedent, and might
have good Effects. It would also be a kind of Obedience to
the Fourth Commandment, in which God enjoins us to
honour our Father and Mother, but has nowhere directed us
to honour our Children. And certainly no mode of honour-
ing those immediate Authors of our Being can be more effec-
tual, than that of doing praiseworthy Actions, which reflect
Honour on those who gave us our Education ; or more becom-
ing, than that of manifesting, by some public Expression or
Token, that it is to their Instruction and Example we ascribe
the Merit of those Actions.

But the Absurdity of descending Honours is not a mere
Matter of philosophical Opinion; it is capable of mathe-
matical Demonstration. A Man's Son, for instance, is but
half of his Family, the other half belonging to the Family of
his Wife. His Son, too, marrying into another Family, his
Share in the Grandson is but a fourth ; in the Great Grand-
son, by the same Process, it is but an Eighth; in the next
Generation a Sixteenth ; the next a Thirty-second ; the next

1 Passages in brackets are not found in the draft in L. C. — ED.

164 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1784

a Sixty-fourth; the next an Hundred and twenty-eighth;
the next a Two hundred and Fifty-sixth; and the next a
Five hundred and twelfth; thus in nine Generations, which
will not require more than 300 years (no very great Antiquity
for a Family), our present Chevalier of the Order of Cin-
cinnatus's Share in the then existing Knight, will be but a
5 1 2th part; which, allowing the present certain Fidelity of
American Wives to be insur'd down through all those Nine
Generations, is so small a Consideration, that methinks no
reasonable Man would hazard for the sake of it the disagreable
Consequences of the Jealousy, Envy, and 111 will of his
Countrymen.

Let us go back with our Calculation from this young Noble,
the 5 1 2th part of the present Knight, thro' his nine Genera-
tions, till we return to the year of the Institution. He must
have had a Father and Mother, they are two. Each of them
had a father and Mother, they are four. Those of the next
preceding Generation will be eight, the next Sixteen, the next
thirty-two, the next sixty-four, the next one hundred and
Twenty-eight, the next Two hundred and fifty-six, and the
ninth in this Retrocession Five hundred and twelve, who must
be now existing, and all contribute their Proportion of this
future Chevalier de Cincinnatus. These, with the rest, make
together as follows:
4
16

3*
128
JI2

Total 1 02 2

1784] TO MRS. SARAH BACHE 165

One Thousand and Twenty-two Men and Women, contrib-
utors to the formation of one Knight. And, if we are to
have a Thousand of these future knights, there must be now
and hereafter existing One million and Twenty-two Thou-
sand Fathers and Mothers, who are to contribute to their
Production, unless a Part of the Number are employ 'd in
making more Knights than One. Let us strike off then the
22,000, on the Supposition of this double Employ, and then
consider whether, after a reasonable Estimation of the Num-
ber of Rogues, and Fools, and Royalists and Scoundrels and
Prostitutes, that are mix'd with, and help to make up neces-
sarily their Million of Predecessors, Posterity will have much
reason to boast of the noble Blood of the then existing Set
of Chevaliers de Cincinnatus. [The future genealogists, too,
of these Chevaliers, in proving the lineal descent of their
honour through so many generations (even supposing honour
capable in its nature of descending), will only prove the small
share of this honour, which can be justly claimed by any one
of them ; since the above simple process in arithmetic makes
it quite plain and clear that, in proportion as the antiquity
of the family shall augment, the right to the honour of the an-
cestor will diminish ; and a few generations more would re-
duce it to something so small as to be very near an absolute
nullity.] I hope, therefore, that the Order will drop this part
of their project, and content themselves, as the Knights of
the Garter, Bath, Thistle, St. Louis, and other Orders of
Europe do, with a Life Enjoyment of their little Badge and
Ribband, and let the Distinction die with those who have
merited it. This I imagine will give no offence. For my
own part, I shall think it a Convenience, when I go into a
Company where there may be Faces unknown to me, if I

166 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1784

discover, by this Badge, the Persons who merit some particu-
lar Expression of my Respect ; and it will save modest Virtue
the Trouble of calling for our Regard, by awkward round-
about Intimations of having been heretofore employed in
the Continental Service.

The Gentleman, who made the Voyage to France to pro-
vide the Ribands and Medals, has executed his Commission.
To me they seem tolerably done; but all such Things are
criticis'd. Some find Fault with the Latin, as wanting classic
Elegance and Correctness ; and, since our Nine Universities
were not able to furnish better Latin, it was pity, they say,
that the Mottos had not been in English. Others object to
the Title, as not properly assumable by any but Gen. Wash-
ington, [and a few others] who serv'd without Pay. Others
object to the Bald Eagle as looking too much like a Dindon,
or Turkey. For my own part, I wish the Bald Eagle had not
been chosen as the Representative of our Country; he is a
Bird of bad moral Character; he does not get his living
honestly; you may have seen him perch'd on some dead
Tree, near the River where, too lazy to fish for himself, he
watches the Labour of the Fishing-Hawk; and, when that
diligent Bird has at length taken a Fish, and is bearing it to
his Nest for the support of his Mate and young ones, the
Bald Eagle pursues him, and takes it from him. With all
this Injustice he is never in good Case ; but, like those among
Men who live by Sharping and Robbing, he is generally poor,
and often very lousy. Besides, he is a rank Coward; the
little KingBird, not bigger than a Sparrow, attacks him boldly
and drives him out of the District. He is therefore by no
means a proper emblem for the brave and honest Cincinnati
of America, who have driven all the Kingbirds from our

1784] TO MRS. SARAH BACHE 167

Country ; though exactly fit for that Order of Knights, which
the French call Chevaliers d 'Industrie.

I am, on this account, not displeas'd that the Figure is not
known as a Bald Eagle, but looks more like a Turk'y. For
in Truth, the Turk'y is in comparison a much more respect-
able Bird, and withal a true original Native of America.
Eagles have been found in all Countries, but the Turk'y was
peculiar to ours ; the first of the Species seen in Europe being
brought to France by the Jesuits from Canada, and serv'd
up at the Wedding Table of Charles the Ninth.1 He is,
[though a little vain and silly, it is true, but not the worse
emblem for that,] a Bird of Courage, and would not hesitate
to attack a Grenadier of the British Guards, who should pre-
sume to invade his Farm Yard with a red Coat on.

I shall not enter into the Criticisms made upon their Latin.
The gallant officers of America may [not have the merit of
being] be no great scholars, but they undoubtedly merit
much, [as brave soldiers,] from their Country, which should
therefore not leave them merely to Fame for their " Virtutis
Premium" which is one of their Latin Mottos. Their " Esto
perpetua" another, is an excellent Wish, if they meant it for
their Country; bad, if intended for their Order. The
States should not only restore to them the Omnia of their
first Motto,2 which many of them have left and lost, but pay
them justly, and reward them generously. They should not

1 A learned friend of the Editor's has observed to him, that this is a mis-
take, as Turkeys were found in great plenty by Cortes, when he invaded and
conquered Mexico, before the time of Charles the Twelfth. That this, and
their being brought to old Spain, is mentioned by Peter Martyr of Anghiera,
who was Secretary of the Council to the Indies, established immediately after
the discovery of America, and personally acquainted with Columbus. — W. T. F.

8 " Omnia reliquit servare rempublicam." — ED.

168 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1784

be suffered to remain, with [all] their new-created Chivalry,
entirely in the Situation of the Gentleman in the Story, which
their omnia reliquit reminds me of. You know every thing
makes me recollect some Story. He had built a very fine
House, and thereby much impair'd his Fortune. He had a
Pride, however, in showing it to his Acquaintance. One of
them, after viewing it all, remark'd a Motto over the Door,
"OIA VANITAS." "What," says he, "is the Meaning of
this OIA ? it is a word I don't understand." " I will tell you,"
said the Gentleman; "I had a mind to have the Motto cut
on a Piece of smooth Marble, but there was not room for it
between the Ornaments, to be put in Characters large enough
to be read. I therefore made use of a Contraction antiently
very common in Latin Manuscripts, by which the w's and w's
in Words are omitted, and the Omission noted by a little
Dash above, which you may see there ; so that the Word is
omnia, OMNIA VANITAS." "O," says his Friend, "I now
comprehend the Meaning of your motto, it relates to your
Edifice ; and signifies, that, if you have abridged your Omnia,
you have, nevertheless, left your VANITAS legible at full
length." I am, as ever, your affectionate father,

B. FRANKLIN.

1477- TO CHARLES W. F. DUMAS 1 (p. c.)

Passy, Feb. I, 1784.
DEAR SIR,

I receiv'd duly yours of the 23rd past, as well as those
therein mentioned, with the Enclosed for the Office of Foreign

1 From the original in the autograph collection of Mr. Simon Gratz. — ED.

1784] TO HENRY LAURENS 169

Affairs, all of which except the last are forwarded, and that
will go next Wednesday. I thank you for the Opportunity
given me of seeing the Intelligence they contain. I sent you
5 or 6 Weeks since, a Packet containing some fresh American
Newspapers. You do not mention receiving them. They
went by a Person whose Name I have forgot. He had for-
merly been in the House of Messrs de Neufville. I wrote
at the same time a few Lines. I am ever, Dear Sir,
Your faithful humble
Servant

B. FRANKLIN.

P. S. I condole with you on the Loss of the Ship men-
tion'd in the enclos'd Newspaper.

1478. TO HENRY LAURENS l (L. c.)

Passy, February 12, 1784.

DEAR SIR,

I received your favour of the 3d instant by your son, with the
newspapers, for which I thank you. The disorders of that
government, whose constitution has been so much praised,
are come to a height that threatens some violent convulsion,
if not a dissolution ; and its Physicians do not even seem to
guess at the cause of the disease, and therefore prescribe in-
sufficient remedies, such as place bills, more equal representa-
tion, more frequent elections, &c. &c. In my humble opinion,
the malady consists in the enormous salaries, emoluments, and
patronage of great offices. Ambition and avarice are sep-
arately strong passions. When they are united in pursuit

1 From a transcript in L. C. — ED.

170 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1784

of the same object, they are too strong to be governed by com-
mon prudence, or influenced by public spirit and love of coun-
try ; they drive men irresistibly into factions, cabals, dissen-
sions, and violent divisions, always mischievous to public
councils, destructive to the peace of society, and sometimes
fatal to its existence. As long as the immense profits of these
offices subsist, members of the shortest and most equally
chosen parliaments will have them in view, and contend for
them, and their contentions will have all the same ruinous
consequences.

To me, then, there seems to be but one effectual remedy,
and that not likely to be adopted by so corrupt a nation;
which is, to abolish these profits, and make every place,of
honour a place of burthen. By that means the effect of one of
the passions above-mentioned would be taken away, and some-
thing would be added to counteract the other. Thus the
number of competitors for great offices would be dimin-
ished, and the efforts of those who still would obtain them
moderated.

Thank God we have now less connection with the affairs
of these people and are more at liberty to take care of our own,
which I hope we shall manage better.

We have a terrible winter here ; such another in this coun-
try is not remembered by any man living. The snow has been
thick upon the ground ever since Christmas; and the frost
constant. My Grandson joins in best compliments to your-
self and Miss Laurens. With sincere esteem and affection,
I have the honour to be, dear Sir, &c.

B. FRANKLIN.

1784] TO WILLIAM STRAHAN 171

1479. TO WILLIAM STRAHAN (L. c.)

Passy, Feb. 16, 1784.

DEAR SIR,

I receiv'd and read with Pleasure your kind Letter of the
first Inst,1 as it inform'd me of the Welfare of you and yours.
I am glad the Accounts you have from your Kinswoman at
Philadelphia 2 are agreable, and I shall be happy if any Rec-
ommendations from me can be serviceable to Dr. Ross,8 or
any other friend of yours, going to America.

Your arguments, persuading me to come once more to
England, are very powerful. To be sure, I long to see again
my Friends there, whom I love abundantly; but there are
difficulties and Objections of several kinds, which at present
I do not see how to get over.

I lament with you the political Disorders England at pres-
ent labours under. Your Papers are full of strange Accounts
of Anarchy and Confusion in America, of which we know
nothing, while your own Affairs are really in a Situation de-
plorable. In my humble Opinion, the Root of the Evil lies
not so much in too long, or too unequally chosen Parliaments,
as in the enormous Salaries, Emoluments, and Patronage
of your great Offices ; and that you will never be at rest till
they are all abolish'd, and every place of Honour made at the

1 A. P. s. — ED.

* Strahan had acknowledged warmly " the very friendly and effectual patron-
age " Franklin's family in America had afforded his " poor, helpless and sin-
gularly distressed kinswoman, than whom none can be more grateful, or more
deserving the great kindness you have shewn her." — ED.

» Dr. Ross had spent some time in the East as physician to the army; his
health failing, he returned to follow his profession in North America. — ED.

172 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1784

same time, instead of a Place of Profit, a place of Expence and

burthen.

Ambition and avarice are each of them strong Passions,
and when they are united in the same Persons, and have the
same Objects in view for their Gratification, they are too
strong for Public Spirit and Love of Country, and are apt to
produce the most violent Factions and Contentions. They
should therefore be separated, and made to act one against
the other. Those Places, to speak in our old stile (Brother
Type), may be for the good of the Chapel, but they are bad
for the Master, as they create constant Quarrels that hinder
the Business. For example, here are near two Months that
your Government has been employed in getting its form to
press; which is not yet fit to work on, every Page of it being
squabbled, and the whole ready to fall into pye. The Founts
too must be very scanty, or strangely out of sorts, since your
Compositors cannot find either upper or lower case Letters
sufficient to set the word ADMINISTRATION, but are f orc'd to be
continually turning for them. However, to return to com-
mon (tho' perhaps too saucy) Language, don't despair; you
have still one resource left, and that not a bad one, since it
may reunite the Empire. We have some Remains of Affec-
tion for you, and shall always be ready to receive and take
care of you in Case of Distress. So if you have not Sense
and Virtue enough to govern yourselves, e'en dissolve
your present old crazy Constitution, and send members to
Congress.

You will say my Advice "smells of Madeira" You are
right. This foolish Letter is mere chitchat between our-
selves over the second bottle. If, therefore, you show it to
anybody, (except our indulgent Friends, Dagge and Lady

1784] TO COMTE DE VERGENNES "173

Strahan) I will positively Solless you. Yours ever most
affectionately, B. F[RANKLIN.]

1480. TO JEAN BAPTISTE LE ROY (A. p. s.)

Passy, Feb. 25, 1784

MY DEAR FRIEND,

Enclosed I send you a Letter * and sundry Papers I lately
recd from Mr Eckhardt of Utrecht, a most ingenious Mech-
anician whom I first knew in London. You will see what he
desires and what Answer I have made him. If you can do
him any Service, I need not pray you to do it, because you
have a Pleasure in assisting Genius. Show if you please
what he says of the Baloons, to Mr Montgolfier. I long to

see you, being ever

Yours most affectionately

B. FRANKLIN.

1481. TO COMTE DE VERGENNES (A. p. s.)

Passy, Feb. 26, 1784.

SIR : — Mr. Williams, desiring no farther Surseance against
the Bulk of his Creditors, with whom he has amicably arranged
his Affairs, and to whom he proposes to do exact Justice, I
the more willingly join my Request with his, that he may be
secured against the small Number remaining, who aim at
forcing him to favour them to the Prejudice of the others. I

am, with great Respect, Sir, etc.,

B. FRANKLIN.

1 The postscript to this letter from Eckhardt, January 18, 1784, is in A. P.
S. — ED.

174 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1784
1482. TO JOHN PAUL JONES *

Passy, March 4, 1784.

SIR : — I return herewith the paper you communicated to
me yesterday. I perceive by the extract from M. de Sartine's
letter that it was his intention that all the charges which had
accrued upon the Serapis and Countess of Scarborough
should be deducted from the prize-money payable to the
captors, particularly the expense of victualling the seamen
and prisoners, and that the liquidation of those charges
should be referred to me. This liquidation, however, never
was referred to me, and, if it had been, I should have been
cautious of acting in it, having received no power from the
captors, either French or Americans, authorizing me to de-
cide upon anything respecting their interests. And I cer-
tainly should not have agreed to charge the American captors
with any part of the expense of maintaining the 600 pris-
oners in Holland till they should be exchanged for Americans
in England, as was your intention, and as we both had been
made to expect. With great esteem I have the honour to
be, etc., B. FRANKLIN.

1483. TO BENJAMIN VAUGHAN2

DEAR SIR, Pass* March $> ^

You mention, that I may now see verified all you said about
binding down England to so hard a peace. I suppose you do

1 Printed from "The Complete Works of Benjamin Franklin" (Bigelow),
Vol. VIII, p. 452. -ED.

2 From "The Private Correspondence of Benjamin Franklin" ,
Vol. I, p. 457. — ED.

1784] TO BENJAMIN VAUGHAN '175

not mean by the American treaty; for we were exceeding
favourable, in not insisting on the reparations so justly due
for the wanton burnings of our fine towns, and devastations
of our plantations in a war, now universally allowed to have
been originally unjust. I may add, that you will also see
verified all I said about the article respecting the royalists,
that it will occasion more mischief than it was intended to
remedy, and that it would have been better to have omitted
all mention of them. England might have rewarded them
according to their merits at no very great expense. After
the harms they had done to us, it was imprudent to insist on
our doing them good.

I am sorry for the overturn you mention of those benefi-
cial systems of commerce, that would have been exemplary
to mankind. The making England entirely a free port
would have been the wisest step ever taken for its advan-
tage.

I wish much to see what you say a respectable friend of mine
has undertaken to write respecting the peace. It is a pity it
has been delayed. If it had appeared earlier, it might have
prevented much mischief, by securing our friends in their
situations ; for we know not who will succeed them, nor what
credit they will hold.

By my doubts of the propriety of my going soon to London,
I meant no reflection on my friends or yours. If I had any
call there besides the pleasure of seeing those whom I love,
I should have no doubts. If I live to arrive there, I shall
certainly embrace your kind invitation, and take up my abode
with you. Make my compliments and respects acceptable
to Mrs. Vaughan. I know not what foundation there can be
for saying that I abuse England as much as before the peace.

176 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1784

I am not apt, I think, to be abusive ; of the two, I had rather
be abused.

Enclosed are the letters you desire. I wish to hear from
you more frequently, and to have, through you, such new
pamphlets, as you may think worth my reading. I am ever,

my dear friend, yours most affectionately,

B. FRANKLIN

1484. TO COMTE DE VERGENNES (A. p. s.)

Passy, March 5, 1784.

SIR, I received the letter which your Excellency did me
the honour of writing to me,1 respecting the necessity of pro-
ducing legal proof of the arrangement made with the creditors
mentioned in Mr. Williams' state of his affairs. I am much
obliged by the attention you are so good as to afford this
business on my recommendation, and I send herewith the
original of those arrangements, for your inspection. With

great respect, I am, sir, etc.,

B. FRANKLIN.

P. S. — These papers being Mr. Williams' only discharge,
he requests they may be returned to him after examination.

1485. TO CHARLES THOMSON2
gIR Passy, March 9, 1784.

I received a few days since a letter from Annapolis, dated
June the 5th, in your handwriting, but not signed, acquaint-

1 A letter dated March 4, 1784, and written in reply to Franklin's letter of
February 26, 1784. — ED.

2 From " Diplomatic Correspondence of the United States" (Sparks), Vol.
I»P-377- — ED.

1784] TO CHARLES THOMSON 177

ing the Commissioners with the causes of delay in sending the
ratification of the definitive treaty. The term was expired
before that letter came to hand ; but I hope no difficulty will
arise from a failure in a point not essential, and which was
occasioned by accidents. I have just received from Mr.
Hartley a letter on the subject, of which I enclose a copy.

We have had a terrible winter, too, here, such as the oldest
men do not remember, and indeed it has been very severe all
over Europe.

I have exchanged ratifications with the ambassador of
Sweden, and enclose a copy of that I received from him.

Mr. Jay is lately returned from England. Mr. Laurens
is still there, but proposes departing for America next month,
as does also Mr. Jay, with his family. Mr. Adams is in
Holland, where he has been detained by business and bad
weather. These absences have occasioned some delays in
our business, but not of much importance.

The war long expected between the Turks and Russians
is prevented by a treaty, and it is thought an accommodation
will likewise take place between them and the Emperor.
Everything here continues friendly and favourable to the
United States. I am pestered continually with numbers of
letters from people in different parts of Europe, who would
go to settle in America, but who manifest very extravagant
expectations, such as I can by no means encourage, and who
appear otherwise to be very improper persons. To save
myself trouble, I have just printed some copies of the en-
closed little piece, which I purpose to send hereafter in answer
to such letters. Be pleased to present my dutiful respects to
Congress, and believe me to be, with sincere esteem, dear
Sir, &c. B. FRANKLIN.

VOL. IX — N

I78 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1784

1486. TO HENRY LAURENS (L. c.)

Passy, March 12th, 1784

DEAR SIR : — I received your kind letter by Mr. Chollet
with the Pamphlets and newspapers, and since, a paper of
the 5th, which came under cover to Mr. Grand. I am much
obliged to you for these Communications.

Your sentiments and mine respecting the continual Drafts
on Europe coincide perfectly. I have just received a letter
from Mr. Carmichael dated the i4th past, in which he says;
" Bills from Congress come to hand from time to time, some
of which Mr. M. has advised me of ; the others I am at a loss
what to do with ; but having no Instructions to the contrary
I cannot refuse accepting them. I should be glad to know
your sentiments thereon." All I can say to him in answer is,
that it will behove him to consider where he can find Funds
for Payment, since there is not the smallest Probability that I
shall be able to assist him from hence. Sure it must be some
unavoidable necessity that induces so prudent a Man as
Mr. Morris to take such Measures : and the several States
must be much to blame to leave him under that necessity.

I heartily wish you success in your Endeavors to recover
your £2,800 from the Treasury. I know too well the Dex-
terity of that Board (Dexterity is acquired by much Practice)
in fighting off Payments, not to think you very lucky if you
can obtain your Right by only mounting twice more their 70
steps.

The Commission for a Commercial Treaty, ordered to be
prepared by the Vote of May last, is indeed not yet come to
hand; but by their sending us repeatedly Copies of that

1784] TO HENRY LAURENS 179

Vote ; and nothing more, it looks as if they thought we might
proceed, by virtue of it, to prepare a Plan of a Treaty. Hav-
ing written expressly on the subject, we may expect soon to
know their minds more perfectly.

I thank you much for your information of the proceedings
of the West India People. It seems to me that we cannot be
much hurt by any selfish Regulations the English may make
respecting our Trade with their Islands. Those who at pres-
ent wish to kick the Hedge-hog, will grow tired of that sport
when they find their own Toes bleed.

I have just received a letter from the Secretary of Congress,
Mr. Thomson, of which I inclose a Copy. The Term for
exchanging the Ratifications was expired before it came to
hand. Mr. Hartley having frequently written to me to know
if the Ratification was arrived, I have communicated to him
this Letter, that he might see the delay was occasioned only
by qnforeseen Accidents, and that we had reason to expect
receiving it by the return of the Washington Packet. I do not
imagine that any difficulty will be occasioned by this Circum-
stance; but perhaps it may not be amiss, if you are well
enough, to see Mr. Hartley on the subject, and should any
Agreement to extend the Term be necessary, you can enter
into it as well as if we were all present.

I write this in great pain from the Gout in both Feet ; but
my young friend, your son, having informed me that he sets
out for London to-morrow, I could not slip the opportunity,
as perhaps it is the only safe one that may occur before your
departure for America. I wish mine was as near. I think I
have reason to complain, that I am so long without an answer
from Congress to my request of Recall. I wish rather to die
in my own Country than here; and though the upper part

i8o THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1784

of the Building appears yet tolerably firm, yet, being under-
min'd by the Stone and Gout united, its Fall cannot be far
distant.

You are so good as to offer me your friendly Services. You
cannot do me one more acceptable at present, than that of
forwarding my Dismission. In all other respects, as well as
that, I shall ever look on your Friendship as an Honour to me ;
being with sincere and great esteem, dear Sir, &c.

B. FRANKLIN.

P.S. March 13** Having had a tolerable night, I find
myself something better this morning. In reading over my
letter, I perceive an Omission of my thanks for your kind
Assurances of never forsaking my Defence, should there be
need. I apprehend that the violent Antipathy of a certain
person to me may have produced some Calumnies, which,
what you have seen and heard here may enable you easily to
refute. You will thereby exceedingly oblige one, who has
lived beyond all other Ambition, than that of dying with the
fair Character he has long endeavoured to deserve. As to
my Infallibility, which you do not undertake to maintain, I
am too modest myself to claim it, that is, in general; tho'
when we come to particulars > I, like other, people, give it up
with difficulty. Steele says, that the difference between the
Church of Rome, and the Church of England on that point,
is only this; that the one pretends to be infallible, and the
other to be never in the wrong. In this latter Sense, we are
most of us Church of England men, though few of us confess
it, and express it so naturally and frankly, as a certain great
Lady here, who said, "I don't know how it happens, but I
meet with nobody, except myself, that is always in the right ;
// n'y a que moi qui a toujours raison"

1784] TO LA SABLIERE DE LA CONDAMINE 181

My Grandson joins me in affectionate Respects to you and
the young lady ; with best wishes for your Health and Pros-
perity.

1487. TO MRS. MARY HEWSON l (P. c.)

Passy, March 19, 1784.

You will forget me quite, my dear old Friend, if I do not
write to you now and then.

I still exist, and still enjoy some Pleasure in that Existence,
tho' now in my 79th year. Yet I feel the Infirmities of Age
come on so fast, and the Building to need so many Repairs,
that in a little time the Owner will find it cheaper to pull it
down and build a new one. I wish, however, to see you first,
but I begin to doubt the Possibility. My Children join in
Love to you and yours, with your affectionate Friend,

B. FRANKLIN.

1488. TO LA SABLIERE DE LA CONDAMINE2

(A. P. S.)
Passy, March 19, 1784

SIR,

I received the very obliging Letter you did me honour of
writing to me the 8th Inst. with the epigram 8 &c. for which
please to accept my Thanks.

1 From the original in the possession of T. Hewson Bradford, M.D. — ED.

2 A physician who wrote to Franklin from " Chateau de Colet a Steroman
de Beauvoir, par St. Marcellin, en Dauphine, le 8 Mars 1784" (A. P. S.). He
was the author of" Memoires sur PInoculation de la Petite Verole," Paris, 1768
— ED.

8 " Epigramme — sur les Balons aerostatiques dont tout le monde raffole
aujourd'hui.

Charles, Pilatres, Montgolfier,
Vos balons aerostatiques,

1 82 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1784

You desire my Sentiments concerning the Cures perform'd
by Comus & Mesmer. I think that in general, Maladies
caus'd by Obstructions may be treated by Electricity with
Advantage. As to the Animal Magnetism, so much talk'd
of, I am totally unacquainted with it, and must doubt its
Existence till I can see or feel some Effect of it. None of
the Cures said to be perform'd by it, have fallen under my
Observation ; and there being so many Disorders which cure
themselves and such a Disposition in Mankind to deceive
themselves and one another on these Occasions; and living
long having given me frequent Opportunities of seeing certain
Remedies cry'd up as curing everything, and yet soon after
totally laid aside as useless, I cannot but fear that the Expec-
tation of great Advantage from the new Method of treating
Diseases, will prove a Delusion. That Delusion may how-
ever in some cases be of use while it lasts. There are in every
great rich City a Number of Persons who are never in health,
because they are fond of Medicines and always taking them,
whereby they derange the natural Functions, and hurt their
Constitutions. If these People can be persuaded to forbear

J'en conviens, sont fort magnifiques ;
Mais, on ne S9auroit s'y fier. —
— Laissons a chacun son domaine ;
Dieu fit les airs pour les oiseaux,
Aux poissons il donna les eaux,
Et la terre a 1'espece humaine, —
Cultivons-la mes chers amis, —
Traivaillons, — c'est la mon avis ;
Nous en ferons mieux nos affaires ;
Tandisque est fous imprudens,
Livres a leurs doctes chimeres,
Iront, voyageurs temeraires,
Prendre la lune avec les dents."

This feu d' esprit was sent by its author to the General Journal of France,
but it was rejected. — ED.

1784] AN ECONOMICAL PROJECT 183

their Drugs in Expectation of being cured by only the Phy-
sician's Finger or an Iron Rod pointing at them, they may
possibly find good Effects tho' they mistake the Cause. I

have the honour to be, Sir, &c.

[B. FRANKLIN.]

1489. TO M. MAZUE l (A. P. s.)

Passy, March 19, 1784

SIR

I received your Favour of the 27th past, proposing the Cul-
tivation of the Vine hi America. Our people conceive that
it is yet too early to put such a project in Execution. Labour
is too dear there, and the Culture of Wheat more profitable
& certain ; in Exchange for which either directly or indirectly,
we can procure the Wines of Europe.

I cannot therefore give you any Hopes of Success in such
an Enterprise; for tho' proper Land & Climate might be
found, the Wines could not be produc'd so cheap as they are

imported. I have the honour to be Sir

[B. FRANKLIN.]

1490. AN ECONOMICAL PROJECT2
TO THE AUTHORS OF THE JOURNAL OF PARIS.

MESSIEURS,

You often entertain us with accounts of new discoveries.
Permit me to communicate to the public, through your paper,

1 In answer to a letter from Marseilles, dated February 27, 1784 (A. P. S.).
— ED.

2 No attempt has hitherto been made to assign a date to this bagatelle.
Quinquet invented the lamp that bears his name early in 1784. Evidently

184 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1784

one that has lately been made by myself, and which I conceive
may be of great utility.

I was the other evening in a grand company, where the
new lamp of Messrs. Quinquet and Lange was introduced,
and much admired for its splendour; but a general inquiry
was made, whether the oil it consumed was not in proportion
to the light it afforded, in which case there would be no sav-
ing in the use of it. No one present could satisfy us hi that
point, which all agreed ought to be known, it being a very
desirable thing to lessen, if possible, the expense of lighting
our apartments, when every other article of family expense
was so much augmented.

I was pleased to see this general concern for economy, for
I love economy exceedingly.

I went home, and to bed, three or four hours after midnight,
with my head full of the subject. An accidental sudden
noise waked me about six in the morning, when I was sur-
prised to find my room filled with light; and I imagined at
first, that a number of those lamps had been brought into it ;
but, rubbing my eyes, I perceived the light came in at the win-
dows. I got up and looked out to see what might be the
occasion of it, when I saw the sun just rising above the
horizon, from whence he poured his rays plentifully into my
chamber, my domestic having negligently omitted, the pre-
ceding evening, to close the shutters.

I looked at my watch, which goes very well, and found that
it was but six o'clock; and still thinking it something ex-
traordinary that the sun should rise so early, I looked into the

this article was written while that lamp was still exciting curiosity by its
novelty. From page 186 it appears that the exact day of the composition was
March 20, 1784. — ED.

1784] AN ECONOMICAL PROJECT 185

almanac, where I found it to be the hour given for his rising
on that day. I looked forward, too, and found he was to
rise still earlier every day till towards the end of June; and
that at no time in the year he retarded his rising so long as
till eight o'clock. Your readers, who with me have never
seen any signs of sunshine before noon, and seldom regard
the astronomical part of the almanac, will be as much aston-
ished as I was, when they hear of his rising so early; and
especially when I assure them, that he gives light as soon as
he rises. I am convinced of this. I am certain of my fact.
One cannot be more certain of any fact. I saw it with my
own eyes. And, having repeated this observation the three
following mornings, I found always precisely the same re-
sult.

Yet it so happens, that when I speak of this discovery to
others, I can easily perceive by their countenances, though
they forbear expressing it in words, that they do not quite
believe me. One, indeed, who is a learned natural philoso-
pher, has assured me that I must certainly be mistaken as
to the circumstance of the light coming into my room; for
it being well known, as he says, that there could be no light
abroad at that hour, it follows that none could enter from
without ; and that of consequence, my windows being accident-
ally left open, instead of letting in the light, had only served
to let out the darkness; and he used many ingenious argu-
ments to show me how I might, by that means, have been
deceived. I owned that he puzzled me a little, but he did not
satisfy me ; and the subsequent observations I made, as above
mentioned, confirmed me in my first opinion.

This event has given rise in my mind to several serious
and important reflections. I considered that, if I had not

1 86 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1784

been awakened so early in the morning, I should have slept
six hours longer by the light of the sun, and in exchange have
lived six hours the following night by candle-light; and, the
latter being a much more expensive light than the former, my
love of economy induced me to muster up what little arith-
metic I was master of, and to make some calculations, which I
shall give you, after observing that utility is, in my opinion
the test of value in matters of invention, and that a discovery
which can be applied to no use, or is not good for something,
is good for nothing.

I took for the basis of my calculation the supposition that
there are one hundred thousand families in Paris, and that
these families consume in the night half a pound of bougies,
or candles, per hour. I think this is a moderate allowance,
taking one family with another; for though I believe some
consume less, I know that many consume a great deal more.
Then estimating seven hours per day as the medium quantity
between the time of the sun's rising and ours, he rising during
the six following months from six to eight hours before noon,
and there being seven hours of course per night in which we
burn candles, the account will stand thus ; —

In the six months between the 2Oth of March and the 2oth
of September, there are

Nights 183

Hours of each night hi which we burn candles 7

Multiplication gives for the total number of
hours 1,281

These 1,281 hours multiplied by 100,000, the

number of inhabitants, give 128,100,000

One hundred twenty- eight millions and one

hundred thousand hours, spent at Paris by

1784] AN ECONOMICAL PROJECT 187

candle-light, which, at half a pound of wax
and tallow per hour, gives the weight of . . 64,050,000
Sixty-four millions and fifty thousand of pounds,
which, estimating the whole at the medium
price of thirty sols the pound, makes the sum
of ninety-six millions and seventy-five thou-
sand livres tournois 96,075,000

An immense sum ! that the city of Paris might save every
year, by the economy of using sunshine instead of candles.

If it should be said, that people are apt to be obstinately
attached to old customs, and that it will be difficult to in-
duce them to rise before noon, consequently my discovery
can be of little use ; I answer, Nil desperandum. I believe all
who have common sense, as soon as they have learnt from
this paper that it is daylight when the sun rises, will contrive
to rise with him; and, to compel the rest, I would propose
the following regulations;

First. Let a tax be laid of a louis per window, on every
window that is provided with shutters to keep out the light
of the sun.

Second. Let the same salutary operation of police be
made use of, to prevent our burning candles, that inclined
us last winter to be more economical in burning wood ; that
is, let guards be placed in the shops of the wax and tallow
chandlers, and no family be permitted to be supplied with
more than one pound of candles per week.

Third. Let guards also be posted to stop all the coaches,
&c. that would pass the streets after sun-set, except those of
physicians, surgeons, and midwives.

Fourth. Every morning, as soon as the sun rises, let all
the bells in every church be set ringing; and if that is not

i88 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1784

sufficient, let cannon be fired in every street, to wake the
sluggards effectually, and make them open their eyes to see
their true interest.

All the difficulty will be in the first two or three days ; after
which the reformation will be as natural and easy as the pres-
ent irregularity; for, ce n'est que le premier pas qui coftte.
Oblige a man to rise at four hi the morning, and it is more
than probable he will go willingly to bed at eight in the
evening ; and, having had eight hours sleep, he will rise more
willingly at four in the morning following. But this sum of
ninety-six millions and seventy-five thousand livres is not the
whole of what may be saved by my economical project. You
may observe, that I have calculated upon only one half of
the year, and much may be saved hi the other, though the
days are shorter. Besides, the immense stock of wax and
tallow left unconsumed during the summer, will probably
make candles much cheaper for the ensuing winter, and con-
tinue them cheaper as long as the proposed reformation
shall be supported.

For the great benefit of this discovery, thus freely com-
municated and bestowed by me on the public, I demand
neither place, pension, exclusive privilege, nor any other
reward whatever. I expect only to have the honour of it.
And yet I know there are little, envious minds, who will, as
usual, deny me this, and say, that my invention was known
to the ancients, and perhaps they may bring passages out of
the old books in proof of it. I will not dispute with these
people, that the ancients knew not the sun would rise at
certain hours; they possibly had, as we have, almanacs that
predicted it ; but it does not follow thence, that they knew he
gave light as soon as he rose. This is what I claim as my dis-

1784] TO JOHN PAUL JONES 189

covery. If the ancients knew it, it might have been long
since forgotten ; for it certainly was unknown to the moderns,
at least to the Parisians, which to prove, I need use but one
plain simple argument. They are as well instructed, judi-
cious, and prudent a people as exist anywhere in the world,
all professing, like myself, to be lovers of economy; and,
from the many heavy taxes required from them by the
necessities of the state, have surely an abundant reason to be
economical. I say it is impossible that so sensible a people,
under such circumstances, should have lived so long by the
smoky, unwholesome, and enormously expensive light of
candles, if they had really known, that they might have had
as much pure light of the sun for nothing. I am, &c.

A SUBSCRIBER.

1491. TO JOHN PAUL JONES (B. if.)

Passy, March 25, 1784

SIR

I return herewith the Papers you communicated to me
yesterday. I perceive by the Extract from M. de Sartine's
Letter 1 that it was his Intention all the Charges which had
accru'd upon the Serapis and Countess oj Scarborough should
be deducted from the Prize money payable to the Captors,
particularly the Expence of Victualling the Seamen and
Prisoners ; and that the Liquidation of those Charges should
be referr'd to me. This Liquidation however never was
referr'd to me; and if it had, I should have been cautious
of acting in it, having receiv'd no Power from the Captors,
either French or Americans, authorising me to decide upon

1 Dated May 29, 1780. — ED.

190 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1784

anything respecting their Interests. And I certainly should
not have agreed to charge the American Captors with any
Part of the Expence of maintaining the 600 Prisoners in
Holland till they could be exchanged, when none of them were
exchanged for Americans in England, as was your Intention,
& as we both had been made to expect.
With great Esteem, I have the honour to be

Sir, Your most obedient

humble Servant

B. FRANKLIN

1492. TO JOHN ADAMS (M. H. s.)

Passy March 31, 1784

SIR

I have the honour of acquainting your Excellency, that
our express from Congress is at last arrived, with their
Ratification of the Definitive Treaty. Inclosed I send Copies
of the President's Letter, the Recommendatory Resolution,
and the Proclamation, together with three Letters for your-
self. We have written to Mr Hartley that we are now ready
to make the Exchange.

With great Respect, I am, etc.

B. FRANKLIN.

• i ;

1493. TO CHARLES THOMSON '

Passy, March 31, 1784.

DEAR SIR,

I write this line by the English packet, just to inform you,
that Colonel Harmar arrived here last Monday evening with

1 First printed by Sparks, Vol. X, p. 439. — ED.

1784] TO CHARLES THOMSON 191

the ratification, and that Mr. Jay and myself (Messrs. Adams
and Laurens being absent) have written to Mr. Hartley at
London, that we are ready to exchange with him. I have
not heard that the delay is likely to occasion any difficulty.
I had before communicated to him your letter of the 5th of
January, which gave the reason of it. With great esteem,
I am B. FRANKLIN.

1494. TO MADAME BRILLON (A. p. s.)

Passy March 31, '84.

Voici, ma tre*s cher Amie, une de mes Plaisanteries serieuses,
ou sourdes, que je vous envois, esperant qu'elle pourra
peutetre vous amuser un peu. Au quel cas, vous me recom-
penserez en me donnant je n'ose dire un Baiser, car les votres
sont trop precieux, et vous en e*tes trop chiche; mais vous
me j'ouerez un Noel et Pexcellent Marche des Insurgents.

B. F.

1495. TO CHARLES THOMSON '

Passy, April 16th, 1784.
DEAR FRIEND,

I received your kind Letters by Colonel Harmar, and
Lieut-Colonel Frank, with the Dispatches, in good order;
triplicates of which are since come to hand. You will see
by our letter to the President, that we daily expect Mr.
Hartley from London, with the British Ratification to ex-
change with us. There was no difficulty occasioned by the
kpse of the term.

1 From the original in the New York Historical Society. — ED.

I92 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1784

I send you herewith four packets of newspapers, by which
you will be informed of the confusions that have reigned all
winter in England, and the probability of their being finish'd
by the choice of a new Parliament, in which the present Min-
istry will have a great majority. The n. papers are directed
for the Presid*. You are good in excusing the trouble I
have given you with so many little affairs and enquiries, and
enabling me to give some answer to the persons who make
them. I am pestered continually with such matters.

I am happy in learning from you, that disposition begins
to prevail in the States, to comply with the requisitions of
Congress, and Funds for the regular payment of the Interest,
and discharge of the Principal of the Debts contracted by
the War. Punctuality and exact justice will contribute more
to our reputation, and, of course, to our strength, than people
generally imagine. Without those virtues, we shall find it
difficult in case 6f another war to obtain either friends or
money; and a reliance on that may encourage and hasten
another attack upon us. Gratitude to our former bene-
factors is another point we should seize every opportunity
of demonstrating. I place, with you, much confidence in the
good sense of our countrymen; and thence I hope, that the
endeavours of some persons on both sides the water, to sow
jealousies and suspicions, and create misunderstandings
between France and us, will be ineffectual.

A Commission from Congress for a Commercial Treaty
with Britain has long been expected. If the intention of
sending such a Commission is not changed, I wish it may
arrive before Mr. Laurens leaves us, who has a more perfect
knowledge of the subject than any of us, and might be greatly
useful. A Minister from Denmark has been waiting in Paris

1784] TO JOHN WALTER 193

all winter for the result of Congress on the proposed
Treaty, a plan of which was long sent, as also one for a
Treaty with Portugal. I hope by the return of the Wash-
ington pacquet, we may receive some directions respecting
them. I am, with sincere and great esteem, my Dear
Friend, yours most affectionately, B. FRANKLIN.

1496. TO JOHN WALTER1 (L. c.)

Passy, April 17, 1784.
SIR,

I have received a Book, for which I understand I am obliged
to you, the "Introduction to Logography." I have read it

1 John Walter (1739-1812), founder of The Times, succeeded to his
father's business as a coal merchant in the city of London. He abandoned
it for that of an underwriter, failed in consequence of the American war, and
announced his bankruptcy in 1782. Two years later he purchased the
premises in Printing House Square, the site of the Black friars Theatre, which
had been unoccupied since the removal of Eyre and Strahan in 1770, where he
began business as a printer, using Johnson's invention of " logotypes " or
founts composed of complete words, instead of separate letters. Some forty
books were printed by the logographic process and sold by John Walter. He
also started a newspaper called The Daily Universal Register, of which the
first number, " printed logographically," was issued January I, 1 785. The nine-
hundred-and-fortieth number (January I, 1788) was entitled The Times, or
Daily Universal Register, and was also " printed logographically." A letter
from John Walter to Lord Kenyon, July 6, 1799 (Hist. Mss. Comm. I4th
Report App. Pt. IV, p. 551), contains the following interesting personal narra-
tive. " Among many other projects which offered themselves to my view was
a plan to print logographically. I sat down closely to digest it, and formed a
fount which reduced the English language from ninety thousand words which
were usually used in printing to about fifteen hundred. ... By this means I
was enabled to print much faster than by taking up single letters. ... I was
advised to get a number of nobility and men of letters ... to patronise the
plan, to which his Majesty was to have been the patron. But happening
unfortunately as it turned out, to correspond with Dr. Franklin, then ambassa-
VOL. IX — o

I94 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1784

with Attention, and, as far as I understand it, am much pleas'd
with it. I do not perfectly comprehend the Arrangement of
his Cases ; but the Reduction of the Number of Pieces by the
Roots of Words, and their different Terminations, is extreamly
ingenious ; and I like much the Idea of cementing the Letters,
instead of casting Words or Syllables, which I formerly
attempted, and succeeded in having invented a Mould, and
Method by which I could in a few minutes, form a Matrice,
and adjust it, of any Word in any Fount at pleasure, and pro-
ceed to cast from it.

I send enclosed a specimen of some of my Terminations,
and would willingly instruct Mr. Johnson * in the Method if
he desired it; but he has a better. He mentions some Im-
provements of Printing that have been proposed, but takes
no Notice of one published here at Paris, in 1776 ; so I suppose
he has neither seen nor heard of it. It is in a Quarto Pam-
phlet, entitled, "Nouveau Systeme Typographique, ou Moyen
de diminuer, de Moitie, dans toutes les Imprimeries de V Eu-
rope, le Travail et les Frais de Composition, de Correction, et
de Distribution, decouvert en 1774, par Madame de * * *.2
Frustra fit per plura quod potest fieri per pauciora. A Parisy
de nmprimerie Royale, MDCCLXXVL" It is dedicated

dor at Paris, whose opinion I wished for, his name was among my list of sub-
scribers, and when it was given, among near two hundred more, to the King's
librarian and a fount of the cemented words had been sent there [Buckingham
Palace] for his Majesty's inspection and acceptance, I found an increasing
coolness in the librarian, and afterwards a note from him, saying the King had
viewed it with pleasure, but, there being no room in Buckingham House, he
desired I would send some person to take it away. Thus ended royal patron-
age." See J. R. Thursfield in " Diet. Nat. Biog." — ED.

1 Henry Johnson, the inventor, from whom John Walter purchased the
patent rights. — ED.

2 Madame de St. Paul. — ED.

1784] TO JOHN WALTER 195

to the King, who was at the Expence of the Experiments.
Two Commissaries were named to examine and render an
Account of them ; they were M. Desmarets, of the Academy
of Sciences, and M. Barbou,4 an eminent Printer. Their
Report concludes thus; "Nous nous contenterons de dire ici,
que M. de St. Paul a rempli les engagemens qu'il avoit con-
tracted avec le Gouvernement ; que ses experiences projete*es
ont e*te* conduites avec beaucoup de me*thode et d' intelligence
de sa part ; et que par des calculs longs et pe*nibles, qui sont le
fruit d'un grand nombre de combinaisons raisonne'es, il en a
de*duit plusieurs re*sultats qui me'ritent d'etre proposes aux
artistes, et qui nous paroissent propres a e*clairer la pratique
de Pimprimerie actuelle, et a en abre*ger certainement les
proce'de'es. . . . Son projet ne peut que gagner aux con-
tradictions qu'il essuiera sans doute, de la part des gens de
Part. A Paris, le 8 Janvier, 1776." The pamphlet consists
of 66 Pages, containing a Number of Tables of Words and
Parts of Words, Explanations of those Tables, Calculations,
answers to Objections, &c. I will endeavour to get one to
send you if you desire it ; mine is bound up with others in a
Volume.

It was after seeing this Piece, that I cast the Syllables I
send you a Sample of. I have not heard, that any of the
Printers here make at present the least use of the Invention
of Madame de * * *. You will observe, that it pretended
only to lessen the Work by one half ; Mr. Johnson's Method
lessens it three fourths. I should be glad to know with what
the Letters are cemented. I think cementing better than

1 Nicolas Desmarest (1725-1805), a student of French industries; and
Joseph-Gerard Barbou (1715-1813), one of a notable family of printers, and
the second of the name to pursue the business in Paris. — ED.

196 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1784

casting them together, because if one Letter happens to
be battered, it may be taken away and another cemented
in its Place. I received no Letter with the Pamphlet.
I am, Sir, &c. B. FRANKLIN.

1497. TO DAVID HARTLEY1 (P.O.)

Passy April 17 1784

DEAR SIR,

The Commissioners have received the Letter you did them
the honour of writing to them the 9th Instant, and are glad
to learn that they may expect the Pleasure of seeing you soon
again at Paris. It is a particular Satisfaction to me, as it
will give me an opportunity of communicating an Idea to
you in Conversation which may tend to promote your excel-
lent views of " effecting a cordial & conciliatory Intercourse
between our Countries" but which I cannot so well explain
at present by writing.

The Bearer, Col. Harmar,2 is an American of good Char-
acter, who visits England in Curiosity to see the Country
and People he has been fighting against. I wish to give him
a good Opinion of them by the Sample he may be acquainted
with, and therefore beg leave to recommend him to your
Acquaintance & Civilities.

With great and inalterable Esteem & Affection
I am ever my dear Friend

Yours most sincerely
B. FRANKLIN

1 From a copy in the collection of Mrs. L. Z. Leiter. — ED.

2 Josiah Harmar (1753-1813) entered the Continental army in the 1st
Pennsylvanian regiment and served throughout the war. He took the ratifi-
cation of the definitive treaty to France in 1784. — ED.

1784] TO BENJAMIN WEBB 197

1498. TO BENJAMIN WEBB > (L. c.)

Passy, April 22*, 1784.

DEAR SIR,

I received yours of the i5th Instant, and the Memorial it
inclosed.2 The account they give of your situation grieves
me. I send you herewith a Bill for Ten Louis d'ors. I do
not pretend to give such a Sum ; I only lend it to you. When
you shall return to your Country with a good Character, you
cannot fail of getting into some Business, that will in time
enable you to pay all your Debts. In that Case, when you
meet with another honest Man in similar Distress, you must
pay me by lending this Sum to him; enjoining him to dis-
charge the Debt by a like operation, when he shall be able,
and shall meet with such another opportunity. I hope it
may thus go thro' many hands, before it meets with a Knave
that will stop its Progress. This is a trick of mine for doing
a deal of good with a little money. I am not rich enough to
afford much in good works, and so am obliged to be cunning
and make the most of a little. With best wishes for the success
of your Memorial, and your future prosperity, I am, dear

Sir, your most obedient servant,

B. FRANKLIN.

1 The Duke of Sussex wrote in the margin of his copy of Franklin's works
(now in B. M.), " the idea of this loan is most beautiful and bespeaks a good-
ness of heart for which one must love the man." — ED.

2 This letter written at Geneva is in A. P. S. The writer had been declared
a bankrupt in England, fell under suspicion of having secreted property, and
fled to the continent. He now wished to return to England and reembark
in business. — ED.

198 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1784

1499. TO HENRY LAURENS (L. c.)

Passy, April 29, 1784

DEAR SIR: — I received your Favour by Mr. Bourdieu
and yesterday another of the i8th, per Mr. Hartley, who also
gave me the Gazette with the Proclamation. I am with you
very little uneasy about that, or any other Measures the Min-
isters may think proper to take with respect to the Commerce
with us. We shall do very well. They have long lost Sight
of their true Interest, and are now wandring blindfold in
search of it, without being able to find it; but they may
jeel what they cannot at present see; and all as you say will
come right at last.

Mr. Hartley seems to have some Expectation of receiving
Instructions to negociate a Commercial Treaty. He thinks
he could hardly be sent here merely to exchange the Rati-
fications. I have not much dependance on this. Yet as
we are authoriz'd to receive Overtures from any European
Power, and to plan Treaties to be sent to Congress for Appro-
bation, and I am not yet dismiss'd, I shall much regret your
Absence if such a Treaty should be brought upon the Tapis :
for Mr. Jay will probably be gone, and I shall be left alone,
or with Mr. A., and I can have no favourable Opinion of what
may be the Offspring of a Coalition between my ignorance
and his Positiveness. It would help much if we could have
from you a Sketch of the Outlines, and leading Features of
the Treaty, in case your propos'd Embarkation for America
should take Place before Mr. Hartley makes his Overtures.

There being but nine States present at the Ratification, was
owing only to the extreme Inclemency of the Season, which

1784] TO BENJAMIN VAUGHAN 199

obstructed Travelling. There was in Congress one Mem-
ber from each of three more States ; and all were unanimous
tho' the Votes of those three could not be reckon'd. It is
therefore without Foundation that those Gentlemen flatter
themselves from that Circumstance with a Defection of four
States from the Union, and hence a Probability of a Return
of the whole to the Dominion of Britain. What Folly !

My grandson joins in respectful Compliments and best
Wishes with, Dear Sir, your most obedient humble Servant.

B. FRANKLIN.

1500. TO BENJAMIN VAUGHAN1

Passy, April 29, 1784.

MY DEAR FRIEND,

I received your kind letters of the i6th and 2oth instant.
I thank you for your philosophical news. We have none here.
I see your philosophers are in the way of finding out at last
what fire is. I have long been of opinion, that it exists every-
where in the state of a subtile fluid ; that too much of that
fluid in our flesh gives us the sensation we call heat ; too little,
cold ; its vibrations, light. That all solid or fluid substances,
which are inflammable, have been composed of it; their
dissolution in returning to their original fluid state, we call
fire. This subtile fluid is attracted by plants and animals
in their growth, and consolidated; is attracted by other
substances, thermometers, &c. variously; has a particular
affinity with water, and will quit many other bodies to attach
itself to water, and go off with it in evaporation. Adieu.

Yours, most sincerely,

B. FRANKLIN.

1 Printed from Sparks, Vol. VI, p. 454. — ED.

200 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1784

1501. A LETTER FROM CHINA1

Lisbon, May 5, 1784.

SIR,

AGREEABLE to your desire, I have examined the sailor more
particularly, and shall now give you the circumstances of his
story, with all the observations he made in the country, con-
cerning which you are so curious. He appears a more intel-
ligent fellow than seamen in general. He says that he be-
longed to the Resolution, an English ship, one of those that
made the last voyage with Captain Cook. That on their
return, being at Macao, he and a comrade of his were over-
persuaded by a Portuguese captain, who spoke English and
Chinese, to desert, in order to go with him in a brigantine to
the northwestern coast of America, to purchase sea-beaver
skins from the savages, by which they hoped to make fortunes.
That accordingly they took a boat belonging to the ship, got
ashore in the night, turned the boat adrift, and were hid by
the Portuguese captain till the Resolution was gone. That
this was in January, 1780, and that in April following they
sailed from Macao, intending to go first to a place he calls
Nooky-Bay, in latitude 50. That they had twenty-five men,
with eight guns and small arms for their defence, and a quan-
tity of iron ware, cutlery, with European and Chinese toys,
for trade.

That about the beginning of May, in a dark night, the
captain being sick in his cabin, they were surprised and sud-
denly boarded by two boats full of armed men, to the number
of forty, who took possession of the brig, no resistance being

iFrom The Repository, May, 1788. — ED.

1784] A LETTER FROM CHINA 201

made. That these strangers altered her course, and stood,
as he saw by the compass, to the northwest ; that the next day
the captain understood by a Chinese among them, that they
were Curry * Ladrones, or pirates ; that they had been cruis-
ing on the coast of China, and had lost their vessel on a reef
the night before; and it was explained to the captain, that
if he and his people would work the ship, and fight upon occa-
sion, they should be well used, and have a share of plunder,
or otherwise be thrown overboard. That all consented, and
three days after they saw land, and coasted it northward;
that they took two Chinese junks, who were sent away steer-
ing northeast, eight men being put into each, and some of
the Chinese taken out. That the brig went on to the north-
ward for four days after, without taking any thing ; but run-
ning too near the coast in chase of another Chinese, they stuck
fast on a shoal in a falling tide; that they hoped to get off
by the night flood, but were mistaken, and the next morning
were surrounded by a great many armed boats and vessels,
which the chased vessel, which got in, had probably occa-
sioned to come out against them. That at first they beat off
those vessels, but, reinforcements coming, they saw it im-
possible to escape, and submitted, and were all brought on
shore and committed to prison.

That a few days after they were taken out and examined,
and, the Portuguese captain making it appear that he and his
people were prisoners to the Ladrones, they were recommitted,
and the Ladrones all beheaded. That the brig, being got off,
was, after some time, as he understood, by an order from
court, restored to the Portuguese captain, who went away in
her with all his people, except this relator and a Portuguese

1 Perhaps Corf a. — S.

202 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1784

lad, who, being both ill of the flux, and likely to die, were left
behind in prison. What became of the brig afterwards, he
never heard. That they were well attended in their sickness,
and soon recovered, but were not set at liberty. That the
prison was a very clean, airy place, consisting of several courts
and ranges of building, the whole securely walled and guarded,
and governed with great order. That every body was obliged
to work; but his work was not hard, it was weaving rushes
upon hoops for the bottom of chairs, and they had some
small pay for them, which, added to the prison allowance of
rice and chong, was more than a sufficiency; and he thinks
there are no such comfortable prisons in England, at least
among those he had been acquainted with. That he applied
himself to learn the Chinese language, and succeeded so far
at last as to understand and make himself understood in
common matters. That some of the most orderly prisoners
were allowed to assist the neighbouring country people in
time of harvest, under the care of overseers. That he and his
companion were from time to time made to expect that orders
would come from court for their release; but he supposes
they were quite forgotten. They had written frequently to
the Popish missionaries at Pekin, requesting their solicita-
tions, but received no answer; and perhaps the prison-
keeper, who had a profit on their labour, never sent their
letters.

That after more than a year's confinement, being in the
country at a harvest, he accidentally cut his foot very badly,
and was left behind at a farmer's house to be cured; the
farmer undertaking to return him to prison when recovered.
That he got into favour in the family; that he taught the
farmer's wife to make soap, which he understood, it being

1784] A LETTER FROM CHINA 203

his father's trade. That he had himself been apprentice 'to a
shoemaker before he took to the sea ; and, finding some leather
in the house, he made himself, with such tools as he could get
or make, a large shoe for his lame foot. That the farmer ad-
mired the shoe much above the Chinese shoes, and requested
a pair for himself. That he accordingly made shoes for the
farmer, his wife, two sons, and a daughter. That he was
obliged first to make the lasts for all of them ; and that it is
not true that the feet of Chinese women are less than those
of English women. That, these shoes being admired, many
inhabitants of the neighbouring village desired to have of
them ; so he was kept constantly at work, the farmer finding
the leather, selling the shoes, and allowing him some share
of the profit, by which he got about an ounce of silver per week,
all money being weighed there. That the Chinese tan their
leather with oaken chips, saw-dust, and shavings, which are
saved by the carpenters for the farmers, who boil them, and
steep their hides in the warm liquor, so that it is sooner fit
for use. That the farmer's wife began to get money by selling
soap, and they proposed to obtain his liberty, and keep him
in the family, by giving him their daughter, when a little
older, for a wife, with a piece of land ; and he believes they
did prevail with the jailor, by presents, to connive at his stay,
on pretence of his lameness.

He liked their way of living, except their sometimes eat-
ing dog's flesh. Their pork was excellent ; the rice, dressed
various ways, all very good, and the chong he grew fond of,
and learnt to make it. They put kidney beans in soak for
twenty-four hours, then grind them in a hand-mill, pouring
in water from time to time to wash the meal from between the
stones, which falls into a tub covered with a coarse cloth that

204 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1784

lets the meal and water pass through, retaining only the skins
of the beans ; that a very small quantity of alum, or some
sort of salt, put into it, makes the meal settle to the bottom,
when they pour off the water. That it is eaten various ways,
by all sorts of people, with milk, with meat, as thickening
in broth, &c. That they used also to put a little alum in their
river water when foul, to clear it for use, and by that means
made it as clear as rock water, the dirt all settling. Their
house was near a great river, but he does not remember its
name. That he lived in this family about a year, but did not
get the daughter, her grandfather refusing his consent to her
marriage with a stranger.

That they have a sort of religion, with priests and churches,
but do not keep Sunday, nor go to church, being very heathen-
ish. That in every house there is a little idol, to which they
give thanks, make presents, and show respect in harvest time,
but very little at other times ; and, inquiring of his master why
they did not go to church to pray, as we do in Europe, he was
answered, they paid the priests to pray for them, that they
might stay at home and mind their business; and that it
would be a folly to pay others for praying, and then go and
do the praying themselves ; and that the more work they did
while the priests prayed, the better able they were to pay them
well for praying.

That they have horses, but not many; the breed small,
but strong ; kept chiefly for war, and not used in labour, nor
to draw carriages. That oxen are used ; but the chief of their
labour is done by men, not only in the fields, but on the roads,
travellers being carried from town to town in bamboo chairs,
by hired chairmen, throughout the country ; and goods also,
either hanging on poles between two, and sometimes four men,

1784] A LETTER FROM CHINA 205

or in wheel-barrows ; they having no coaches, carts, or wag-
gons, and the roads being paved with flat stones.

They say that their great father (so they call the emperor)
forbids the keeping of horses, because he had rather have his
country filled with his children than with brutes; and one
horse requires as much ground to produce him food, as would
feed six men ; yet some great people obtain leave to keep one
horse for pleasure. That the master, having a farm left to
him by a deceased relation, in a distant part of the country,
sold the land he lived on, and went with the whole family to
take possession, and live on the other. That they embarked
in one of the boats that carry sea fish into the heart of the em-
pire, which are kept fresh even in hot weather, by being packed
in great hampers with layers of ice and straw, and repacked
every two or three days with fresh ice, taken at ice-houses
on the way. That they had been ten days on their voyage,
when they arrived at the new farm, going up always against
the stream. That the owner of the boat, finding him handy
and strong in rowing and working her, and one of the hands
falling sick, persuaded him to go fifteen days farther, promis-
ing him great pay, and to bring him back to the family. But
that, having unloaded the fish, the Chinese went off with his
boat in the night, leaving him behind, without paying him.
That there is a great deal of cheating in China, and no remedy.
That stealing, robbing, and house-breaking are punished
severely ; but cheating is free there in every thing, as cheating
in horses is among our gentlemen in England.

That, meeting at that place with a boat bound towards
Canton in a canal, he thought it might be a means of escap-
ing out of that country, if he went in her ; so he shipped him-
self to work for his passage, though it was with regret he

206 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1784

left for ever the kind family he had so long lived with. That
after twenty-five days' voyage on the canal, the boat stopping
at a little town, he went ashore, and walked about to look at
it, and buy some tobacco ; and in returning he was stopped,
taken up, examined, and sent away, under a guard, across
the country to a mandarin, distant two days' journey.
That here he found the lingo somewhat different, and could
not so well make himself understood; that he was kept a
month in prison before the mandarin had leisure to examine
him. That, having given a true account of himself, as well
as he could, the mandarin set him at liberty, but advised him
to wait the departure of some persons for Canton, with whom
he proposed to send him as a shipwrecked stranger, at the
emperor's expense. That in the mean time he worked in the
mandarin's garden, and conversed with the common people.
He does not recollect the name of the province, but says it
was one of the tea countries ; and that, besides the true tea,
they made a vast deal of counterfeit tea, which they packed
up in boxes, some mixed with good tea, but mostly unmixed,
and sent it away to different sea-ports for the supply of for-
eign countries. That he observed they made ordinary tea
of the leaves of sweet potatoes, which they cut into form by
stamps, and had the art of giving such colour and taste as they
judged proper. When he spoke of this practice as a fraud,
they said there was no harm in it, for strangers liked the false
tea as well, or better, than the true ; and that it was impossible
to load with true tea all the ships that came for it ; China
could not furnish such a quantity ; and, if the demand went
on increasing as it had done some years past, all the leaves
of all the trees in the country would not be sufficient to answer
it. This tea was sold cheap, as he understood twenty catty

1784] A LETTER FROM CHINA 207

of it (a catty is near our pound) for about an ounce of silver.
They did not drink it themselves, but said it was not unwhole-
some, if drunk moderately.

That after some time he set out in the train of seven mer-
chants for Canton, with a passport from the mandarin, going
partly by land, but chiefly by water in canals. That they
stopt a week in a part of the country where a great deal of
China ware is made; that many farmers had little furnaces
in some out-house, where they worked at leisure times, and
made, some nothing but tea-cups, others nothing but saucers,
&c., which they sold to country shopkeepers, who collected
quantities for the merchants. The ware is there very cheap.
He could have bought a dozen pretty cups and saucers for
as much silver as is in an English half-crown.

He says it is not true, that they have large wheel carriages
in China, driven by the wind ; at least he never saw or heard
of any such; but that the wheelbarrow porters indeed, when
passing some great open countries, do sometimes, if the wind
is fair, spread a thin cotton sail, supported by a light bam-
boo mast, which they stick up on their wheelbarrows, and it
helps them along. That he once saw a fleet of near three
hundred sail of those wheelbarrows, each with a double wheel.
That, when he arrived at Canton, he did not make himself
known to the English there, but got down as soon as he could
to Macao, hoping to meet with his Portuguese captain; but
he had never returned. That he worked there in rigging of
vessels, till he had an opportunity of coming home to Europe ;
and, hearing on his arrival here, from an old comrade in the
packet, that his sweetheart is married, and that the Resolution
and Endeavour got home, he shall decline going to England
yet a while, fearing he may be punished for carrying off the

208 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1784

boat ; therefore he has shipped himself, as I wrote you before,
on a voyage to America. He was between three and four years
in China. This is the substance of what I got from him,
and nearly as he related it. He gave me the names of some
places, but I found them hard to remember, and cannot recol-
lect them.

1502. TO SAMUEL MATHER1 (L. c.)

Passy, May 12, 1784.
REVd SIR,

I received your kind letter, with your excellent advice to
the people of the United States, which I read with great pleas-
ure, and hope it will be duly regarded. Such writings, though
they may be lightly passed over by many readers, yet, if they
make a deep impression on one active mind in a hundred, the
effects may be considerable. Permit me to mention one little
instance, which, though it relates to myself, will not be quite
uninteresting to you. When I was a boy, I met with a book,
entitled "Essays to do Good" which I think was written by
your father.2 It had been so little regarded by a former
possessor, that several leaves of it were torn out ; but the re-
mainder gave me such a turn of thinking, as to have an influ-
ence on my conduct through life; for I have always set a
greater value on the character of a doer of good, than on any
other kind of reputation ; and if I have been, as you seem to
think, a useful citizen, the public owes the advantage of it to
that book.

1 Samuel Mather was colleague pastor of the same church to which his
father and grandfather had ministered. He died June 27, 1785.— ED.

2 Cotton Mather. — ED.

1 784] TO SAMUEL MATHER log

You mention your being in your 78th year ; I am in my 79"" ;
we are grown old together. It is now more than 60 years since
I left Boston, but I remember well both your father and grand-
father, having heard them both in the pulpit, and seen them
in their houses. The last time I saw your father was in the
beginning of 1724, when I visited him after my first trip to
Pennsylvania. He received me in his library, and on my
taking leave showed me a shorter way out of the house through
a narrow passage, which was crossed by a beam over head.
We were still talking as I withdrew, he accompanying me be-
hind, and I turning partly towards him, when he said hastily,
"Stoop, stoop!" I did not understand him, till I felt my head
hit against the beam. He was a man that never missed any
occasion of giving instruction, and upon this he said to me,
" You are young, and have the world be j ore you; STOOP as you
go through it, and you will miss many hard thumps." This
advice, thus beat into my head, has frequently been of use
to me; and I often think of it, when I see pride mortified,
and misfortunes brought upon people by their carrying their
heads too high.

I long much to see again my native place, and to lay my
bones there. I left it in 1723 ; I visited it in 1733, 1743, 1753,
and 1763. In 1773 I was in England ; in 1775 I had a sight
of it, but could not enter, it being in possession of the enemy.1
I did hope to have been there in 1783, but could not
obtain my dismission from this employment here; and
now I fear I shall never have that happiness. My best
wishes however attend my dear country. Esto perpetua.

1 In October, 1775, he went to the camp at Cambridge, as one of a com-
mittee from Congress to consult with General Washington respecting the
affairs of the army then besieging Boston. — S.
VOL. ix — P

210 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1784

It is now blest with an excellent constitution; may it last
for ever!

This powerful monarchy continues its friendship for the
United States. It is a friendship of the utmost importance
to our security, and should be carefully cultivated. Britain
has not yet well digested the loss of its dominion over us, and
has still at times some flattering hopes of recovering it. Acci-
dents may increase those hopes, and encourage dangerous
attempts. A breach between us and France would infallibly
bring the English again upon our backs ; and yet we have
some wild heads among our countrymen, who are endeavour-
ing to weaken that connexion ! Let us preserve our reputation
by performing our engagements ; our credit by fulfilling our
contracts; and friends by gratitude and kindness; for we
know not how soon we may again have occasion for all of
them. With great and sincere esteem, I have the honour to
be, &c. B. FRANKLIN.

1503. TO THOMAS MIFFLIN (L. c.)

Passy, May 12, 1784.

SIR,

In my last I acquainted your Excellency, that Mr. Hartley
was soon expected here to exchange Ratifications of the defini-
tive Treaty. He is now arriv'd, and proposes to make the
Exchange this Afternoon. I shall then be enabled to send a
Copy. Enclosed is the new British Proclamation respecting
our Trade with their Colonies. It is said to be only a tem-
porary Provision, till Parliament can assemble and make some
proper regulating Law, or till a commercial Treaty shall be
framed and agreed to. Mr. Hartley expects Instructions

1784] TO HENRY LAURENS 211

for planning with us such a Treaty. The Ministry are sup-
pos'd to have been too busy with the new Elections, when he
left London, to think of those Matters.

This Court has not compleated its intended new System
for the Trade of their Colonies, so that I cannot yet give a
certain Account of the Advantages, that will in fine be allow'd
us. At present it is said we are to have two Free Ports, To-
bago and the Mole, and that we may carry Lumber and all
sorts of Provisions to the rest, except Flour, which is reserv'd
in favour of Bordeaux, and that we shall be permitted to ex-
port Coffee, Rum, Mollasses, and some Sugar, for our own
Consumption.

We have had under Consideration a commercial Treaty
propos'd to us by the King of Prussia, and have sent it back
with our Remarks to Mr. Adams, who will, I suppose, trans-
mit it immediately to Congress. Those plann'd with Den-
mark and Portugal wait its Determination.

Be pleased to present my dutiful Respects to the Congress,
and believe me to be, with sincere and great Esteem, Sir, &c.

B. FRANKLIN.

1504. TO HENRY LAURENS (L. c.)

Passy, May 13, 1784.

DEAR SIR,

I am sorry for the numerous Disappointments you have
lately met with. The World, it's true, is full of Disappoint-
ments, but they are not equally divided, and you have had
more than your Share.

The Ratifications of the definitive Treaty are now ex-
chang'd; but Mr. Hartley waits for Instructions respecting

212 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1784

a Treaty of Commerce, which, from what you observe, may
probably never arrive. I shall, however, be glad to receive
what you are so good as to promise me, your Thoughts on the
Subject of such a Treaty.

You have been so kind as to offer me your friendly services
in America. You will oblige me greatly in forwarding my
Dismission from this employment, for I long much to be at
home; and if you should think my Grandson qualified to
serve the States as Secretary to my Successor, or Charge
d' Affaires, till a Successor arrives, I shall thank you for recom-
mending him. His Knowledge of this Court, and acquaint-
ance with the Language, and the Esteem the Minister has
for him, are Circumstances in his favor ; his long Experience
in the Business here is another, he having served an Appren-
ticeship to it for more than seven Years. His Intelligence,
Discretion, and Address, you can judge better of than myself,
who may be partial. His Fidelity and Exactitude in perform-
ing his Duty, I can answer for.

My best Wishes attend you, your very valuable Son, and
amiable Daughter. God bless you all, and give you a good
Voyage, and a happy Meeting with your Friends, with long
Life, Health, and Prosperity, is the sincere Prayer of your
affectionate humble Servant, -g pRANKLIN

1505. TO CHARLES THOMSON1

DEAR SIR, Pass^ Ma^ I3' I784'

Yesterday evening Mr. Hartley met with Mr. Jay and myself
when the ratifications of the Definitive Treaty were exchanged.
I send a copy of the English Ratification to the President.

1 From the original in the New York Historical Society. — ED.

1784] TO CHARLES THOMSON 213

Thus the great and hazardous enterprize we have been
engaged in is, God be praised, happily compleated ; an event
I hardly expected I should live to see. A few years of Peace,
will improve, will restore and encrease our strength ; but our
future safety will depend on our union and our virtue. Brit-
ain will be long watching for advantages, to recover what she
has lost. If we do not convince the world, that we are a
Nation to be depended on for fidelity in Treaties ; if we appear
negligent in paying our Debts, and ungrateful to those who
have served and befriended us; our reputation, and all the
strength it is capable of procuring, will be lost, and fresh
attacks upon us will be encouraged and promoted by better
prospects of success. Let us therefore beware of being lulled
into a dangerous security ; and of being both enervated and
impoverished by luxury ; of being weakened by internal con-
tentions and divisions; of being shamefully extravagant in
contracting private debts, while we are backward in dis-
charging honorably those of the public ; of neglect in military
exercises and discipline, and in providing stores of arms and
munitions of war, to be ready on occasion ; for all these are
circumstances that give confidence to enemies, and diffidence
to friends; and the expenses required to prevent a war are
much lighter than those that will, if not prevented, be abso-
lutely necessary to maintain it.

I am long kept in suspense without being able to learn the
purpose of Congress respecting my request of recall, and that
of some employment for my secretary, William Temple
Franklin. If I am kept here another winter, and as much
weakened by it as by the last, I may as well resolve to spend
the remainder of my days here; for I shall be hardly able
to bear the fatigues of the voyage in returning. During my

214 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1784

long absence from America, my friends are continually
diminishing by death, and my inducements to return in pro-
portion. But I can make no preparations either for going
conveniently, or staying comfortably here, nor take any steps
towards making some other provision for my grandson, till I
know what I am to expect. Be so good, my dear friend, as to
send me a little private information. With great esteem, I

am ever yours, most affectionately

B. FRANKLIN.

1506. TO MR. AND MRS. JAY (L. c.)

Passy, May 13, 1784.
MY DEAR FRIENDS,

I find I shall not be able to see you again as I intended.
My best Wishes, however, go with you, that you may have
a prosperous Voyage and a happy sight of your Friends and
Families.

Mr. Jay was so kind as to offer his Friendly Services to me
in America. He will oblige me much by endeavouring to
forward my Discharge from this Employment. Repose is
now my only Ambition. If too, he should think with me,
that my Grandson is qualified to serve the States as Secretary
to a future Minister at this Court, or as Chargi d' Affaires,
and will be kind enough to recommend such an Appointment,
it will exceedingly oblige me. I have twice mentioned this
in my letter to Congress, but have not been favored with any
answer; which is hard, because the suspense prevents my
endeavouring to promote him in some other way. I would
not, however, be importunate; and therefore, if Mr. Jay
should use his Interest without Effect, I will trouble them no

1784] METEOROLOGICAL CONJECTURES 215

more on the subject. My Grandson's acquaintance with
the Language, with the Court and Customs here, and the
particular Regard M. de Vergennes has for him, are Cir-
cumstances in his favour.

God bless and protect you both. Embrace my little
Friend for me, and believe me ever yours, &c.

B. FRANKLIN.

1507. TO COMTE DE VERGENNES (p. A. E. E. u.)

Passy, May 31. 1784.

SOME inconveniences are said to have arisen from a want
of certainty in the power of our consuls. The articles re-
specting that matter have been some time prepared and agreed
to between M. de Rayneval and me. If there is no change
of sentiment respecting them, I beg leave to request your
Excellency would direct such steps to be taken as may be
proper for compelling them. I am ready on the part of the
United States to sign them at any time. With great respect,
I am sir, etc., B. FRANKLIN.

1508. METEOROLOGICAL IMAGINATIONS AND
CONJECTURES1 (L. c.)

Passy, May, 1784.

THERE seems to be a Region high in the Air over all Coun-
tries, where it is always Winter, where Frost exists continu-

1 First printed in the " Memoirs of the Literary and Philosophical Society
of Manchester," Vol. II, p. 357. It was communicated to the Society by Dr.
Percival, and read December 22, 1784. — ED.

216 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1784

ally, since in the midst of Summer, on the Surface of the Earth,
Ice falls often from above, in the Form of Hail.

Hailstones, of the great Weight we sometimes find them,
did not pfobably acquire their Magnitude before they began
to descend. The Air, being 800 times rarer than Water, is
unable to support it but in the Shape of Vapour, a State in
which its Particles are separated. As soon as they are con-
densed by the Cold of the upper Regions, so as to form a
Drop, that Drop begins to fall. If it freezes into a Grain of
Ice, that Ice descends. In descending, both the Drop of
Water and the Grain of Ice are augmented by Particles of the
Vapour they pass thro' in falling, and which they condense
by their Coldness, and attach to themselves.

It is possible that, in Summer, much of what is Rain when
it arrives at the Surface of the Earth, might have been Snow
when it began its Descent ; but, being thaw'd in passing thro*
the warm Air near the Surface, it is changed from Snow into
Rain.

How immensely cold must be the original Particle of Hail,
which forms the Centre of the future Hailstone, since it is
capable of communicating sufficient Cold, if I may so speak,
because perhaps it is not by communicating Cold to the Par-
ticles of Vapour that it freezes them but by depriving them of
their Heat, to freeze all the Mass of Vapour condensed round
it, and form a Lump of perhaps 6 or 8 ounces in weight 1

When, in Summer time, the Sun is high, and long every
Day above the Horizon, his Rays strike the Earth more di-
rectly, and with longer Continuance, than in Winter; hence
the Surface is more heated, and to a greater Depth, by the
Effect of those Rays.

When Rain falls on the heated Earth, and soaks down into

1784] METEOROLOGICAL CONJECTURES 217

it, it carries down with it a great part of the Heat, which by
that means descends still deeper.

The Mass of Earth, to the depth perhaps of 30 Feet, being
thus heated to a certain Degree, continues to retain its Heat
for some time. Thus the first Snows, that fall in the Begin-
ning of Winter, seldom lie long on the Surface, but are soon
melted, and soon absorbed. After which, the Winds, that
blow over the Country on which the Snows had fallen, are not
rend'red so cold as they would have been, by those Snows,
if they had remained. The Earth, too, thus uncovered by the
Snows, which would have reflected the Sun's Rays, now
absorbs them, receiving and retaining the Warmth they afford
and thus the Approach of the Severity of Winter is retarded ;
and the extreme degree of its Cold is not always at the time
we might expect it, viz. when the Sun is at its greatest Distance,
and the Days shortest, but some time after that Period, accord-
ing to the English Proverb, which says, " As the Day length-
ens, the Cold strengthens;" the Causes of refrigeration con-
tinuing to operate, while the Sun returns too slowly, and his
Force continues too weak, to counteract them.

During several of the Summer Months of the Year 1783,
when the Effect of the Sun's Rays to heat the Earth in these
northern Regions should have been greatest, there existed
a constant Fog over all Europe. This Fog was of a permanent
Nature ; it was dry, and the Rays of the Sun seem'd to have
little Effect towards dissipating it, as they easily do a moist
Fog, arising from Water. They were indeed rend'red so faint
in passing thro' it, that, when collected in the Focus of a
Burning- Glass, they would scarce kindle brown Paper. Of
course, their Summer Effect in heating the Earth was exceed-
ingly diminished.

218 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1784

Hence the Surface was early frozen.

Hence the first Snows remained on it unmelted, and re-
ceived continual Additions.

Hence the Air was more chilled and the Winds more se-
verely cold. Hence perhaps the Winter of 1783-4, was more
severe than any that had happened for many years.

The Cause of this Universal Fog is not yet ascertained.
Whether it was adventitious to this Earth, and merely a
Smoke proceeding from the Consumption by Fire of some of
those great burning Balls or Globes which we happen to
meet with in our rapid Course round the Sun, and which are
sometimes seen to kindle and be destroy'd in passing our
Atmosphere, and whose Smoke might be attracted and re-
tain'd by our Earth: or whether it was the vast Quantity
of Smoke, long continuing to issue during the Summer from
Hecla, in Iceland, and that other Volcano which arose out of
the Sea near that Island, which Smoke might be spread by
various Winds, over the northern Part of the World, is yet
uncertain.

It seems however worth the Enquiry, whether other hard
Winters, recorded in History, were preceded by similar per-
manent and widely extended Summer Fogs. Because, if
found to be so, Men might from such Fogs conjecture the
Probability of a succeeding hard Winter, and of the damages
to be expected by the breaking up of frozen Rivers at the Ap-
proach of Spring; and take such Measures as are possible
and practicable, to secure themselves and Effects from the
Mischiefs that attended the last.

1784] TO DAVID HARTLEY 219

1509. TO DAVID HARTLEY1 (P. c.)

Passy, June 2, 1784.

SIR,

I have considered the Observations you did me the honour
of communicating to me, concerning certain Inaccuracies
of Expression, and suppos'd Defects of Formality in the In-
strument of Ratification, some of which are said to be of
such a Nature as to affect " the Validity of the Instrument."

The first is, "that the United States are named before his
Majesty, contrary to the established Custom observed in every
Treaty in which a Crowned Head and a Republic are the con-
tracting Parties." With respect to this, it seems to me we
should distinguish between that Act in which both join, to
wit, the Treaty, and that which is the Act of each separately,
the Ratification. It is necessary that all the Modes of Ex-
pression in the joint Act should be agreed to by both Parties,
tho' in their separate Acts each Party is Master of, and alone
accountable for its own mode. And on inspecting the Treaty,
it will be found that his Majesty is always regularly named
before the United States. Thus "the established Custom
in Treaties between Crowned Heads and Republics," con-
tended for on your Part, is strictly observed : And the ratifica-
tion following the treaty contains these Words. "Now
know ye, that we, the United States in Congress assembled,
having seen and considered the Definitive Articles aforesaid,
have approved, ratified, and confirmed, and by these Presents
do approve, ratify, and confirm the said Articles, AND EVERY

1 From a secretary's copy in the collection of Mrs. L. Z. Leiter. The date
in this copy appears to have been altered from June 2 to June 8. — ED.

220 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1784

PART AND CLAUSE THEREOF," &c. Hereby all those Articles,
Parts, and Clauses, wherein the King is named before the
United States, are approved, ratified, and confirmed, and this
solemnly, under the Signature of the President of Congress,
with the public Seal affixed by their Order, and counter-
signed by their Secretary.

No Declaration on this Subject more determinate or more
authentic can possibly be made or given, which, when con-
sidered, may probably induce his Majesty's Ministers to waive
the Proposition of our signing a similar Declaration, or of
sending back the Ratification to be corrected in this Point,
neither appearing to be really necessary. I will, however,
if it be still desired, transmit to Congress the Observation,
and the Difficulty occasioned by it, and request their Orders
upon it. In the mean time I may venture to say, that I am
confident there was no intention of affronting his Majesty
by this Order of Nomination, but that it resulted merely from
that Sort of Complaisance, which every Nation seems to have
for itself, and of that Respect for its own Government, cus-
tomarily so expressed in its own Acts, of which the English
among the rest afford an Instance, when in the Title of the
King they always name Great Britain before France.

The second Objection is, " that the Term Definitive Articles
is used instead of Definitive Treaty" If the words Defini-
tive Treaty had been used in the Ratification instead of
Definitive Articles, it might have been more correct, tho' the
Difference seems not great, nor of much Importance, as in the
Treaty itself it is called "the present Definitive Treaty."

The other Objections are, "that the Conclusion likewise
appears deficient, as it is neither signed by the President, nor
is it dated, and consequently is wanting in some of the most

1784] TO CONDE DE CAMPOMANES 221

essential Points of Form necessary towards authenticating the
Validity of the Instrument." The Situation of Seals and Sig-
natures, in public Instruments differs in different Countries,
tho' all equally valid ; for, when all the Parts of an Instrument
are connected by a Ribband, whose Ends are secured under
the Impression of the Seal, the Signature and Seal, wherever
plac'd, are understood as relating to and authenticating the
whole. Our usage is to place them both together in the broad
Margin near the Beginning of the Piece ; and so they stand in
the present Ratification, the concluding Words of which de-
clare the Intention of such Signing and Sealing to be giving
authenticity to the whole Instrument, viz. "In Testimony
whereof, We have caused the Seal of the United States to be
hereunto affixed; Witness his Excellency Thomas Mifflin,
Esqr, President;" and the Date supposed to be omitted,
(perhaps from its not appearing in Figures) is nevertheless
to be found written in Words at length, viz. " this fourteenth
Day of January, in the year of our Lord one thousand seven
hundred and eighty-four," which made the Figures unneces-
sary. With great Esteem and Respect, I have the honour to

be, &c.

B. FRANKLIN.

1510. TO CONDE DE CAMPOMANES (A. p. s.)

Passy, June 5, 1784.

SIR,

I have received much Instruction and Pleasure in reading
your excellent Writings. I wish it were in my Power to
make you a suitable Return of the same kind. I embrace the
Opportunity, my much esteemed Friend Mr. Carmichael

222 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1784

affords me, of sending you a late Collection of some of my
occasional Pieces, of which, if I should live to get home, I
hope to publish another Edition much larger, more correct,
and less unworthy of your Acceptance.

You are engaged in a great Work, reforming the ancient
Habitudes, removing the Prejudices, and promoting the In-
dustry of your Nation. You have in the Spanish People good
Stuff to work upon, and by a steady Perseverance you will
obtain perhaps a Success beyond your Expectation ; for it is
incredible the quantity of Good that may be done in a Coun-
try by a single Man, who will make a Business of it, and not
suffer himself to be diverted from that Purpose by different
Avocations, Studies, or Amusements.

There are two Opinions prevalent in Europe, which have
mischievous Effects in diminishing national Felicity ; the one,
That useful Labour is dishonourable ; the other, that Fami-
lies may be perpetuated with Estates. In America we have
neither of these Prejudices, which is a great Advantage to us.
You will see our Ideas respecting the first, in a little Piece I
send you, called Information to those who would remove to
America. The second is mathematically demonstrable to be
an Impossibility under the present Rules of Law and Religion.
Since tho' the Estate may remain entire, the Family is con-
tinually dividing. For a man's Son is but half of his Family,
his Grandson but a Fourth, his Great Grandson but an Eighth,
the next but a Sixteenth of his Family ; and, by the same Pro-
gression, in only nine Generations the present Proprietor's
Part hi the then Possessor of the Estate will be but a 51 2th,
supposing the Fidelity of all the succeeding Wives equally
certain with that of those now existing : Too small a Portion,
methinks, to be anxious about, so as to oppose a legal Liberty

1784] TO CONDE DE CAMPOMANES 223

of breaking Entails and dividing Estates, which would con-
tribute so much to the Prosperity of the Country. With
great and sincere Esteem and Respect, and best Wishes for
the Success of your patriotic Undertaking, I have the honour
to be, Sir, &c. B. FRANKLIN/

1To this letter Campomanes replied, July 26, 1784 (A. P. S.) : —

"I have received, by the hands of my friend Mr. Carmichael, your estimable
letter of the 5th of June, the collection of your miscellaneous writings, and the
piece entitled, Information to those who would remove to America, All these
writings exhibit proofs of their having proceeded from a statesman, endowed
with foresight, and vigilant for the best interests of his country, according to
the political combinations and systems of government under which they were
composed ; and they manifest, at the same time, an ardent desire for the gen-
eral happiness of mankind, founded on principles and calculations carried to
as high a degree of demonstration, as the vicissitude and inconsistency of
the various systems adopted for the government of men will admit. . . .

" The frankness, with which you dissuade people in Europe from emigrating
inconsiderately to America, is a proof of your general philanthropy, and of a
candor peculiar to a good man, true philosopher, and genuine patriot. You
extend this same benevolence to Spain, in your remarks respecting the honour
that is due to labour, and against the entailment of estates. The former is
now confirmed among us by a recent law, a copy of which I send herewith, de-
claring the honourable light in which every description of artisans should be
regarded. Labourers were always honoured and favoured by our laws. As
to what regards entailments, I refer you to what I wrote in the year 1765, at
the end of my treatise upon Mortmain, in which I think I have demonstrated,
that another regulation ought to precede this in the progress of legislation. I
add also, that there is some diversity of circumstances between a monarchical
and democratical constitution in this respect.

" I should have great pleasure in extending these reflections, if time would
permit, although your penetration and sagacity would render them unnecessary.
The honour conferred upon me by The American Philosophical Society, in
electing me a member on the i6th of January, lays me under the pleasing
obligation of expressing my gratitude through you, the worthy President of
the Society. Desirous of reciprocating in some manner this act of courtesy, I
proposed you as an honourary member of the Royal Academy of History, of
which I am President. The proposal was responded to by universal acclama-
tion ; the Academy feeling in the highest degree honoured by having on its
list the name of a man so eminent in the world of letters, and so distinguished
for the part he has acted in a Revolution, the most memorable in the history
of modern times." — ED.

224 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1784
1511. TO CHARLES THOMSON1

Passy, June 14, 1784.

DEAR SIR

I received yours of April ipth,2 with the information you
obtained from our old neighbour, Reuben Haines, respecting
Marggrander,3 for which I thank you. I am much pestered
with applications to make such enquiries, and often obliged
to promise that I will transmit them ; but I would not wish you
to take more trouble, than to ask questions of the members
of Congress, or others that fall in your way, and communi-
cate to me their answers, if of any importance. I have also
a multitude of projects sent to me, with requests that I would
lay them before Congress. They are plans and schemes of
Government and Legislation, Education, Defence, Manu-
factures, Commerce, &c., form'd by people who have great
good will to us, but are totally ignorant of our affairs and
circumstances; whence their projects are for the most part
wild and impracticable, or unfit to be presented to Congress,
as not pertaining to their jurisdiction. I have therefore
not forwarded them; but will now and then send some of
them for your amusement, if you should ever have any leisure,
that you may see how people make shoes for feet they have
never measured.

As your letter mentions nothing of publick affairs, I
imagined I might have had, by the same conveyance, some

1 From the original in New York Historical Society. — ED.

2 In A. P. S. — ED.

8 Adam Marggrander was employed by Reuben Haines as a brewer and
cooper. He enlisted as a substitute in the militia and marched into Northum-
berland County. Nothing further was known of him. — ED.

1784] TO THOMAS MIFFLIN 225

dispatches from Congress, perhaps in the care of some pas-
senger ; but a fortnight has past since the arrival of the packet-
boat, and no Letters appear; so that I have nothing from
Congress later than the 14 of January, and continue in great
uncertainty as to my return.

Mr. Norris l came here, after residing some time at Liege.
He staid but a week or two at Paris, and then removed to
a country town not far distant, where nothing but French is
spoken, in order to improve himself in that language. He
seems a sensible, discreet young man, and I should with pleas-
ure render him any service that may be in my power.

The King of Sweden is now at this court, enjoying the
various splendid entertainments provided for him. The
Danish Minister is astonished, that the Congress are so long
without taking any notice of the proposed Treaty. With
great esteem, I am ever, my Dear Friend, yours most

affectionately,

B. FRANKLIN.

1512. TO THOMAS MIFFLIN (L. c.)

Passy, June 16, 1784.

SIR,

My Letter by Mr. Jay acquainted your Excellency, that the
Ratifications of the Definitive Treaty were exchanged. A
Copy of the British part was also sent by him.

Mr. Hartley remained here expecting Instructions to treat
with us on the Subject of Commerce. The Bustle attending
a new Election and Meeting of Parliament, he imagined
might occasion the long Delay of those Instructions. He

1 Son of Isaac Norris, Speaker of the Pennsylvania Assembly. — ED.
VOL. IX — Q

226 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN ^784

now thinks, that, the Affair of American Trade being under
the Consideration of Parliament, it is probable no Treaty
will be propos'd till the Result is known. Mr. Jay, who
saiFd for America the ist Inst. from Dover, and who saw there
several of our Friends from London before his Departure,
and Mr. Laurens who left London the 6th to go in the Fal-
mouth Packet, will be able to give you more perfect Informa-
tions than I can, of what may be expected as the Deter-
mination of the British government respecting our Intercourse
with their Islands; and, therefore, I omit my Conjectures,
only mentioning, that from various Circumstances there seems
to be some lurking Remains of ill Humour there, and of Re-
sentment against us, which only wants a favourable Oppor-
tunity to manifest itself.

This makes it more necessary for us to be upon our guard
and prepared for Events, that a Change in the Affairs of
Europe may produce; its Tranquility depending, perhaps,
on the Life of one Man, and it being impossible to foresee in
what Situation a new Arrangement of its various Interests
may place us. Ours will be respected in proportion to the
apparent Solidity of our Government, the Support of our
Credit, the Maintenance of a good Understanding with our
Friends, and our Readiness for Defence. All which I per-
suade myself will be taken care of.

Inclose I send a Copy of a Letter from Mr. Hartley to me,
respecting some suppos'd Defects in the Ratification, together
with my Answer, which he has transmitted to London. The
Objections appeared to me trivial and absurd ; but I thought
it prudent to treat them with as much Decency as I could,
lest the ill Temper should be augmented, which might be
particularly inconvenient, while the Commerce was under

1784] THOUGHTS ON A UNIVERSAL FLUID 2*27

Consideration. There has not yet been time for Mr. Hartley
to hear whether my Answer has been satisfactory, or whether
the Ministers will still insist on my sending for an amended
Copy from America, as they proposed.

I do not perceive the least Diminution in the good Disposi-
tion of this Court towards us, and I hope care will be taken
to preserve it.

The Marquis de la Fayette, who will have the honour of
delivering this to you, has, ever since his Arrival in Europe,
been very industrious in his Endeavours to serve us, and pro-
mote our Interests, and has been of great Use on several
Occasions. I should wish the Congress might think fit to-
express in some proper Manner their Sense of his Merit.

My Malady prevents my going to Versailles, as I cannot
bear a Carriage upon Pavement; but my Grandson goes
regularly on Court days to supply my Place, and is well re-
ceiv'd there. The last Letters I have had the honour of receiv-
ing from you, are of the i4th of January. With great Respect,

I am, Sir, &c.

B. FRANKLIN.

1513. LOOSE THOUGHTS ON A UNIVERSAL
FLUID l (L. c.)

Passy, June 25, 1784.

UNIVERSAL SPACE, as far as we know of it, seems to be
filled with a subtil Fluid, whose Motion, or Vibration, is
called Light.

1 From an auto, draft in L. C. endorsed by Franklin, " For the Consideration
of my dear Friend, David Rittenhouse, Esq' " There is also in L. C. a contem-
porary copy in French. The paper was read before The American Philo-
sophical Society, June 20, 1788. — ED.

228 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1784

This Fluid may possibly be the same with that, which,
being attracted by, and entring into other more solid Mat-
ter, dilates the Substance, by separating the constituent Par-
ticles, and so rendering some Solids fluid, and maintaining
the Fluidity of others; of which Fluid when our Bodies are
totally deprived, they are said to be frozen ; when they have
a proper Quantity, they are in Health, and fit to perform all
their Functions; it is then called natural Heat; when too
much, it is called Fever; and, when forced into the Body in
too great a Quantity from without, it gives Pain by separating
and destroying the Flesh, and is then called Burning; and
the Fluid so entring and acting is called Fire.

While organized Bodies, animal or vegetable, are aug-
menting in Growth, or are supplying their continual Waste,
is not this done by attracting and consolidating this Fluid
called Fire, so as to form of it a Part of their Substance ; and
is it not a Separation of the Parts of such Substance, which,
dissolving its solid State, sets that subtil Fluid at Liberty,
when it again makes its appearance as Fire?

For the Power of Man relative to Matter seems limited
to the dividing it, or mixing the various kinds of it, or changing
its Form and Appearance by different Compositions of it;
but does not extend to the making or creating of new Matter,
or annihilating the old. Thus, if Fire be an original Element,
or kind of Matter, its Quantity is fixed and permanent in
the Universe. We cannot destroy any Part of it, or make
addition to it; we can only separate it from that which
confines it, and so set it at Liberty, as when we put Wood in a
Situation to be burnt ; or transfer it from one Solid to another,
as when we make Lime by burning Stone, a Part of the Fire
dislodg'd from the Wood being left in the Stone. May not

1784] THOUGHTS ON A UNIVERSAL FLUID 229

this Fluid, when at Liberty, be capable of penetrating and
entring into all Bodies organiz'd or not, quitting easily in
totality those not organiz'd ; and quitting easily in part those
which are ; the part assum'd and fix'd remaining till the Body
is dissolved?

Is it not this Fluid which keeps asunder the Particles of
Air, permitting them to approach, or separating them more,
in proportion as its Quantity is diminish'd or augmented?
Is it not the greater Gravity of the Particles of Air, which
forces the Particles of this Fluid to mount with the Matters
to which it is attached, as Smoke or Vapour?

Does it not seem to have a great Affinity with Water, since
it will quit a Solid to unite with that Fluid, and go off with it
in Vapour, leaving the Solid cold to the Touch, and the Degree
measurable by the Thermometer?

The Vapour rises attach'd to this Fluid, but at a certain
height they separate, and the Vapour descends in Rain,
retaining but little of it, in Snow or Hail less. What be-
comes of that Fluid? Does it rise above our Atmosphere,
and mix with the universal Mass of the same kind? Or
does a spherical Stratum of it, denser, or less mix'd with
Air, attracted by this Globe, and repelPd or push'd up only
to a certain height from its Surface, by the greater Weight
of Air, remain there, surrounding the Globe, and proceeding
with it round the Sun ?

In such case, as there may be a Continuity or Communi-
cation of this Fluid thro' the Air quite down to the Earth,
is it not by the Vibrations given to it by the Sun that Light
appears to us; and may it not be, that every one of the in-
finitely small Vibrations, striking common Matter with a
certain Force, enters its Substance, is held there by Attraction,

^30 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1784

and augmented by succeeding Vibrations, till the Matter has
receiv'd as much as their Force can drive into it?

Is it not thus, that the Surface of this Globe is continu-
ally heated by such repeated Vibrations in the Day, and cooled
by the Escape of the Heat, when those Vibrations are discon-
tinu'd in the Night, or intercepted and reflected by Clouds?

Is it not thus that Fire is amass'd, and makes the greatest
Part of the Substance of combustible Bodies?

Perhaps, when this Globe was first form'd, and its original
Particles took their Place at certain Distances from the
Centre, in proportion to their greater or less Gravity, the
fluid Fire, attracted towards that Centre, might in great
part be oblig'd, as lightest, to take place above the rest, and
thus form the Sphere of Fire above supposed, which would
afterwards be continually diminishing by the Substance it
afforded to organiz'd Bodies, and the Quantity restor'd to it
again by the Burning or other Separating of the Parts of those
Bodies.

Is not the natural Heat of Animals thus produc'd, by
separating in Digestion the Parts of Food, and setting their
Fire at Liberty?

Is it not this Sphere of Fire, which kindles the wandring
Globes that sometimes pass thro' it in our Course round the
Sun, have their Surface kindled by it, and burst when their
included Air is greatly ratified by the Heat on their burning
Surfaces? May it not have been from such Considerations
that the ancient Philosophers supposed a Sphere of Fire to
exist above the Air of our Atmosphere ?

1784] PAPER MONEY OF THE UNITED STATES 231

1514. OF THE PAPER MONEY OF THE UNITED
STATES OF AMERICA1 (L. c.)

MUCH Conversation having arisen lately on the Subject
of this Money, and few Persons being well acquainted with
the Nature of it, you may possibly oblige many of your
Readers by the following Account of it.

When Great Britain commenced the present War upon
the Colonies, they had neither Arms nor Ammunition, nor
Money to purchase them or to pay Soldiers. The new Gov-
ernment had not immediately the Consistence necessary for
collecting heavy Taxes ; nor would Taxes that could be raised
within the Year during Peace, have been sufficient for a Year's
Expence in Time of War ; they therefore printed a Quantity
of Paper Bills, each expressing to be of the Value of a certain
Number of Spanish Dollars, from One to Thirty ; with these
they paid, clothed, and fed their Troops, fitted out Ships, and
supported the War during Five Years against one of the most
powerful Nations of Europe.

The Paper thus issued, passed current in all the internal
Commerce of the United States at par with Silver during the
first Year; supplying the Place of the Gold and Silver for-
merly current, but which was sent out of the Country to pur-
chase Arms, &c., or to defray Expences of the Army in Can-
ada : But the great Number of Troops necessary to be kept
on foot to defend a Coast of near 500 Leagues in Length,
from an Enemy, who, being Masters at Sea, could land

1 The date of composition guessingly set down by Bigelow and by Fitz-
patrick (List of the B. F. Papers in the L. C.) is July 3, 1784. — ED.

232 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1784

Troops where they pleas'd, occasion'd such a Demand for
Money, and such frequent additional Emissions of new Bills,
that the Quantity became much greater than was wanted
for the Purposes of Commerce; and, the Commerce being
diminished by the War, the Surplus Quantity of Cash was
by that means also proportionally augmented.

It has been long and often observed, that when the current
Money of a Country is augmented beyond the Occasions for
Money, as a Medium of Commerce, its Value as Money dimin-
ishes. Its Interest is reduced, and the Principal sinks, if
some Means are not found to take off the Surplus Quantity.
Silver may be carried out of the Country that produces it,
into other Countries, and thereby prevent too great a Fall of
its Value in that Country. But, when by this Means it grows
more plentiful in all other Countries, nothing prevents its
sinking in Value. Thus within 300 Years since the Discovery
of America, and the vast Quantities of Gold and Silver im-
ported from thence, and spread over Europe and the rest of
the World, those Metals have sunk in value 4 fifths, that is,
five Ounces of Silver will not purchase more Labour now than
one Ounce would have done before that Discovery.

Had Spain been able to confine all that Treasure within
its own Territories, silver would probably have been there
of no more Value by this Time than Iron or Lead. The Ex-
portation has kept its Value on a Level with its Value in
other Parts of the World. Paper Money not being easily
receiv'd out of the Country that makes it, if the Quantity
becomes excessive, the Depreciation is quicker and greater.

Thus the excessive Quantities which Necessity oblig'd the
Americans to issue for continuing the War, occasion'd a
Depreciation of Value, which, commencing towards the End

1784] PAPER MONEY OF THE UNITED STATES 233

of 1776, has gone on augmenting, till at the beginning of the
present Year, 50, 60, and as far as 70 Dollars in Paper were
reckoned not more than equal to one Dollar in Silver, and the
Prices of all things rose in Proportion.

Before the Depreciation commenc'd, the Congress, fearing
it, stopt for a time the Emission of new Bills, and resolv'd to
supply their Occasions by borrowing. Those who lent
them the Paper Money at that time and until March, 1778,
fix'd their Property and prevented its Depreciation; the in-
terest being regularly paid by Bills of Exchange on France,
which supports the Value of the principal Sums lent.

These Loans not being sufficient, the Congress were forced
to print more Bills, and the Depreciation proceeded. The
Congress would borrow no more on the former Conditions
of paying the Interest in French Money at Paris ; but great
Sums were offered and lent them on the Terms of being paid
the Interest, and repaid the Principal hi the same Bills in
America.

These Loans in some degree lessen 'd, but did not quite take
away, the Necessity of new Emissions; so that it at length
arrived at the excessive difference between the Value of
Paper and Silver, that is above mentioned.

To put an End to this Evil, which destroy'd all certainty
in Commerce, the Congress first resolved to diminish the
Quantity gradually by Taxes, which, tho' nominally vastly
great, were really less heavy than they appear'd to be, and
were readily paid. By these Taxes 15 Millions of dollars,
of the 200 Millions extant, are to be brought hi monthly and
burnt. This Operation will destroy the whole Quantity, to
wit, 200,000,000, in about 14 Months. Thirty Millions have
already been so destroy'd.

234 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1784

To prevent in the mean time the farther Progress of the
Depreciation, and give some kind of determinate Value to
the Paper, it was ordain'd, that, for every sum of Forty
Dollars payable by any Person as Tax, he might discharge
himself by paying One Dollar in Silver. Whether this Ex-
pedient will produce the Effect intended or not, Experience
and Time must discover.

The general Effect of the Depreciation among the Inhab-
itants of the States has been this, that it has operated as a
gradual Tax upon them. Their Business has been done
and paid for by the Paper Money ; and every Man has paid
his Share of the Tax according to the Time he retain'd any
of the Money in his Hands, and to the Depreciation within
that Time. Thus it has proved a Tax on Money, a kind of
Property very difficult to be taxed in any other Mode; and
it has fallen more equally than many other Taxes, as those
People paid most, who, being richest, had most Money passing
thro' their Hands.

With regard to the Paper Money or Bills borrowed by the
Congress, it appears by the above Account to be under two
different Descriptions.

First, the Quantity of Bills borrowed before the Deprecia-
tion, the Interest of which in Silver was to be and is paid in
France. The Principal of this Sum is considered as equal
in Value to so many Dollars of Silver as were borrowed in
Paper, and will be paid in Silver accordingly.

Secondly, the Quantities of Bills borrowed in different
Stages of the Depreciation down to the present time. These
Sums are, by a Resolution of Congress, to be repaid in Silver
according to the Value they were of in Silver at the Time they
were lent ; and the Interest is to be paid at the same Rate.

1784] PAPER MONEY OF THE UNITED STATES 235

Thus those Lenders have their Property secured from the
Loss by Depreciation subsequent to the Time of their Loan.

All the Inhabitants are satisfied and pleas'd with this
Arrangement, their Public Debt being by this Means reduced
to a small Sum. And the new Paper Money, which bears
Interest, and for the Payment of which solid Funds are pro-
vided, is actually in Credit equal to real Silver.

If any Persons living in distant Countries have, thro* their
Absence from their Property in America, suffered Loss by
not having it timely fix'd in the several Loans above men-
tioned, it is not doubted but that, upon an Application to
Congress stating the Case, they will meet with Redress.

The real Money us'd in the United States is French, Span-
ish, Portuguese, and English coins, Gold and Silver. The
most common is Spanish milFd dollars, worth 5 livres 5 sols
tournois.

The nominal Money is generally Paper, reckoned in
Pounds, Shillings, and Pence, of different Value in the differ-
ent States when compar'd with real Money, and that Value
often changing, so that nothing certain can be said of it. But
everywhere the accounts are kept in the nominal Pounds,
Shillings, and Pence, the Pound containing twenty Shillings,
and the Shillings twelve Pence, whatever may be the real
Value.

Bills of Exchange are frequently drawn on Europe; the
Rate of Exchange differing in different States, and fluctu-
ating in the same State, occasioned by the greater or less
Plenty of Bills or of Demand for others ; they are commonly
drawn at 30 Days' Sight.

The Usages in Buying and Selling Merchandises, are much
the same as in Europe, except that in Virginia the Planter

236 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1784

carries his Tobacco to Magazines, where it is inspected by
Officers, who ascertain its Quality and give Receipts express-
ing the Quantity. The Merchants receive these Receipts
in Payment for Goods, and afterwards draw the Tobacco
out of the Magazines for Exportation. Weights and Meas-
ures are uniform in all the States, following the Standard of
Great Britain.

Money is lent either upon Bond or on Mortgage, payable
hi a Year with Interest. The Interest differs in the different
States from 5 to 7 per cent.

Goods are generally imported on 18 Months' Credit from
Europe, sold in the Country at 12 Months' credit.

Billets or Promissory Notes, payable to the Creditor or
Order, are in use, and demandable when due, as well as
accepted Bills of Exchange, without any Days of Grace, but
by particular Favour.

1515. TO THOMAS PERCIVAL (L. c.)

DEAR SIR, Passy, July 17^784.

I received yesterday, by Mr. White, your kind Letter of
May nth, with the most agreable Present of your new Book.1
I read it before I slept, which is a Proof of the good Effects
your happy Manner has of drawing your Reader on, by
mixing little Anecdotes and historical Facts with your In-
structions. Be pleased to accept my thankful Acknowledg-
ments for the Pleasure it has afforded me.

1 This letter is in A. P. S. " The present " was a copy of PercivaPs " Moral
and Literary Dissertations." Mr. White was a young gentleman of Manches-
ter, a member of the society mentioned below. — ED.

1784] TO THOMAS PERCIVAL 237

It is astonishing that the murderous Practice of Duelling,
which you so justly condemn, should continue so long in
vogue. Formerly, when Duels were used to determine
Lawsuits, from an Opinion that Providence would in every
Instance favour Truth and Right with Victory, they were
excusable. At present, they decide nothing. A Man says
something, which another tells him is a Lie. They fight;
but, whichever is killed, the Point in dispute remains unsettled.
To this purpose they have a pleasant little Story here. A
Gentleman hi a Coffee-house desired another to sit farther
from him. " Why so ?" " Because, Sir, you stink." " That
is an Affront, and you must fight me." "I will fight you, if
you insist upon it; but I do not see how that will mend the
Matter. For if you kill me, I shall stink too; and if I kill
you, [you] will stink, if possible, worse than you do at present."
How can such miserable Sinners as we are entertain so much
Pride, as to conceit that every Offence against our imagined
Honour merits Death ? These petty Princes in their own
Opinion would call that Sovereign a Tyrant, who should put
one of them to death for a little uncivil Language, tho' pointed
at his sacred Person; yet every one of them makes himself
Judge in his own Cause, condemns the offender without a
Jury, and undertakes himself to be the Executioner. With
sincere and great Esteem, I have the honor to be, Sir, &c.

B. FRANKLIN.

P. S. Our Friend, Mr. Vaughan, may perhaps communi-
cate to you some Conjectures of mine relating to the Cold
of last winter, which I sent to him in return for the Obser-
vations on Cold of Professor Wilson.1 If he should, and you

1 Professor Patrick Wilson of Glasgow. — ED.

238 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1784

think them worthy so much notice, you may show them to
your Philosophical Society,1 to which I wish all imaginable
success. Their Rules appear to me excellent.

1516. TO MASON WEEMS AND EDWARD GANT2

(L. C.)
Passy, July 18, 1784.

GENTLEMEN,

On receipt of your Letter,3 acquainting me that the Arch-
bishop [of Canterbury] would not permit you to be ordain'd,
unless you took the Oath of Allegiance, I apply'd to a Clergy-
man of my Acquaintance for Information on the Subject of
your obtaining Ordination here. His Opinion was, that it
could not be done ; and that, if it were done, you would be
required to vow Obedience to the Archbishop of Paris. I
next inquired of the Pope's Nuncio, whether you might not
be ordain'd by their Bishop in America, Powers being sent him
for that purpose, if he has them not already. The answer
was, " The Thing is impossible, unless the Gentlemen become
Catholics."

This is an Affair of which I know very little, and there-
fore I may ask Questions and propose means that are im-

1 The Philosophical Society of Manchester, of which Dr. Percival was one
of the principal founders and ornaments. — W. T. F.

2 Mason Locke Weems (i76o?-i825) was born in Virginia. He is the
celebrated " Parson " Weems who resigned his clerical charge to become a
book agent for Mathew Carey. His fertile fancy and easy conscience created
the indestructible stories of the youth of Washington. He wrote also a " Life
of Benjamin Franklin" . Edward Gant (1746-1837), a native of
Maryland, practised medicine before applying for holy orders. He became
chaplain of the United States Senate. — ED.

3 Dated July 9, 1784, No. 170 Strand. In A. P. S. — ED.

1784] TO MASON WEEMS AND EDWARD CANT 239

proper or impracticable. But what is the necessity of your
being connected with the Church of England? Would it
not be as well, if you were of the Church of Ireland? The
Religion is the same, tho' there is a different set of Bishops
and Archbishops. Perhaps if you were to apply to the Bishop
of Deny, who is a man of liberal Sentiments, he might give
you Orders as of that Church. If both Britain and Ireland
refuse you, (and I am not sure that the Bishops of Denmark
or Sweden would ordain you, unless you become Lutherans,)
what is to be done? Next to becoming Presbyterians, the
Episcopalian clergy of America, in my humble Opinion, can-
not do better than to follow the Example of the first Clergy
of Scotland, soon after the Conversion of that Country to
Christianity, who when their King had built the Cathedral
of St. Andrew's, and requested the King of Northumberland
to lend his Bishops to ordain one for them, that their Clergy
might not as heretofore be obliged to go to Northumberland
for Orders, and their Request was refused ; they assembled
in the Cathedral; and, the Mitre, Crosier, and Robes of a
Bishop being laid upon the Altar, they, after earnest Prayers
for Direction in their Choice, elected one of their own Num-
ber; when the King said to him, "Arise, go to the Altar, and
receive your Office at the Hand of God" His brethren led
him to the Altar, robed him, put the Crozier in his Hand, and
the Mitre on his Head, and he became the first Bishop of
Scotland.

If the British Isles were sunk in the Sea (and the Surface
of this Globe has suffered greater Changes), you would prob-
ably take some such Method as this ; and, if they persist in
denying you Ordination, 'tis the same thing. An hundred
years hence, when People are more enlightened, it will be

240 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1784

wondered at, that Men in America, qualified by their Learn-
ing and Piety to pray for and instruct their Neighbors, should
not be permitted to do it till they had made a Voyage of six
thousand Miles out and home, to ask leave of a cross old
Gentleman at Canterbury; who seems, by your Account,
to have as little Regard for the Souls of the People of Mary-
land, as King William's Attorney- General, Seymour, had for
those of Virginia. The Reverend Commissary Blair, who
projected the College of that Province, and was in England
to solicit Benefactions and a Charter, relates, that the Queen,
in the King's Absence, having ordered Seymour to draw up
the Charter, which was to be given, with £2000 in Money,
he oppos'd the Grant; saying that the Nation was engag'd
in an expensive War, that the Money was wanted for better
purposes, and he did not see the least Occasion for a College
in Virginia. Blair represented to him, that its Intention was
to educate and qualify young Men to be Ministers of the Gos-
pel, much wanted there; and begged Mr. Attorney would
consider, that the People of Virginia had souls to be saved,
as well as the People of England. "Souls I" says he, "damn
your Souls. Make Tobacco!" I have the honour to be,
Gentlemen, &c.

B. FRANKLIN.

1517. TO BENJAMIN VAUGHAN (i.e.)

Passy, July 26*, 1784.
DEAR FRIEND,

I have received several Letters from you lately, dated
June 1 6, June 30, and July 13. I thank you for the Infor-
mation respecting the Proceedings of your West India Mer-

1784] TO BENJAMIN VAUGHAN 241

chants, or rather Planters. The Restraints what ever they
may be upon our Commerce with your Islands, will prejudice
their Inhabitants, I apprehend, more than us.

It is wonderful how preposterously the affairs of this world
are managed. Naturally one would imagine, that the inter-
est of a few individuals should give way to general interest ;
but individuals manage their affairs with so much more appli-
cation, industry, and address, than the public do theirs, that
general interest most commonly gives way to particular.
We assemble parliaments and councils, to have the benefit
of their collected wisdom; but we necessarily have, at the
same time, the inconvenience of their collected passions,
prejudices, and private interests. By the help of these, artful
men overpower their wisdom, and dupe its possessors ; and if
we may judge by the acts, arrets, and edicts, all the world
over, for regulating commerce, an assembly of great men is
the greatest fool upon earth.

I have received Cook's Voyages, which you put Mr. Os-
wald in the way of sending to me. By some Mistake the first
Volume was omitted, and instead of it a Duplicate sent of
the third. If there is a good Print of Cook, I should be glad
to have it, being personally acquainted with him. I thank
you for the Pamphlets by Mr. Estlin. Every thing you send
me gives me Pleasure; to receive your Account would give
me more than all.

I am told, that the little Pamphlet of Advice to such as would
remove to America, is reprinted in London, with my Name to
it, which I would rather had been omitted ; but wish to see
a Copy, when you have an Opportunity of sending it.

Mr. H. has long continued here in Expectation of Instruc-
tions for making a Treaty of Commerce, but they do not

VOL. IX — R

242 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1784

come, and I begin to suspect none are intended ; tho' perhaps
the Delay is only occasioned by the over great Burthen of
Business at present on the Shoulders of your Ministers. We
do not press the Matter, but are content to wait till they can
see their Interest respecting America more clearly, being cer-
tain that we can shift as well as you without a Treaty.

The Conjectures I sent you concerning the cold of last
Winter still appear to me probable. The moderate Season
in Russia and Canada, do not weaken them. I think our
Frost here began about the 24th of December; in America,
the 12 of January. I thank you for recommending to me Mr.
Arbuthnot ; I have had Pleasure in his Conversation. I wish
much to see the new Pieces you had in hand. I congratulate
you on the Return of your Wedding-day, and wish for your
Sake and Mrs. Vaughan's, that you may see a great many of
them, all as happy as the first.

I like the young stranger very much. He seems sensible,
ingenious, and modest, has a good deal of Instruction, and
makes judicious Observations. He will probably distin-
guish himself advantageously. I have not yet heard from
Mr. Nairne.

Dr. Price's Pamphlet of Advice to America is a good one,
and will do Good. You ask, "what Remedy I have for the
growing Luxury of my Country, which gives so much Offence
to all English travellers without exception." I answer, that
I think it exaggerated, and that Travellers are no good
Judges whether our Luxury is growing or diminishing. Our
People are hospitable, and have indeed too much Pride in
displaying upon their Tables before Strangers the Plenty and
Variety that our Country affords. They have the Vanity, too,
of sometimes borrowing one another's Plate to entertain more

1784] TO BENJAMIN VAUGHAN 243

splendidly. Strangers being invited from House to House,
and meeting every Day with a Feast, imagine what they see
is the ordinary Way of living of all the Families where they
dine ; when perhaps each Family lives a Week after upon the
Remains of the Dinner given. It is, I own, a Folly in our
People to give such Offence to English Travellers. The first
part of the Proverb is thereby verified, that Fools make Feasts.
I wish in this Case the other were as true, and wise Men eat
them. These Travellers might, one would think, find some
Fault they could more decently reproach us with, than that
of our excessive Civility to them as Strangers.

I have not, indeed yet thought of a Remedy for Luxury
I am not sure, that in a great State it is capable of a Remedy.
Nor that the Evil is in itself always so great as it is represented.
Suppose we include in the Definition of Luxury all unnecessary
Expence, and then let us consider whether Laws to prevent
such Expence are possible to be executed in a great Country,
and whether, if they could be executed, our People generally
would be happier, or even richer. Is not the Hope of one
day being able to purchase and enjoy Luxuries a great Spur
to Labour and Industry? May not Luxury, therefore, pro-
duce more than it consumes, if without such a Spur People
would be, as they are naturally enough inclined to be, lazy
and indolent ? To this purpose I remember a Circumstance.
The Skipper of a Shallop, employed between Cape May and
Philadelphia, had done us some small Service, for which he
refused Pay. My Wife, understanding that he had a Daugh-
ter, sent her as a Present a new-fashioned Cap. Three
Years After, this Skipper being at my House with an old
Farmer of Cape May, his Passenger, he mentioned the Cap,
and how much his Daughter had been pleased with it. " But,"

244 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1784

says he, " it proved a dear Cap to our Congregation." " How
so?" "When my Daughter appeared in it at Meeting, it
was so much admired, that all the Girls resolved to get such
Caps from Philadelphia; and my Wife and I computed,
that the whole could not have cost less than a hundred Pound."
"True," says the Farmer, "but you do not tell all the Story.
I think the Cap was nevertheless an Advantage to us, for
it was the first thing that put our Girls upon Knitting worsted
Mittens for Sale at Philadelphia, that they might have where-
withal to buy Caps and Ribbands there ; and you know that
that Industry has continued, and is likely to continue and
increase to a much greater Value, and answer better Pur-
poses." Upon the whole, I was more reconciled to this
little Piece of Luxury, since not only the Girls were made
happier by having fine Caps, but the Philadelphians by the
Supply of warm Mittens.

In our Commercial Towns upon the Seacoast, Fortunes
will occasionally be made. Some of those who grow rich
will be prudent, live within Bounds, and preserve what they
have gained for their Posterity ; others, fond of showing their
Wealth, will be extravagant and ruin themselves. Laws
cannot prevent this; and perhaps it is not always an evil to
the Publick. A Shilling spent idly by a Fool, may be picked
up by a Wiser Person, who knows better what to do with it.
It is therefore not lost. A vain, silly Fellow builds a fine
House, furnishes it richly, lives in it expensively, and in few
years ruins himself; but the Masons, Carpenters, Smiths,
and other honest Tradesmen have been by his Employ as-
sisted in maintaining and raising their Families ; the Farmer
has been paid for his labour, and encouraged, and the Estate
is now in better Hands. In some Cases, indeed, certain

1784] TO BENJAMIN VAUGHAN 245

Modes of Luxury may be a publick Evil, in the same Manner
as it is a Private one. If there be a Nation, for Instance,
that exports its Beef and Linnen, to pay for its Importation
of Claret and Porter, while a great Part of its People live upon
Potatoes, and wear no Shirts, wherein does it differ from the
Sot, who lets his Family starve, and sells his Clothes to buy
Drink? Our American Commerce is, I confess, a little in this
way. We sell our Victuals to your Islands for Rum and
Sugar; the substantial Necessaries of Life for Superfluities.
But we have Plenty, and live well nevertheless, tho' by being
soberer, we might be richer.

By the by, here is just issued an arrtt of Council taking off
all the Duties upon the exportation of Brandies, which, it is
said, will render them cheaper in America than your Rum;
in which case there is no doubt but they will be pre-
ferr'd, and we shall be better able to bear your Restrictions
on our Commerce. There are Views here, by augmenting
their Settlements, of being able to supply the growing People
of America with the Sugar that may be wanted there. On
the whole, I guess England will get as little by the Commer-
cial War she has begun with us, as she did by the Military.
But to return to Luxury.

The vast Quantity of Forest Lands we have yet to clear,
and put in order for Cultivation, will for a long time keep the
Body of our Nation laborious and frugal. Forming an Opin-
ion of our People and their Manners by what is seen among
the Inhabitants of the Seaports, is judging from an improper
Sample. The People of the Trading Towns may be rich
and luxurious, while the Country possesses all the Virtues,
that tend to private Happiness and publick Prosperity.
Those Towns are not much regarded by the Country; they

246 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1784

are hardly considered as an essential Part of the States;
and the Experience of the last War has shown, that their
being in the Possession of the Enemy did not necessarily
draw on the Subjection of the Country, which bravely con-
tinued to maintain its Freedom and Independence notwith-
standing.

It has been computed by some Political Arithmetician,
that, if every Man and Woman would work for four Hours
each Day on something useful, that Labour would produce
sufficient to procure all the Necessaries and Comforts of Life,
Want and Misery would be banished out of the World, and
the rest of the 24 hours might be Leisure and Pleasure.

What occasions then so much Want and Misery? It is
the Employment of Men and Women in Works, that produce
neither the Necessaries nor Conveniences of Life, who, with
those who do nothing, consume the Necessaries raised by the
Laborious. To explain this.

The first Elements of Wealth are obtained by Labour,
from the Earth and Waters. I have Land, and raise Corn.
With this, if I feed a Family that does nothing, my Corn will
be consum'd, and at the end of the Year I shall be no richer
than I was at the beginning. But if, while I feed them, I
employ them, some in Spinning, others in hewing Timber
and sawing Boards, others in making Bricks, &c. for Build-
ing, the Value of my Corn will be arrested and remain with
me, and at the end of the Year we may all be better clothed
and better lodged. And if, instead of employing a Man I
feed in making Bricks, I employ him in fiddling for me, the
Corn he eats is gone, and no Part of his Manufacture remains
to augment the Wealth and Convenience of the family; I
shall therefore be the poorer for this fiddling Man, unless the

1784] TO BENJAMIN VAUGHAN 247

rest of my Family work more, or eat less, to make up the
Deficiency he occasions.

Look round the World and see the Millions employ'd in
doing nothing, or in something that amounts to nothing,
when the Necessaries and Conveniences of Life are in ques-
tion. What is the Bulk of Commerce, for which we fight
and destroy each other, but the Toil of Millions for Super-
fluities, to the great Hazard and Loss of many Lives by the
constant Dangers of the Sea ? How much labour is spent in
Building and fitting great Ships, to go to China and Arabia
for Tea and Coffee, to the West Indies for Sugar, to America
for Tobacco ! These things cannot be called the Necessaries
of Life, for our Ancestors lived very comfortably without
them.

A Question may be asked; Could all these People, now
employed in raising, making, or canying Superfluities, be
subsisted by raising Necessaries? I think they might. The
World is large, and a great Part of it still uncultivated. Many
hundred Millions of Acres in Asia, Africa, and America are
still Forest, and a great Deal even in Europe. On 100 Acres
of this Forest a Man might become a substantial Farmer,
and 100,000 Men, employed in clearing each his 100 Acres,
would hardly brighten a Spot big enough to be Visible from
the Moon, unless with HerschelTs Telescope ; so vast are the
Regions still in Wood unimproved.

'Tis however, some Comfort to reflect, that, upon the whole,
the Quantity of Industry and Prudence among Mankind
exceeds the Quantity of Idleness and Folly. Hence the In-
crease of good Buildings, Farms cultivated, and populous
Cities filled with Wealth, all over Europe, which a few Ages
since were only to be found on the Coasts of the Mediterra-

248 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1784

nean; and this, notwithstanding the mad Wars continually
raging, by which are often destroyed in one year the Works
of many Years' Peace. So that we may hope the Luxury of a
few Merchants on the Seacoast will not be the Ruin of America.
One reflection more, and I will end this long, rambling
Letter. Almost all the Parts of our Bodies require some
Expence. The Feet demand Shoes; the Legs, Stockings;
the rest of the Body, Clothing; and the Belly, a good deal
of Victuals. Our Eyes, tho' exceedingly useful, ask, when
reasonable, only the cheap Assistance of Spectacles, which
could not much impair our Finances. But the Eyes of other
People are the Eyes that ruin us. If all but myself were
blind, I should want neither fine Clothes, fine Houses, nor

fine Furniture.

Adieu, my dear Friend, I am

Yours ever
B. FRANKLIN.

P. S. This will be delivered to you by my Grandson. I
am persuaded you will afford him your Civilities and Counsels.
Please to accept a little Present of Books, I send by him,
curious for the Beauty of the Impression.

1518. TO COMTE DE MERCY ARGENTEAU1

Passy, July 30, 1784.

SIR,

I have the honour to communicate to your Excellency an
extract from the instructions of Congress to their late Com-

1 From "Diplomatic Revolutionary Correspondence" (Sparks), Vol. II,
p. 515. Comte de Argenteau was Austrian Ambassador at the Court of
Versailles. — ED.

1784] TO MESSRS. SEARS AND SMITH 249

missioners for treating of peace, expressing their desire to
cultivate the friendship of his Imperial Majesty, and to enter
into a treaty of commerce for the mutual advantage of his
subjects and the citizens of the United States, which I request
you will be pleased to lay before his Majesty. The appointing
and instructing Commissioners for treaties of commerce with
the powers of Europe generally has, by various circumstances,
been long delayed, but is now done ; and I have just received
advice, that Mr. Jefferson, late Governor of Virginia, com-
missioned with Mr. Adams, our minister in Holland, and
myself, for that service, is on his way hither, and may be
expected by the end of August, when we shall be ready to
enter into a treaty with his Imperial Majesty for the above
purpose, if such should be his pleasure. With great and

sincere respect, &c.

B. FRANKLIN.

1519. TO MESSRS. SEARS AND SMITH (A. p. s.)

Passy, Aug. 4, 1784.

GENTLEMEN,

Upon Receipt of yours relating to your Cargo of Slaves at
Martinico, I endeavour'd to inform myself what was the Law
in such Cases; and I found, that by an arret du Conseil d'Etat
du Roi, of the 28th of June, 1783, there is a Duty laid, of 100
Livres per head, on all Negroes imported in foreign Ships, and
this Duty is granted and is to be paid as a Premium to the
French Importers of Negroes, as an Encouragement to their
own African Trade. Under these Circumstances I am
advis'd, that it cannot be expected that a general national
Law should be set aside in favour of a particular foreign

250 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1784

Ship ; especially as the King, if he forgives the Duty to the
Stranger, must thereby do Injustice to his own Subjects, to
whom he had promised the Produce of that Duty, unless he
pays it to them out of his own Money, which we cannot de-
cently request him to do. I do not, therefore, see any Possi-
bility of your avoiding the Payment. I have the Honour to

be, Gentlemen,

Your most obedient

& most humble Servant

B. FRANKLIN.

1520. TO JOHN ADAMS (M. H. s.)

Passy, August 6, 1784.

SIR : — Mr. Bingham sent me last night, from Paris, your
Excellency's letter of the 27th past, enclosing a copy of one
from Mr. Jefferson. I had before sent you a copy of one
from the same to me, which I hope you received. I enclose
herewith copies of a letter from Mr. Thomson, some new in-
structions, and one of the commissions. The other two are
in the same words, except that instead of the words the United
Netherlands, there is in one France, and in the other Sweden.
These came by Monsieur de la Luzerne, but it was not before
Wednesday last that I received them. You will see that a
good deal of business is cut out for us — treaties to be made
with, I think, twenty powers in two years, — so that we are
not likely to eat the bread of idleness ; and that we may not
surfeit by eating too much, our masters have diminished our
allowance. I commend their economy, and shall imitate it
by diminishing my expense. Our too liberal entertainment
of our countrymen here has been reported at home by our

1784] TO MRS. MARY HEWSON 251

guests, and has given offence. They must be contented for
the future, as I am, with plain beef and pudding. The
readers of Connecticut newspapers ought not to be troubled
for any more accounts of our extravagance. For my own part,
if I could sit down to dinner on a piece of excellent salt pork
and pumpkin, I would not give a farthing for all the luxuries
of Paris.

B. FRANKLIN.

1521. TO MRS. MARY HEWSON1 (p. c.)

Passy, Aug. 15, 1784.

DEAR FRIEND,

I received your kind Letter of July 22. I wish you had
executed your Project of taking a little Trip to see me this
Summer. You would have made me very happy, and might
have bath'd your Children here, as well as at Southampton,
I having a Bath in my House, besides the River in view. I
like your monthly Account of them, and in Return send you
my Daughter's Account of my Grandchildren at Philadelphia.
You will see she expected me home this Summer; but my
Constituents have sent me a new Commission, and I must stay
another Winter. Can you not come and pass it with me here ?

Temple, who proposes to have the Pleasure of delivering
this to you, will explain to you how you may be accommodated,
and, if you can resolve to come, will conduct you. Except
being at home, which I begin now to fear I never shall be,
nothing could give me greater Pleasure. Come, my dear
Friend, live with me while I stay here, and go with me, if I
do go, to America. Yours most affectionately,

B. FRANKLIN.

1 From the original in the possession of T. Hewson Bradford, M.D.— ED.

252 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1784

P. S. My Love to the dear Children, particularly my
Godson, for whom Temple has a little Present of French
Books.

1522. TO WILLIAM FRANKLIN (B. ic.)

Passy, Aug. 16, 1784.
DEAR SON,

I received your Letter of the 22d past, and am glad to find
that you desire to revive the affectionate Intercourse, that
formerly existed between us. It will be very agreable to me ;
indeed nothing has ever hurt me so much and affected me
with such keen Sensations, as to find myself deserted in my
old Age by my only Son ; and not only deserted, but to find
him taking up Arms against me, in a Cause, wherein my good
Fame, Fortune and Life were all at Stake. You conceived,
you say, that your Duty to your King and Regard for your
Country requir'd this. I ought not to blame you for differing
in Sentiment with me in Public Affairs. We are Men, all
subject to Errors. Our Opinions are not in our own Power;
they are form'd and govern'd much by Circumstances, that
are often as inexplicable as they are irresistible. Your
Situation was such that few would have censured your re-
maining Neuter, tho1 there are Natural Duties which precede
political ones, and cannot be extinguished by them.

This is a disagreable Subject. I drop it. And we will
endeavour, as you propose mutually to forget what has
happened relating to it, as well as we can. I send your
Son over to pay his Duty to you. You will find him much
improv'd. He is greatly esteem'd and belov'd in this Coun-
try, and will make his Way anywhere. It is my Desire, that

1784] TO WILLIAM FRANKLIN 253

he should study the Law, as a necessary Part of Knowledge
for a public Man, and profitable if he should have occasion
to practise it. I would have you therefore put into his hands
those Law-books you have, viz. Blackstone, Coke, Bacon,
Viner, &c. He will inform you, that he received the Letter
sent him by Mr. Galloway, and the Paper it enclosed, safe.

On my leaving America, I deposited with that Friend for
you, a Chest of Papers, among which was a Manuscript of
nine or ten Volumes, relating to Manufactures, Agriculture,
Commerce, Finance, etc., which cost me in England about
70 Guineas; eight Quire Books, containing the Rough
Drafts of all my Letters while I liv'd in London. These are
missing. I hope you have got them, if not, they are lost. Mr.
Vaughan has publish'd in London a Volume of what he calls
my Political Works. He proposes a second Edition; but,
as the first was very incompleat, and you had many Things
that were omitted, (for I used to send you sometimes the
Rough Drafts, and sometimes the printed Pieces I wrote in
London,) I have directed him to apply to you for what may be
in your Power to furnish him with, or to delay his Publica-
tion till I can be at home again, if that may ever happen.

I did intend returning this year; but the Congress, instead
of giving me Leave to do so, have sent me another Commission,
which will keep me here at least a Year longer ; and perhaps
I may then be too old and feeble to bear the Voyage. I am
here among a People that love and respect me, a most amiable
Nation to live with; and perhaps I may conclude to die
among them ; for my Friends hi America are dying off, one
after another, and I have been so long abroad, that I should
now be almost a Stranger in my own Country.

I shall be glad to see you when convenient, but would not

254 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1784

have you come here at present. You may confide to your
son the Family Affairs you wished to confer upon with me,
for he is discreet. And I trust, that you will prudently avoid
introducing him to Company, that it may be improper for
him to be seen with. I shall hear from you by him and any
letters to me afterwards, will come safe under Cover directed
to Mr. Ferdinand Grand, Banker at Paris. Wishing you
Health, and more Happiness than it seems you have lately
experienced, I remain your affectionate father,

B. FRANKLIN.

1523. TO RICHARD PRICE (L. c.)

Passy, August 16, 1784.

DEAR FRIEND,

I some time since answered your kind Letter of July 12,
returning the Proof of Mr. Turgot's Letter, with the Per-
mission of his Friends to print it. I hope it came safe to
hand. I had before received yours of April 6,1 which gave
me great Pleasure, as it acquainted me with your Welfare,
and that of Dr. Priestley.

The Commencement here of the Art of Flying will, as you
observe, be a new Epoch. The Construction and Manner of
Filling the Balloons improves daily. Some of the Artists
have lately gone to England. It will be well for your Philoso-
phers to obtain from them what they know, or you will be
behindhand; which in mechanic Operations is unusual for
Englishmen.

I hope the Disagreements in our Royal Society are com-
posed. Quarrels often disgrace both Sides; and Disputes

1 Both of these letters, April 6 and July 12, are in A. P. S. — ED.

1784] TO RICHARD PRICE 255

even on small Matters often produce Quarrels for want of
knowing how to differ decently; an Art which it is said
scarce anybody possesses but yourself and Dr. Priestley.

I had indeed Thoughts of visiting England once more, and
of enjoying the great Pleasure of seeing again my Friends
there ; but my Malady, otherwise tolerable, is I find irritated
by Motion in a Carriage and I fear the Consequence of such a
Journey ; yet I am not quite resolv'd against it. I often think
of the agreable Evenings I used to pass with that excellent
Collection of good Men, the Club at the London, and wish to
be again among them. Perhaps I may pop in some Thursday
evening when they least expect me. You may well believe it
very pleasing to me to have Dr. Priestley associated with me
among the Foreign Members of the Academy of Sciences. I
had mention'd him upon every Vacancy, that has happen'd
since my Residence here, and the Place has never been
bestow'd more worthily.

When you wrote the Letter I am now answering, your
Nation was involv'd in the Confusion of your new Election.
When I think of your present crazy Constitution and its
Diseases, I imagine the enormous Emoluments of Place to be
among the greatest; and, while they exist, I doubt whether
even the Reform of your Representation will cure the Evils
constantly arising from your perpetual Factions. As it
seems to be a settled Point at present, that the Minister must
govern the Parliament, who are to do every thing he would
have done ; and he is to bribe them to do this, and the People
are to furnish the Money to pay these Bribes; the Parlia-
ment appears to me a very expensive Machine for Govern-
ment, and I apprehend the People will find out in time, that
they may as well be governed, and that it will be much cheaper

256 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1784

to be governed, by the Minister alone; no Parliament being
preferable to the present.

Your Newspapers are full of fictitious Accounts of Dis-
tractions in America. We know nothing of them. Mr.
Jefferson, just arrived here, after a Journey thro' all the
States from Virginia to Boston, assures me, that all is quiet,
a general Tranquility reigns, and the People well satisfy'd
with their present Forms of Government, a few insignificant
Persons only excepted. These Accounts are I suppose in-
tended as consolatory, and to discourage Emigrations. I
think with you, that our Revolution is an important Event
for the Advantage of Mankind in general. It is to be hoped
that the Lights we enjoy, which the ancient Governments in
their first Establishment could not have, may preserve us from
their Errors. In this the Advice of wise Friends may do us
much good, and I am sure that which you have been so kind as
to offer us will be of great Service.

Mr. Jay is gone to America ; but Mr. Adams is just arriv'd
here, and I shall acquaint him with your remembrance of
him. Poor Paradise * whom you mention I respect and pity.
But there is no helping him. He seems calculated by Nature
for Unhappiness and will be equally miserable whether with
or without his wife,2 having no firmness of Mind. I doubt his

1 John Paradise (1743-1795), born at Salonica (Macedonia), son of the
English consul at that place, was an extraordinary linguist and one of Dr.
Johnson's friends and a mourner at his funeral. — ED.

2 Paradise married " a beautiful and lively American " whose ungovernable
temper was the talk of the town. See Fanny Burney, " Diary and Letters,"
Vol. II, pp. 116-122. The property in Virginia was hers and she retired
there after her husband's death. Price wrote to Franklin, "the folly, ill-
temper and extravagance of his [Paradise's] wife produced for some weeks a
Separation between him and her, and made him one of the most unhappy men
I ever saw." — ED.

1784] TO BENJAMIN WEST 257

Property in Virginia may suffer by his Irresolution. Many
Thanks for your kind Wishes respecting my Health and Hap-
piness, which I return fourfold, being ever with the sincerest
Esteem, my dear Friend, yours most affectionately

B. FRANKLIN.

1524. TO BENJAMIN WEST l (p. c.)

Passy, Aug. 17, 1784.

DEAR SIR,

I forget whether I answered in its time your kind letter by
Mr. Dagge. I have it now before me, and there will be no
harm in answering it twice. It gave me great Pleasure, as
it inform'd me of the Welfare of a Family I so much esteem
and love, and that my Godson is a promising Boy. I wish
much to see you all once more. The Malady I have, tho'
otherwise tolerable, prevents my using a Carriage, and so
discourages the Journey. If I grow better, and I do think
I am mending, possibly I may undertake it before I go to
America. You can tell me whether my Appearance in Lon-
don may not be offensive to some whom I ought not and do
not desire to offend any farther. I am glad to hear that Mr.
and Mrs. Aufrere are well, and preserve me in their kind
Remembrance.2 They are Persons that I very much esteem
and respect. They had an amiable Daughter who was mar-
ried before I left England. Is she well, and has she Children ?
This will be delivered to you by my Grandson who respects

1 From the original in the autograph collection of Mr. John Boyd
Thacher. — ED.

2 Anthony Aufrere of Hoveton Hall, Norfolk, who married Anna, only
daughter of John Norris of Witton in Norfolk, and sister of John Norris,
founder of the Norrisian professorship at Cambridge. — ED.

VOL. IX — s

258 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1784

you infinitely. My Love to Raphael and my Godson. I
shall be glad to see Raphael1 here, and would have him come
at the Time of the Salon. Embrace Betsey 2 for me most
affectionately, and believe me ever, my dear Friend,
Yours sincerely

B. FRANKLIN.

1525. TO LORD HOWE (L. c.)

Passy, Augt 18., 1784.

MY LORD,

I received lately the very valuable Voyage of the late Cap-
tain Cook, kindly sent to me by your Lordship in considera-
tion of my Good- will in issuing Orders towards the protec-
tion of that illustrious Discoverer from any Interruption in his
Return home by American Cruisers. The Reward vastly
exceeds the small Merit of the Action, which was no more than
a Duty to Mankind. I am very sensible of his Majesty's
Goodness in permitting this Favour to me, and I desire that
my thankful acknowledgements may be accepted. With
great Respect, I am, my Lord, your Lordship's most obedient
and most humble servant,

B. FRANKLIN.8

1 Raphael Lamar West (1769-1850), the elder of Benjamin West's two
sons. — ED.

2 Mrs. West, nee Elizabeth Shewell.— ED.

3 A gold medal was struck by order of the Royal Society, with particular
reference to the protection afforded to Captain Cook's vessels by the Emperor
of Russia and the King of France. The Society bestowed upon Dr. Franklin
a compliment similar to the King's, by presenting to him one of these medals.
— S.

1784] TO WILLIAM STRAHAN 259

1526. TO WILLIAM STRAHAN (L. c.)

Passy, Aug* i9-th 1784.

DEAR FRIEND,

I received your kind Letter of Ap1 i7th. You will have
the goodness to place my delay in answering to the Account
of Indisposition and Business, and excuse it. I have now that
letter before me; and my Grandson, whom you may formerly
remember a little Scholar of Mr. Elphinston's, purposing to
set out in a day or two on a visit to his Father in London,
I set down to scribble a little to you, first recommending him
as a worthy young Man to your Civilities and Counsels.

You press me much to come to England. I am not with-
out strong Inducements to do so; the Fund of Knowledge
you promise to Communicate to me is an Addition to them,
and no small one. At present it is impracticable. But,
when my Grandson returns, come with him. We will then
talk the matter over, and perhaps you may take me back with
you. I have a Bed at your service, and will try to make your
Residence, while you can stay with us, as agreable to you, if
possible, as I am sure it will be to me.

You do not " approve the annihilation of profitable Places;
for you do not see why a Statesman, who does his Business
well, should not be paid for his Labour as well as any other
Workman." Agreed. But why more than any other Work-
man? The less the Salary the greater the Honor. In so
great a Nation, there are many rich enough to afford giving
their time to the Public; and there are, I make no doubt,
many wise and able Men, who would take as much Pleasure

260 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN- FRANKLIN [1784

in governing for nothing, as they do in playing Chess for
nothing. It would be one of the noblest of Amusements.
That this Opinion is not Chimerical, the Country I now live
in affords a Proof ; its whole Civil and Criminal Law Admin-
istration being done for nothing, or in some sense for less than
nothing; since the Members of its Judiciary Parliaments
buy their Places, and do not make more than three per cent
for their Money by their Fees and Emoluments, while the
legal Interest is five; so that in Fact they give two per cent
to be allow'd to govern, and all their time and trouble into the
Bargain. Thus Profit, one Motive for desiring Place, being
abolish'd, there remains only Ambition; and that being in
some degree ballanced by Loss, you may easily conceive,
that there will not be very violent Factions and Contentions
for such Places, nor much of the Mischief to the Country,
that attends your Factions, which have often occasioned
Wars, and overloaded you with Debts impayable.

I allow you all the Force of your Joke upon the Vagrancy
of our Congress. They have a right to sit where they please,
of which perhaps they have made too much Use by shifting
too often. But they have two other Rights ; those of sitting
when they please, and as long as they please, in which
methinks they have the advantage of your Parliament; for
they cannot be dissolved by the Breath of a Minister, or sent
packing as you were the other day, when it was your earnest
desire to have remained longer together.

You "fairly acknowledge, that the late War terminated
quite contrary to your Expectation." Your expectation was
ill founded ; for you would not believe your old Friend, who
told you repeatedly, that by those Measures England would
lose her Colonies, as Epictetus warned in vain his Master that

I784] TO WILLIAM STRAHAN 261

he would break his Leg. You believ'd rather the Tales you
heard of our Poltroonery and Impotence of Body and Mind.
Do you not remember the Story you told me of the Scotch
sergeant, who met with a Party of Forty American Soldiers,
and, tho' alone, disarm'd them all, and brought them in
Prisoners? A Story almost as Improbable as that of the
Irishman, who pretended to have alone taken and brought
in Five of the enemy by surrounding them. And yet, my
Friend, sensible and Judicious as you are, but partaking of
the general Infatuation, you seemed to believe it.

The Word general puts me in mind of a General, your
General Clarke, who had the Folly to say in my hearing at
Sir John Pringle's, that, with a Thousand British grenadiers,
he would undertake to go from one end of America to the
other, and geld all the Males, partly by force and partly by a
little Coaxing. It is plain he took us for a species of Animals
very little superior to Brutes. The Parliament too believ'd
the stories of another foolish General, I forget his Name, that
the Yankeys never jell bold. Yankey was understood to be a
sort of Yahoo, and the Parliament did not think the Petitions
of such Creatures were fit to be received and read in so wise
an Assembly. What was the consequence of this monstrous
Pride and Insolence ? You first sent small Armies to subdue
us, believing them more than sufficient, but soon found your-
selves obliged to send greater ; these, whenever they ventured
to penetrate our Country beyond the Protection of their Ships,
were either repulsed and obliged to scamper out, or were
surrounded, beaten, and taken Prisoners. An American
Planter, who had never seen Europe, was chosen by us to
Command our Troops, and continued during the whole War.
This Man sent home to you, one after another, five of your

262 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1784

best Generals baffled, their Heads bare of Laurels, disgraced
even in the Opinion of their Employers.

Your contempt of our Understandings, in Comparison with
your own, appeared to be not much better founded than that
of our Courage, if we may judge by this Circumstance, that,
in whatever Court of Europe a Yankey negociator appeared,
the wise British Minister was routed, put in a passion, pick'd
a quarrel with your Friends, and was sent home with a Flea
in his Ear.

But after all, my dear Friend, do not imagine that I am
vain enough to ascribe our Success to any superiority in any
of those Points. I am too well acquainted with all the
Springs and Levers of our Machine, not to see, that our human
means were unequal to our undertaking, and that, if it had not
been for the Justice of our Cause, and the consequent Inter-
position of Providence, in which we had Faith, we must have
been ruined. If I had ever before been an Atheist, I should
now have been convinced of the Being and Government of a
Deity ! It is he who abases the Proud and favours the Hum-
ble. May we never forget his Goodness to us, and may our
future Conduct manifest our Gratitude.

But let us leave these serious Reflections and converse with
our usual Pleasantry. I remember your observing once to me
as we sat together in the House of Commons, that no two
Journeymen Printers, within your Knowledge, had met with
such Success in the World as ourselves. You were then at
the head of your Profession, and soon afterwards became a
Member of Parliament. I was an Agent for a few Provinces,
and now act for them all. But we have risen by different
Modes. I, as a Republican Printer, always liked a Form well
plain* d down; being averse to those overbearing Letters that

1784] TO WILLIAM STRAHAN 263

hold their Heads so high, as to hinder their Neighbours from
appearing. You, as a Monarchist, chose to work upon
Crown Paper, and found it profitable; while I work'd upon
pro patria (often indeed calPd Fools Cap) with no less advan-
tage. Both our Heaps hold out very well, and we seem likely
to make a pretty good day's Work of it. With regard to Public
Affairs (to continue in the same stile), it seems to me that the
Compositors in your Chapel do not cast off their Copy well,
nor perfectly understand Imposing; their Forms, too, are
continually pester'd by the Outs and Doubles, that are not
easy to be corrected. And I think they were wrong in laying
aside some Faces, and particularly certain Head-pieces, that
would have been both useful and ornamental. But, Courage !
The Business may still flourish with good Management ; and
the Master become as rich as any of the Company.

By the way, the rapid Growth and extension of the English
language in America, must become greatly Advantageous to
the booksellers, and holders of Copy- Rights in England. A
vast audience is assembling there for English Authors, an-
cient, present, and future, our People doubling every twenty
Years; and this will demand large and of course profitable
Impressions of your most valuable Books. I would, therefore,
if I possessed such rights, entail them, if such a thing be prac-
ticable, upon my Posterity ; for their Worth will be continu-
ally augmenting. This may look a little like Advice, and yet
I have drank no Madeira these Ten Months.

The Subject, however, leads me to another Thought,
which is, that you do wrong to discourage the Emigration
of Englishmen to America. In my piece on Population, I
have proved, I think, that Emigration does not diminish but
multiplies a Nation. You will not have fewer at home for

264 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1784

those that go Abroad ; and as every Man who comes among
us, and takes up a piece of Land, becomes a Citizen, and by
our Constitution has a Voice in Elections, and a share in the
Government of the Country, why should you be against ac-
quiring by this fair Means a Repossession of it, and leave it
to be taken by Foreigners of all Nations and Languages, who
by their Numbers may drown and stifle the English, which
otherwise would probably become in the course of two Cen-
turies the most extensive Language in the World, the Spanish
only excepted? It is a Fact, that the Irish emigrants and
their children are now in Possession of the Government of
Pennsylvania, by their Majority in the Assembly, as well as
of a great Part of the Territory; and I remember well the
first Ship that brought any of them over. I am ever, my dear
Friend, yours most affectionately,

B. FRANKLIN.

1527. TO GEORGE WHATLEY (L. c.)

Passy, Augt 21, 1784.

MY DEAR OLD FRIEND,

I received your kind Letter of May 3d, 1783. I am
ashamed that it has been so long unanswered. The Indo-
lence of Old Age, frequent Indisposition, and too much
Business are my only Excuses. I had great pleasure in
reading it, as it informed me of your Welfare.

Your excellent little Work, The Principles of Trade, is too
little known. I wish you would send me a Copy of it by the
Return of my Grandson and Secretary, whom I beg leave
to Recommend to your Civilities. I would get it translated
and printed here, And if your Bookseller has any quantity

1784] TO GEORGE WHATLEY 265

of them left, I should be glad he would send them to America.
The Ideas of our People there, tho' rather better than those
that prevail in Europe, are not so good as they should be;
and that Piece might be of service among them.

Since and soon after the Date of your letter, we lost unac-
countably, as well as unfortunately, that worthy, valuable
young Man you mention, your namesake, Maddison. He
was infinitely regretted by all that knew him.

I am sorry your favorite Chanty l does not go on as you could
wish it. It is shrunk indeed by your admitting only 60 chil-
dren a year. What you have told your brethren respecting
America is true. If you find it difficult to dispose of your
Children in England, it looks as if you had too many people.
And yet you are afraid of Emigration. A Subscription is
lately set on foot here to encourage and assist Mothers in
Nursing their Infants themselves at home; the Practice of
sending them to the Enjants trouves having risen here to a
monstrous Excess, as, by the annual Bill, it appears they
amount to near one Third of the Children born in Paris !
The Subscription is likely to succeed, and may do a great
deal of good, tho' it cannot answer all the purposes of a Found-
ling Hospital.

Your Eyes must continue very good, since you can write so
small a Hand without Spectacles. I cannot distinguish a
Letter even of Large Print ; but am happy in the invention of
Double Spectacles, which, serving for distant objects as well
as near ones, make my Eyes as useful to me as ever they were.
If all the other Defects and Infirmities were as easily and
cheaply remedied, it would be worth while for Friends to live
a good deal longer, but I look upon Death to be as necessary

1 The Foundling Hospital, of which Mr. Whatley was the Treasurer. — ED.

266 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1784

to our Constitution as Sleep. We shall rise refreshed in the
Morning. Adieu, and believe me ever yours most affec-
tionately,

B. F[RANKLIN].

1528. TO JOSEPH PRIESTLEY (i. c.)

Passy, Augt 21, 1784.

DEAR SIR,

Understanding that my Letter intended for you by General
Melvill,1 was lost at the H6tel d'Espagne, I take this Oppor-
tunity by my Grandson to give you the purport of it, as well
as I can recollect. I thank'd you for the Pleasure you had
procured me of the General's Conversation, whom I found a
judicious, sensible, and amiable Man. I was glad to hear
that you possess'd a comfortable Retirement, and more so that
you had Thoughts of removing to Philadelphia, for that it
would make me very happy to have you there. Your Com-
panions would be very acceptable to the Library, but I hoped
you would long live to enjoy their Company yourself. I
agreed with you in Sentiments concerning the Old Testa-
ment, and thought the Clause in our Constitution, which
required the Members of Assembly to declare their belief,
that the whole 0} it was given by divine Inspiration, had better
have been omitted. That I had opposed the Clause; but,
being overpower'd by Numbers, and fearing more might in
future Times be grafted on it, I prevailed to have the addi-
tional Clause, "that no farther or more extended Profession
of Faith should ever be exacted." I observed to you too, that

1 Robert Melville (1723-1809), general and antiquary, inventor of the
"Carronades." — ED.

1784] TO JOSEPH PRIESTLEY 267

the Evil of it was the less, as no Inhabitant, nor any Officer
of Government, except the Members of Assembly, were
oblig'd to make that Declaration.

So much for that Letter; to which I may now add, that
there are several Things in the Old Testament, impossible
to be given by divine Inspiration; such as the Approbation
ascribed to the Angel of the Lord, of that abominably wicked
and detestable Action of Jael, the wife of Heber, the Kenite.1
If the rest of the Book were like that, I should rather suppose
it given by Inspiration from another Quarter, and renounce
the whole.

By the way, how goes on the Unitarian Church in Essex
Street? And the honest Minister of it,2 is he comfortably
supported ? Your old Colleague, Mr. Radcliff , is he living ?
And what became of Mr. Denham ?

My Grandson, who will have the honour of delivering this
to you, may bring me a Line from you ; and I hope will bring
me an Account of your continuing well and happy.

I jog on still, with as much Health, and as few of the
Infirmities of old Age, as I have any Reason to expect. But
whatever is impair'd in my Constitution, my Regard for my
old Friends remains firm and entire. You will always have
a good Share of it, for I am ever with great and sincere
esteem, dear Sir, &c.

B. FRANKLIN.

1 Judges, chap. iv.

2 Theophilus Lindsey (1723-1808), named after Theophilus, Earl of Hunt-
ingdon, his godfather. His friends built for him the chapel in Essex Street,
opened in March, 1778. He published in 1784 "Vindiciae Priestleyana."
-ED.

268 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1784

1529. TO WILLIAM TEMPLE FRANKLIN (A. p. s.)

Passy, Aug* 25. 1784. Wednesday.
MY DEAR CHILD,

Nothing very material has happened since you left us.
The D. of Dorset calFd yesterday, and enquired if I had
heard from you, supposing you had been gone a Week. Mr.
Adams & Family, Mad6 Dandelot and other Friends have
visited me ; & Mad? Saurin who is return'd from England.
We din'd with her yesterday. She says Made. D'hauteville
will be glad to see you in England, wishes you would call
upon her, and has given- me her Address, which I enclose.
We dine, Ben & I, today with M. de Chaumont, & Satur-
day with Mr. Adams.

The Report i is publish'd and makes a great deal of Talk.
Everybody agrees that it is well written; but many wonder
at the Force of Imagination describ'd in it, as occasioning
Convulsions &c. and some fear that Consequences may be
drawn from it by Infidels to weaken our Faith in some of the
Miracles of the New Testament. I send you two more Copies.
You would do well to give one to the French Ambassador,
if he has not had it. Some think it will put an End to Mes-
merism. But there is a wonderful deal of Credulity in the
World, and Deceptions as absurd, have supported themselves
for Ages.

I send you a few more Letters, and am

Your affectionate Grandfather,
B. FRANKLIN.

P. S. Mrs. Holt, Printer to the State in New York, is

1 Report of the Commission for the investigation of Mesmerism. — ED.

1784] TO BENJAMIN VAUGHAN 269

punctual since her Husband's Death, in sending me News
Papers by every Packet. At the Entrance of the Exchange
is a little shop where they sell all the London's Newspapers.
I would have you buy a few of the latest and send to her,
and let her know it is by my Order. You will find a Bag up
in the New York Coffee-House, in which you can put the
Packet directed to her.

1530. TO COMTE DE VERGENNES l
SlR Passy, September 3, 1784.

I have the honour to transmit to your Excellency, by order
of Congress, a resolution of theirs, dated the nth of May
last, which is in the words following, viz.

" Resolved, That Dr. Franklin be instructed to express to the court of
France, the constant desire of Congress to meet their wishes ; that these
States are about to form a general system of commerce, by treaties with other
nations ; that, at this time, they cannot foresee what claim might be given
to those nations by the explanatory propositions from the Count de Vergennes,
on the second and third articles of our Treaty of Amity and Commerce with
His Most Christian Majesty, but that he may be assured it will be our con-
stant care to place no people on more advantageous ground than the subjects
of his Majesty."

With great respect, I am, &c.

B. FRANKLIN.

1531. TO BENJAMIN VAUGHAN (L. c.)

MY DEAR FRIEND, Pass>' ***• 7' '784'

This will be delivered to you by Count Mirabeau ; 2 son
of the Marquis of that name, Author of UAmi des Hommes.

1 From "Diplomatic Revolutionary Correspondence" (Sparks), Vol. II,
p. 516. — ED.

2 The same who afterwards so eminently distinguished himself by his elo-
quence in the early part of the French Revolution. — \V. T. F.

270 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1784

This Gentleman is esteemed here, and I recommend him
to your Civilities and Counsels, particularly with respect to
the Printing of a Piece he has written on the subject of heredi-
tary Nobility, on occasion of the Order of Cincinnati lately
attempted to be established in America, which cannot be
printed here. I find that some of the best Judges think it
extremely well written, with great Clearness, Force, and
Elegance. If you can recommend him to an honest, reason-
able Bookseller, that will undertake it, you will do him Ser-
vice, and perhaps some to Mankind, who are too much
bigotted in many Countries to that kind of imposition.

I had formerly almost resolved to trouble you with no more
letters of Recommendation; but I think you will find this
Gentleman to possess Talents, that may render his acquaint-
ance agreable. With sincere Esteem, I am ever, my dear
Friend, yours most affectionately,

B. FRANKLIN.

1532. TO W. T. FRANKLIN (A. p. s.)

Passy, Sept. 8. 1784.

MY DEAR CHILD,

I have receiv'd no Line from you since that from Dover.
I continue as well as when you left me. M. le Veillard is
much better but still weak and cannot yet go abroad. The
rest of our Friends are well, and often enquire after you. I
intended to have sent you some more Letters ; but my Time
has been all devour'd by Business and Visitors. The in-
clos'd Pacquet is from M. le Veillard. I have promis'd him
that you will take care of it and deliver it immediately. It
contains two Letters of Recommendation wch I have given

1784] TO W. T. FRANKLIN 271

the Count * at M. V's Request, one to Dr. Price, the other to
our Friend Vaughan. If it should be in your way to show him
any Civilities, I would have you do it. He is a Man of Talents,
and his Father was obliging to me when I was formerly in
France. I have three Invitations to dine out to-day, with
Madames Brillon, Helvetius, and M. de Chaumont. But
it is so excessively hot, that I shall stay at home. We pro-
ceed gently with our Business. The Newspapers begin to
come from Dover, so I would have you stop & pay off the
others. Thank Mr. Thomson in my Behalf when you re-
turn. I am ever

Your affectionate Grandfather

B. FRANKLIN.

P. S. Mesmer has complain'd to the Parliament of our
Report, and requested that they would appoint Commis-
saries, to whom he might submit the Examination of — not
his Theory and Practice, but — un Plan qui renfermera les
seuls moyens possibles de constater infailliblement 1'exis-
tence & Futilite* de sa decouverte. The Petition was printed.
Many thought the Parliament would do nothing in it. But
they have laid hold of it to clinch Mesmer, and oblige him
to expose all directly. So that it must soon be seen whether
there is any difference between his Art & Desler's. Voici leur

[Arret du 6 7brc 1784.]

La Cour ordonne qui par devant quatre Docteurs de la
Faculte* de Medecine, deux Chirurgiens, & deux Maitres en
Pharmacie, Mesmer sera tenu d'exposer la Doctrine dont il
annonce avoir fait la Decouverte & les procede*s qu'il pretend
devoir etre suivis & pratique's pour en faire Le Application ;

1 Count Mirabeau, see preceding letter. — ED.

272 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1784

dont sera dresse* Proce's verbal, pour celui communique' a
M. le Procureur General, et rapporte* en la Cour e*tre or-
donne ce qu'il appartriendra.

1533. TO AN UNKNOWN CORRESPONDENT (L.C.)

Passy ce 12 Septembre, 1784

J'AI recu Monsieur, la Lettre que vous m'avez fait Phon-
neur de m'e'crire le 8 de ce Mois. Je suis bien sensible a
PInteret que vous voulez bien prendre a ma Sante*, et je vous
suis infiniment oblige* ainsi qu'a M. Dubourg; de la Com-
munication de votre Remede contre la Pierres et la Gravelle.
Ma Maladie ayant £te [ ] supportable j'usqu'a ce Jour,
Je ne suis point encore determine a faire usage d'aucun
Medicament. Si le Mai augmentoit par la suite et que Je
me visse oblige* d'avoir recours a votre Recette, Je me ferai
un Devoir de vous faire part du Succes. Agre*ez, Je vous
prie, mes sinceres Remercimens et les Sentiment d'estime et
de Reconnoissance avec les quels J'ai Phonneur d'etre,
Monsieur,

Votre tres humble et tres obeissant serviteur.

B. FRANKLIN.

1534. TO W. T. FRANKLIN (A. p. s.)

Passy, Sept. 13, 1784.
MY DEAR CHILD,

I received last Night yours of the f* & am glad to hear
you are quit of your Fever. You are well advis'd to continue
taking the Bark. There is an English Proverb that says,

1784] TO W. T. FRANKLIN" 273

An Ounce oj Prevention is worth a Pound of Cure. It is
particularly true with regard to the Bark and an Intermit-
tent.—

I consent to your going with your Father, and to your
Stay in England until the Middle of October.

Don't omit writing to me by every Post. The uncertain
State of your Health makes me more anxious to hear from
you.

I wrote to you that I had not suffer'd by going in a Carriage
to Auteuil. I afterwards had reason to think otherwise,
tho' it was not much. It has however discourag'd my re-
peating the Experiment. The Swedish Ambassador has
press'd me much to dine this day with him & Prince Henry,
but I thought myself oblig'd to refuse him. I walk'd how-
ever to Auteuil on Saturday to dine with Mr. A.1 &c. with
whom I go on comfortably. —

I have procur'd a Sauj Conduit for B. and he leaves us
to-morrow. Mr. W" will supply his Place.

Your Room-Floor was all taken up, the Timbers being
found so rotten that one might crumble them between the
Fingers. New ones are laid in Mortar, and the whole left open
to dry before the Boards are replaced. As your Stay will be
longer, we may give more time for the Drying, to prevent your
being incommoded with any remaining Dampness.

Get me a Book called Miscellanies by Daines Barrington,
Esqr.3

Give my Love to your Father.

Remember me affectionately to all enquiring Friends.

I am your loving Grandfather

B. FRANKLIN.

1 John Adams. — ED.

2 Daines Barrington (1727-1800), "Miscellanies" . — ED.

VOL. IX— T

274 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1784

M & Madm Brillon with whom I am to Breakfast this
Morning, have charg'd me with mille choses to say to you on
their Behalf. Ben sends his Love, & his Duty to his Uncle.

M? le Veillard still continues low & weak.

1535. TO W. T. FRANKLIN (A. p. s.)

Passy, Oct. 2. 1784

DEAR GRANDSON,

I have not receiv'd a Line from you since that of Sept. 7.
now near a Month.1 I have waited with impatience the
Arrival of every Post. — But not a Word. — All your Ac-
quaintance are continually enquiring what News from you.
— I have none. Judge what I must feel, what they must
think, and tell me what I am to think of such Neglect. I
must suppose it Neglect : for if your Fever had return'd, and
you were unable to write, surely your Father, or somebody
would have inform'd me of it. — I shall continue however
till this Conduct of yours is clear'd up, hoping it may be
explain'd to my Satisfaction,

Your affectionate Grandfather
B. F.

1536. TO WILLIAM CARMICHAEL (A. p. s.)

Passy, Oct. n, 1784

DEAR SIR,

I have just received the honour of yours of the 25th past,2
and shall communicate it as you desire to my Colleagues

1 A letter from W. T. Franklin, dated September 26, 1784, is in A. P. S.

—ED.

a In A. P. S. — ED.

1784] TO WILLIAM CARMICHAEL 275

tomorrow. I think you did right in Mentioning to the
Minister the Nature of our Commission &c. In my last I
sent you a Copy of our Letter to the Count d'Aranda, herein
I inclose his Answer, in order to keep you fully inform'd of
what passes in the Negociation. The Reply has not yet been
made, as soon as it is, you shall have that likewise. I am
glad to learn that Mf Gardoqui l is sent to America. I write
in much Pain, and cannot now add but that I am ever, with
sincere Esteem and affection,
Dear Sir,

Your most obedient

& most humble Servant

B. FRANKLIN.

P. S. Oct. 15. 1784.

Since writing the within, I have been acquainted that Mr
James Hartwell2 of Salem in New England, being at S*
Sebastian with a Cargo of Tobacco, & occasionally going
from thence to Bilbao, was seized in the latter Place by the
officers of the Inquisition, some Months since, and convey'd
to Logrone, being charged with having three or four years
ago embrac'd the Catholic Religion and afterwards quitting
it. They have also it seems taken Possession of his Tobacco.
And it is but lately, that his Friends of Bordeaux from whence
he went to meet his Cargo in Spain, have heard of his Mis-
fortune. There are some Americans of Distinction here
that know him, who say he is of a good Family, and bears
a good Character, but is sometimes a little disordered in his

1 M. Gardoqui, formerly consul-general in England, was appointed Charge
d'affaires to the United States with the commission of Minister. — ED.

* See letter to Carmichael, March 22, 1785, and letter to Jonathan Williams,
April 13, 1785. — ED.

276 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1784

Mind ; and they are exceedingly concern'd at his Situation,
and anxious that his Release should be obtained. My Col-
leagues My Adams and Mr Jefferson join with me in stating
this Matter to you, and Requesting that you would immedi-
ately take the proper Steps for Reclaiming him as a Subject
of the United States, and procuring an order for his Liberty
and the Restitution of his Property. This Conduct of the
Holy office, if not rectified, may be attended with bad
Consequences to the Commerce & Friendly Correspondence
that ought to be cultivated between the two Nations. —

Yours as ever

B. FRANKLIN.

1537. TO CHARLES THOMSON1

Passy, October 16, 1784.

DEAR SIR,

It was intended by the Commissioners to write a joint
letter to Congress, but I am afraid the opportunity may be
missed. This may serve to inform you, that propositions
of treating have been made by us to all the powers of Europe
according to our instructions, and we are waiting for their
answers. There are apprehensions here of a war between
the Emperor and Holland; but, as the season is not proper
for opening a campaign, I hope the winter will give time for
mediators to accommodate matters. We have not yet heard
that Mr. Jay has accepted the secretaryship of foreign affairs.
I am ever, my dear friend, yours most affectionately,

B. FRANKLIN.

1 From " Diplomatic Revolutionary Correspondence " (Sparks), Vol. II,
p. 518. —ED.

1784] TO W. T. FRANKLIN 277

1538. TO W. T. FRANKLIN (A. p. s.)

Passy, Oct. 18. 1784.

MY DEAR CHILD,

I received yours of the 5th (just after I had sent away
mine of the 2nd). It inclosed one from the good Bishop to
you. I have since receiv'd yours of the 12th. I am glad to
hear that Mr' Hewson resolves to come. My Love to her
and her Children. I consent to your Staying till the End of
the Month, on Condition however of your making a Visit to
Chilbolton and bringing me Word of the Welfare of that dear
Family.1 M. le Veillard mends, but slowly. Our other
Friends are well. We have had a Visit from the Count
d'Oeills. My Love to Mr & M" Sargent, &c. — I have
lately seen in the English Papers an Advertisement of Cast
Iron Tiles for Covering Houses. I wish you would bring me
one as a Sample with the Price, which if I like I shall take
enough to cover my House at Philadelphia, and may intro-
duce the Use of them there. Your last is the 7th that I have
receiv'd from you of the 10 you mention to have written.
I am very well at present but have had some bad Turns lately.
I am ever

Your affectionate Grandfather

B. FRANKLIN.

I am charg'd by several of our

Friends to say mille choses, to you for them.

1 Chilbolton was the home of Jonathan Shipley, "the good Bishop" of St
Asaph. — ED.

278 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1784

1539. TO CHARLES THOMSON (D. s. w.)
Passy, November n, 1784.

DEAR FRIEND,

I received your kind Letter of August 13 with the papers
annexed, relative to the affair of Longchamps. I hope Sat-
isfaction will be given to M. Marbois. The Commissioners
have written a joint Letter to Congress. This serves to cover
a few papers relative to matters with which I was particularly
charged in the Instructions. I shall write to you fully by
the next Opportunity, having now only time to add, that I
am, as ever, yours most affectionately,

B. FRANKLIN.

P. S. I executed the Instructions of October 29, 1783, as
soon as I knew the Commissions for treating with the Emperor,
&c. were issued, which was not till July, 1784. The three
Letters between the Emperor's Minister and me are what
passed on that Occasion.

1540. TO RICHARD BACHE (B. M.)

Passy, Nov. n. 1784

I RECEIVED your Letters of the 28th of August, and loth of
September, with the newspapers by M. Sailly, but they were
very incompleat and broken Sets, many being omitted per-
haps the most material, which is disagreable to me who wish
to be well inform'd of what is doing among you. I was glad
to receive the good Account B & S have given of their
good Treatment of those trifling Correspondents. Your

1784] TO MESSRS. WITAL AND PAUCHE 279

Family having pass'd well thro' the Summer gives me great
pleasure. I still hope to see them before I die. Benny con-
tinues well, and grows amazingly. He is a very sensible and
a very good Lad, and I love him much. I had Thoughts of
bringing him up under his Cousin, and fitting him for Public
Business, thinking he might be of Service hereafter to his
Country ; but being now convinc'd that Service is no Inher-
itance, as the Proverb says, I have determin'd to give him a
Trade that he may have something to depend on, and not be
oblig'd to ask Favours or Offices of anybody. And I flatter
myself he will make his way good in the World with God's
Blessing. He has already begun to learn the business from
Masters who come to my House,1 and is very diligent in work-
ing and quick in learning. He will write by this Opportunity.
I can say nothing certain with respect to my Return at
present. In the Spring I may see clearer. My Malady tho'
it does not permit my using a Carriage, is otherwise tolerable.
I enjoy the Company of my Friends, and pass my time as
well as can be expected for an Exile. My love to Sally and
the Children, from Your Affectionate Father

B. FRANKLIN.

1541. TO MESSRS. WITAL AND PAUCHE * (A. p. s.)

GENTLEMEN Passy, Nov. 15. 1784

I have attentively considered your Project communicated
to me in yours of the 24th past, & of which you desire my
Opinion.

1 A printer and a letter-founder. — F.

2 Booksellers in Neufchatel. Their letter, dated October 24, 1784, is in
A. P. S. — ED.

280 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1784

I have some Doubts whether you will find your Bookselling
and Printing Business sufficiently profitable at first for the
Support of three Families, because the French Language in
which I suppose your Books chiefly are, is not yet much ex-
tended in North America. It is however since the Alliance
with France daily increasing, Schools being established in
all the great Towns for teaching it. But if you can add to
the Sale of Books the different Manufactures of your Coun-
try, and settle such Correspondences before you leave it as
may keep you constantly supply'd with them, it is possible
the Gains may be very considerable.

I inclose a little Pamphlet which will give you some
Information respecting our Country, and if I can be of any
Service to you there it will be a Pleasure to,

Gentlemen,

Your &c.

B. FRANKLIN.

1542. TO DR. BRAV1 (A. p. s.)

k Passy ce 22 Nov.™ '84.

JE suis trop Stranger, Monsieur, a toute dispute sur le
Mesme*risme pour consentir que mon nom paroisse ni directe-

1 In answer to the following letter : —

Paris, le 21 Novembre 1784.

Vous prevoiez, Monsieur, que je vais non pas vous engager a la vengeance
(elle est au-dessous de vous) mais a me permettre de faire connaltre sous vos
auspices 1'orateur Mesmerien, en disant au public ebranle par moi, mais desa-
buse par vous a peu pres ce qui sait :

" Puisque Mesmer ne se donne pas la peine d'ecrire lui meme ses sottises,
le sage Bostonien a le m8me droit, avec cette difference que Mesmer paye
tres cher 1'encre et qu'on la donne cette encore a M'.. Franklin sans interet sans

1784] TO THOMAS JEFFERSON 281

ment ni indirectement ailleurs que dans le Rapport des Com-
missaires au nombre desquels la Majeste* m'avoit nomme'.
J'ai Thonneur d'etre, Monsieur,

Votre tres humble et tres

ob£issant serviteur

B. FRANKLIN.

1543. TO THOMAS JEFFERSON (A. p. s.)

Passy, Nov. 23, 1784.

DEAR SIR,

These People are so accustomed to see every thing done
by solicitation of Interest, or what they call Protection, and
nothing without it, that they hardly conceive it possible to
obtain the Payment even of a just Debt, but by means of
Persons whom they suppose to have Influence enough to
support and enforce their Pretensions. We should naturally
suppose, that the proper time for asking such Aid would be
after a regular Demand, and a Refusal of Justice ; but they
run about to everybody with their Memorials, before they
have even presented their Account to those whom they con-
sider as their Debtors. Thus the Creditors, not only of a
State in America, but even of private Merchants, teize the
Ministers of this Country, as well as those of America here,
with their Petitions and Cases, requesting Assistance and

espoir de salaire, d'aussi bon coeur que Pestime et la veneration dont il est si
digne."

(signed) Brav

Etud-Med*

Chez M. Joliot, Medecin, rue des
Lions S4.. Paul a Paris. — ED.

282 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN" FRANKLIN [1784

Interest to procure attention to their Affairs, when it does not
appear that their Claims have been refused, or even made
where they ought to be made.

I beg leave to refer to you the enclosed Papers, and to
request, that, if you are acquainted with the Affair, and can
give any comfortable Expectation or Counsel to the poor
Man, you would be so good as to furnish me with it, that I
may communicate it to him in my Answer. With great and
sincere Esteem, I am, Sir,

Your Excellency's most obedient

& most humble Servant
B. FRANKLIN.

1544. TO

1784.

I AM glad to hear that your family are safely arrived in
London, and that you propose to bring them here with you.
Your life will be more comfortable.

I thank you much for the translation of the Abbe* de Mably's
letters. The French edition is not yet published here. I
have as yet only had time to run over the translator's preface,
which seems well written. I imagine Mr. Snowden to be a
Presbyterian minister, as I formerly corresponded with one
of that name in Holland, who, I suppose, might be his father.
I have not seen the piece you mention of a Berlin academician.
I should not object to his enjoyment of the discovery he has
made, that despotism in the best possible form of govern-
ment, by his living under it as long as he pleases. For I ad-
mire the decision of his prince in a similar case of a dispute
among his clergy concerning the duration of hell torments.
With great respect, I have the honour to be, etc.,

B. FRANKLIN.

1784] TO SAMUEL JACKSON PRATT 283

1545. TO SAMUEL JACKSON PRATT1

Passy [no date, circa 1784].

SIR : — I should have been flattered exceedingly by Mrs.
Melmoth's showing the least inclination for one of those
portraits,* when Mrs. Izard accepted the other, and should
have presented it to her with the greatest pleasure. She did
not appear to desire it, and I did not presume it of value enough
to be offered. Her quarrel with me on that account is pleas-
ing. The reconciliation, when I can obtain it, will be more
so. At present another lady has put it out of my power to
comply with the terms. M. de Chaumont, at whose pottery
in the country they were made, receiving a request from
Petersburg for one of them, to gratify the curiosity of the
Empress, and having none in town, he got from me the only
one I had left, and has sent it away. But I am promised
another soon, and shall seize the first moment of making my
peace with it. In the meantime, I hope you will intercede
for me, in that heart where I am sure you have interest. Ac-
cept my thanks for the books, from the reading of which I
promise myself a good deal of pleasure. Please to accept
also the trifle inclosed, and believe me with most sincere

esteem, etc.,

B. FRANKLIN.

1 From "The Complete Works of Benjamin Franklin " (Bigelow), Vol. IX,
p. 72. Samuel Jackson Pratt (1749-1814) was a book writer whose hireling
pen seems to have been of some service to Franklin. He wrote under the
pen name of Courtney Melmoth. — ED.

* By NinL — ED.

284 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1785

1546. TO DAVID HARTLEY1

Passy, January 3, 1785.

MY DEAR FRIEND,

I received your kind letter of December ist, from Bath.
I am glad to hear that your good sister is in a fair way towards
recovery; my respects and best wishes attend her.

I communicated your letter to Mr. Jefferson, to remind
him of his promise to communicate to you the intelligence
he might receive from America on the subjects you mention ;
and now, having got back, I shall endeavour to answer the
other parts of it.

What you propose to draw up of your opinions on Ameri-
can negociation, may be of great use, if laid, as you intend,
before administration, in case they seriously intend to enter
on it after the meeting of Parliament ; for I know your ideas
all tend to a good understanding between the two countries
and their common advantage ; and in my mind, too, all self-
ish projects of partial profit are the effects of short-sighted-
ness, they never producing permanent benefits, and are at
length the causes of discord and its consequences, wherein
much more is spent than all the temporary gains amounted to.

I do not know that any one is yet appointed by your court
to treat with us. We some time since acquainted your min-
ister with our powers and disposition to treat, which he
communicated to his court, and received for answer, that his
Majesty's ministers were ready to receive any propositions we
might have to make for the common benefit of both coun-

1 From " The Private Correspondence of Benjamin Franklin," 1818, Vol. II,
p. 423. — ED.

1785] TO DAVID HARTLEY 285

tries, but they thought it more for the honour of both, that
the treaty should not be in a third place. We answered,
that, though we did not see much inconvenience in treating
here, we would, as soon as we had finished some affairs
at present on our hands, wait upon them, if they pleased,
in London. We have since heard nothing.

We have no late accounts from America of any importance.
You know the Congress adjourned the beginning of June
till the beginning of November. And since their meeting
there has been no account of their proceedings. All the
stories in your papers relating to their divisions are fiction as
well as those of the people being discontented with Congres-
sional government. Mr. Jay writes to me, that they were at
no time more happy or more satisfied with their government,
than at present, nor ever enjoyed more tranquillity or pros-
perity. In truth, the freedom of their ports to all nations has
brought in a vast plenty of foreign goods, and occasioned a
demand for their produce, the consequence of which is the
double advantage of buying what they consume cheap, and
selling what they can spare dear.

If we should come to London, I hope it may still be with you
that we are to do business. Our already understanding one
another may save, on many points, a good deal of time in dis-
cussion. But I doubt whether any treaty is intended on your
part, and I fancy we shall not press it. It may perhaps be best
to give both sides time to inquire, and to jeel for the interests
they cannot see. With sincere and great esteem, I am ever,
my dear friend, yours most affectionately,

B. FRANKLIN.

286 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1785

1547. TO RICHARD PRICE1 (M. H. s.)

Passy, Feb. i, 1785.

MY DEAR FRIEND, — I received duly your kind letter of
Oct. 2 1,2 and another before with some of your excellent pam-
phlets of Advice to the United States. My last letters from
America inform me that every thing goes on well there,
that the new elected Congress is met, and consists of very
respectable characters with excellent dispositions; and the
people in general very happy under their new governments.
The last year has been a prosperous one for the country;
the crops plentiful and sold at high prices for exportation,
while all imported goods, from the great plenty, sold low.
This is the happy consequence of our commerce being open
to all the world, and no longer a monopoly to Britain. Your
papers are full of our divisions and distresses, which have
no existence but in the imagination and wishes of English
newswriters and their employers.

I sent you sometime since a little piece intitled, Testament
de M. Fortune* Ricard,8 which exemplifies strongly and
pleasantly your doctrine of the immense powers of compound
interest. I hope you received it. If not, I will send you
another. I send herewith a new work of Mr Necker's on the
Finances of France. You will find good things in it, particu-
larly his chapter on War. I imagine Abbe Morellet may
have sent a copy to Lord Lansdowne. If not, please to com-
municate it. I think I sent you formerly his Conte rendu.

1 The original in the possession of Walter Ashburton in England. — ED.

2 In A.P.S.— ED.

8 By Mathon de la Cour. See letter to Vaughan, April 21, 1785. — ED.

1785] TO JOHN JAY 287

This work makes more talk here than that, tho' that made
abundance. I will not say that the writer thinks higher of
himself and his abilities than they deserve, but I wish for his
own sake that he had kept such sentiments more out of sight.
With unalterable esteem and respect, I am ever, my dear

Friend,

Yours most affectionately,

B. FRANKLIN.

1548. TO JOHN JAY (L.C.)

Passy, Feb. 8, 1785.

DEAR SIR,

I received by the Marquis de la Fayette your kind Letter
of the 1 3th of December. It gave me Pleasure on two Ac-
counts ; as it inf orm'd me of the public Welfare, and that of
your, I may almost say our dear little Family; for, since I
had the Pleasure of their being with me in the same House,
I have ever felt a tender Affection for them, equal I believe
to that of most Fathers.

I did hope to have heard by the last Packet of your having
accepted the Secretaryship of Foreign Affairs, but was dis-
appointed. I write to you now, therefore, only as a private
Friend; yet I may mention respecting Public Affairs, that,
as far as I can perceive, the good Disposition of this Court
towards us continues. I wish I could say as much for the
rest of the European Courts. I think that their desire of being
connected with us by Treaties is of late much abated ; and this
I suppose occasioned by the Pains Britain takes to represent
us everywhere as distracted with Divisions, discontented with
our Governments, the People unwilling to pay Taxes, the

288 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1785

Congress unable to collect them, and many desiring the Res-
toration of the old Government, etc. The English Papers
are full of this Stuff, and their Ministers get it copied into the
foreign Papers. The moving about of the Congress from
Place to Place has also a bad Effect, in giving Colour to the
Reports of their being afraid of the People. I hope they will
soon settle somewhere, and, by the Steadiness and Wisdom
of their Measures, dissipate all those Mists of Misrepresenta-
tion raised by the remaining Malice of ancient Enemies,
and establish our Reputation for national Justice and Pru-
dence as they have done for Courage and Perseverance.

It grieves me that we have not been able to discharge our
first Year's Payment of Interest to this Court, due the begin-
ning of last Month. I hope it will be the only failure, and
that effectual Measures will be taken to be exactly punctual
hereafter. The good Paymaster, says the Proverb, is Lord
o) another man's Purse. The bad one, if he ever has again
Occasion to borrow, must pay dearly for his Carelessness
and Injustice.

You are happy in having got back safe to your Country.
I should be less unhappy, if I could imagine the Delay of
my Conge useful to the States, or in the least degree necessary.
But they have many equally capable of doing all I have to
do here. The new propos'd Treaties are the most impor-
tant Things ; but two can go thro' with them as well as three,
if indeed any are likely to be compleated, which I begin to
doubt, since the new ones make little Progress, and the old
ones, which wanted only the Fiat of Congress, seem now to
be going rather backward; I mean those I had projected
with Denmark and Portugal.

My Grandsons are sensible of the honour of your remem-

1785] TO RICHARD HENRY LEE 289

brance, and present their Respects to you and Mrs. Jay. I
add my best wishes of Health and Happiness to you all,
being with sincere Esteem and Affection, dear Sir, your most
obedient humble servant.

B. FRANKLIN.

1549. TO RICHARD HENRY LEE1

Passy, February 8, 1785.

SIR,

I received by the Marquis de Lafayette the two letters
you did me the honour of writing to me the nth and i4th
of December; the one enclosing a letter from Congress to
the King, the other a resolve of Congress respecting the con-
vention for establishing consuls. The letter was immediately
delivered and well received. The resolve came too late to
suspend signing the convention, it having been done July
last, and a copy sent so long since, that we now expected the
ratification. As that copy seems to have miscarried I now
send another.

I am not informed what objection has arisen in Congress
to the plan sent me. Mr. Jefferson thinks it may have been
to the part which restrained the consuls from all concern in
commerce. That article was omitted, being thought unneces-
sary to be stipulated, since either party would always have
the power of imposing such restraints on its own officers,
whenever it should think fit. I am, however, of opinion that
this or any other reasonable article or alteration may be ob-
tained at the desire of Congress, and established by a supple-
ment.

1 President of Congress. — ED.
VOL. IX — u

290 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1785

Permit me, Sir, to congratulate you on your being called
to the high honour of presiding in our national councils,
and to wish you every felicity, being with the most perfect

esteem, &c.

B. FRANKLIN.

\

1550. TO COMTE DE WINDISCH-GRATZ (A. p. s.)

Passy, le 22 FevF 1785

PAI recu Monsieur, la Lettre infine*ment bonne" te dont
vous m'avez honore le 9 de ce Mois, et Je ne puis qu' approu-
ver PEcrit qui y etait joint : il ne pouvra manquer d'etre
utile. Je m'empresserai de faire passer en Amerique suivant
votre Desir les Exemplaires que vous m'annoncez des qu'ils
me seront parvenus, car jusqu'a present je n'ai recu que
celui qui etait joint a votre Lettre, et pour le quil je vous prie
de recevois mes sinceres Remerciements.

J'ai Fhonneur d'etre avec une respectueuse Consideration,
M. . . . votre

[B. FRANKLIN.]

1551. TO WILLIAM STRAHAN1

Passy, March 5, 1785

DEAR FRIEND : — I received your kind letter by my
grandson. I thank you for the civilities you showed him
when in London.

I hope to get home this ensuing summer. I shall have an

iFrom "The Complete Works of Benjamin Franklin" (Bigelow), Vol. IX,
p. 79. — ED.

1785] TO BENJAMIN VAUGHAN 291

old account to settle then with the family of our friend Hall.
There is a particular article of some importance, about which
we were not agreed, but were to be determined by your opin-
ion. It was the value of a copyright in an established news-
paper, of each of which from eight to ten thousand were
printed. My long absence from that country, and immense
employment the little time I was there, have hitherto pre-
vented the settlement of all the accounts that had been be-
tween us; though we never differed about them, and never
should if that good honest man had continued in being. To
prevent all dispute on the above points with his son, it is
that I now request your decision, which I doubt not will be
satisfactory to us both. With unchangeable esteem, I am
ever, my dear friend,

Yours most affectionately,

B. FRANKLIN.
My respects to Mrs. Strahan.

1552. TO BENJAMIN VAUGHAN (L. c.)

ON THE CRIMINAL LAWS AND THE PRACTICE OF PRIVA-

TEERING

Passy, March 14, 1785.

MY DEAR FRIEND,
Among the Pamphlets you lately sent me was one intitled

1 "The following paper was written in the form of a letter to Mr. Benjamin
Vaughan, and dated at Passy, March I4th, 1785. It first appeared anony-
mously in a small volume published by Sir Samuel Romilly, in the year 1 786,
being OBSERVATIONS on a treatise by Dr. Madan, entitled Thoughts on
Executive Justice. The letter contains remarks on the same publication.
It was communicated by Mr. Vaughan to Sir Samuel Romilly, who printed it

292 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1785

"Thoughts on Executive Justice."1 In return for that, I
send you a French one on the same Subject, Observations
conccrnant V Execution de V Article II. de la Declaration sur
le Vol. They are both address'd to the Judges, but written,
as you will see, in a very different Spirit. The English Author
is for hanging all Thieves. The Frenchman is for propor-
tioning Punishments to Offences.

If we really believe, as we profess to believe, that the Law
of Moses was the Law of God, the Dictate of divine Wisdom,
infinitely superior to human; on what Principles do we or-
dain Death as the Punishment of an Offence, which, accord-
ing to that Law, was only to be punish'd by a Restitution of
Fourfold? To put a man to Death for an Offence which
does not deserve Death, is it not Murder? And, as the
French Writer says, Doit-on punir un delit contre la societe
par un crime contre la nature?2

at the end of his OBSERVATIONS, under the title of A Letter from a Gentle-
man abroad to his Friend in England, and prefixed to it an explanatory
advertisement.

" ' The writer of the foregoing Observations? says he, ' having been favoured
with a copy of the following letter by a friend of his, to whom it was ad-
dressed, thought he should render a very acceptable service to the public by
printing it. At the same time he cannot but feel it incumbent on him to
make some apology for publishing it in the form of an Appendix to a work,
which it very far surpasses in every kind of merit. The truth is, he was not
at liberty to print it any other manner. The simplicity of style and liberality
of thought, which distinguish it, cannot fail of discovering its venerable author
to such as are already acquainted with his valuable writings. To those, who
have not that good fortune, the editor is not permitted to say more, than that it
is the production of one of the best and most eminent men of the present age.'

" This testimony is valuable from such a man as Sir Samuel Romilly. And
indeed the letter may well be classed among the best of the author's writings,
whether regarded as to the vigor and clearness of the style, the benign spirit
it breathes, or its bold defence of the rights of humanity and justice." — S.

1 See letter to Le Veillard, April 15, 1787. — ED.

2 " Ought an offence against society to be punished by a crime against
nature? "

1785] TO BENJAMIN V A UGH AN 293

Superfluous Property is the Creature of Society. Simple
and mild Laws were sufficient to guard the Property that was
merely necessary. The Savage's Bow, his Hatchet, and his
Coat of Skins, were sufficiently secured, without Law, by the
Fear of personal Resentment and Retaliation. When, by
virtue of the first Laws, Part of the Society accumulated
Wealth and grew powerful, they enacted others more severe,
and would protect their Property at the Expence of Hu-
manity. This was abusing their Power, and commencing a
Tyranny. If a Savage, before he enter'd into Society, had
been told, "Your Neighbour by this Means may become
Owner of 100 deer; but if your Brother, or your Son, or your-
self, having no Deer of your own, and being hungry, should
kill one, an infamous Death must be the consequence;" he
would probably have preferr'd his Liberty, and his common
Right of killing any Deer, to all the Advantages of Society
that might be propos'd to him.

That it is better 100 guilty Persons should escape than that
one innocent Person should suffer, is a Maxim that has been
long and generally approved ; never, that I know of, contro-
verted. Even the sanguinary Author of the "Thoughts"
agrees to it, Page 163, adding well, " that the very Thought of
injured Innocence, and much more that of suffering Innocence,
must awaken all our tenderest and most compassionate
Feelings, and at the same time raise our highest Indignation
against the Instruments of it. But," he adds, " there is no
danger of either, from a strict Adherence to the Laws."
Really! Is it then impossible to make an unjust Law?
and if the Law itself be unjust, may it not be the very
"Instrument" which ought to "raise the Author's and every-
body's highest Indignation"? I see, in the last News-

294 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1785

paper from London, that a Woman is capitally convicted at
the Old Bailey, for privately stealing out of a Shop some
Gauze, value 14 Shillings and threepence; is there any
Proportion between the Injury done by a Theft, value 14/3,
and the Punishment of a human Creature, by Death, on a
Gibbet? Might not that Woman, by her Labour, have
made the Reparation ordain'd by God, in paying fourfold?
Is not all Punishment inflicted beyond the Merit of the
Offence, so much Punishment of Innocence? In this light,
how vast is the annual Quantity of not only injured, but
suffering Innocence, in almost all the civilized states of
Europe !

But it seems to have been thought, that this kind of Inno-
cence may be punished by way of preventing Crimes. I have
read, indeed, of a cruel Turk in Barbary, who, whenever he
bought a new Christian Slave, ordered him immediately to
be hung up by the Legs, and to receive an 100 Blows of a
Cudgel on the Soles of his Feet, that the severe Sense of the
Punishment, and Fear of incurring it thereafter, might pre-
vent the Faults that should merit it. Our Author himself
would hardly approve entirely of this Turk's Conduct in the
Government of Slaves; and yet he appears to recommend
something like it for the government of English Subjects,
when he applauds the Reply of Judge Burnet to the convict
Horse-stealer, who, being ask'd what he had to say why
Judgment of Death should not pass against him, and
answering, that it was hard to hang a Man for only stealing a
Horse, was told by the judge, " Man, thou art not to be hang'd
only for stealing, but that Horses may not be stolen."

The man's Answer, if candidly examined, will I imagine
appear reasonable, as founded on the Eternal Principle of

1785] TO BENJAMIN VAUGHAN 295

Justice and Equity, that Punishments should be proportioned
to Offences ; and the judge's Reply brutal and unreasonable,
tho' the Writer " wishes all Judges to carry it with them when-
ever they go the Circuit, and to bear it in their Minds as con-
taining a wise Reason for all the penal Statutes, which they
are called upon to put in Execution. It at once illustrates,"
says he, " the true Grounds and Reasons of all capital Pun-
ishments whatsoever, namely, that every man's Property, as
well as his Life, may be held sacred and inviolate." Is there
then no difference in Value between Property and Life ? If I
think it right, that the Crime of Murder should be punished
with Death, not only as an equal Punishment of the Crime,
but to prevent other Murders, does it follow that I must
approve of inflicting the same Punishment for a little In-
vasion on my Property by Theft ? If I am not myself so bar-
barous, so bloody-minded and revengeful, as to kill a Fellow-
Creature for stealing from me 14/3, how can I approve of a
Law that does it? Montesquieu, who was himself a Judge,
endeavours to impress other Maxims. He must have known
what humane Judges feel on such occasions, and what the
Effect of those Feelings; and, so far from thinking that
severe and excessive Punishments prevent Crimes, he asserts,
as quoted by our French Writer, that

Uatrocite des loix en empeche V execution.

Lorsque la peine est sans mesure, on est sowvent oblige de
lui prejerer Vimpunite.

La cause de tous les reldchemens vient de Vimpunite des
crimes, et non de la moderation des peines.

It is said by those who know Europe generally, that there
are more Thefts committed and punish'd annually in England,
than in all the other Nations put together. If this be so,

296 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1785

there must be a Cause or Causes for such Depravity in your
common People. May not one be the Deficiency of Justice
and Morality in our national Government, manifested in our
oppressive Conduct to Subjects, and unjust wars on our
Neighbours? View the long-persisted in, unjust monopo-
lizing Treatment of Ireland at length acknowledged ! View
the plundering Government exercis'd by your Merchants in
the Indies; the confiscating War made upon the American
Colonies; and, to say nothing of those upon France and
Spain, view the late War upon Holland, which was seen by
impartial Europe in no other Light than that of a War of
Rapine and Pillage; the Hopes of an immense and easy
Prey being its only apparent, and probably its true and real
Motive and Encouragement.

Justice is as strictly due between neighbour Nations as
between neighbour Citizens. A Highwayman is as much a
Robber when he plunders in a Gang, as when single ; and a
Nation that makes an unjust War, is only a great Gang.
After employing your People in robbing the Dutch, is it strange,
that, being put out of that Employ by the Peace, they should
still continue robbing, and rob one another ? Piraterie, as the
French call it, or Privateering, is the universal Bent of the
English Nation, at home and abroad, wherever settled. No
less than 700 Privateers were, it is said, commissioned in the
last War ! These were fitted out by Merchants, to prey upon
other Merchants, who had never done them any Injury. Is
there probably any one of those privateering Merchants of
London, who were so ready to rob the Merchants of Amster-
dam, that would not readily plunder another London Mer-
chant of the next Street, if he could do it with impunity?
The Avidity, the alieni appetens, is the same; it is the Fear

1785] TO BENJAMIN VAUGHAN 297

alone of the Gallows that makes the difference. How then
can a Nation, which, amorg the honestest of its People, has so
many Thieves by Inclination, and whose Government en-
couraged and commissioned no less than 700 Gangs of Rob-
bers ; how can such a Nation have the Face to condemn the
Crime in Individuals, and hang up 20 of them in a Morning?
It naturally puts one hi mind of a Newgate Anecdote. One
of the Prisoners complain'd, that in the Night somebody had
taken his Buckles out of his Shoes; ''What, the Devil !" says
another, "have we then Thieves among us? It must not be
suffered; let us search out the Rogue, and pump him to
death."

There is, however, one late Instance of an English Mer-
chant who will not profit by such ill-gotten Gains. He was,
it seems, part Owner of a Ship, which the other Owners
thought fit to employ as a Letter of Marque, and which took
a Number of French Prizes. The Booty being shar'd, he
has now an Agent here enquiring, by an Advertisement in
the Gazette, for those who suffer'd the Loss, in order to make
them, as far as in him lies, Restitution. This conscientious
Man is a Quaker. The Scotch Presbyterians were formerly as
tender; for there is still extant an Ordinance of the Town-
Council of Edinburgh, made soon after the Reformation,
" forbidding the purchase of Prize Goods, under Pain of losing
the Freedom of the Burgh for ever, with other Punishment at
the Will of the Magistrate; the Practice of making Prizes
being contrary to good Conscience, and the rule of treating
Christian Brethren as we would wish to be treated ; and such
Goods are not to be sold by any godly Men within this Burgh"
The Race of these godly Men in Scotland is probably extinct,
or their Principles abandoned ; since, as far as that Nation had

298 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1785

a Hand in promoting the War against the Colonies, Prizes and
Confiscations are believ'd to have teen a considerable Motive.

It has been for some time a generally receiv'd Opinion,
that a military Man is not to enquire whether a War be just
or unjust; he is to execute his Orders. All Princes who are
disposed to become Tyrants must probably approve of this
Opinion, and be willing to establish it; but is it not a dan-
gerous one ? since, on that Principle, if the Tyrant commands
his Army to attack and destroy, not only an unoffending
Neighbour nation, but even his own Subjects, the Army is
bound to obey. A negro Slave, in our Colonies, being com-
manded by his Master to rob or murder a Neighbour, or do
any other immoral Act, may refuse, and the Magistrate will
protect him in his Refusal. The Slavery then of a Soldier is
worse than that of a Negro ! A conscientious Officer, if not
restrain'd by the Apprehension of its being imputed to another
Cause, may indeed resign, rather than be employ'd in an
unjust War; but the private Men are Slaves for Life; and
they are perhaps incapable of judging for themselves. We
can only lament their Fate, and still more that of a Sailor,
who is often dragg'd by Force from his honest Occupation,
and compelled to imbrue his Hands in, perhaps, innocent
Blood.

But methinks it well behoves Merchants (Men more
enlight'ned by their Education, and perfectly free from any
such Force or Obligation,) to consider well of the justice of a
War, before they voluntarily engage a Gang of Ruffians to
attack their Fellow Merchants of a neighbouring Nation,
to plunder them of their Property, and perhaps ruin them and
their Families, if they yield it ; or to wound, maim, or mur-
der them, if they endeavour to defend it. Yet these Things

1785] TO BENJAMIN VAUGHAN 299

are done by Christian Merchants, whether a War be just or
unjust; and it can hardly be just on both sides. They are
done by English and American Merchants, who, neverthe-
less, complain of private Thefts, and hang by Dozens the
Thieves they have taught by their own Example.

It is high time, for the sake of Humanity, that a Stop be
put to this Enormity. The United States of America, tho'
better situated than any European Nation to make profit by
Privateering (most of the Trade of Europe, with the West
Indies, passing before their doors), are, as far as in them lies,
endeavouring to abolish the Practice, by offering, in all their
Treaties with other Powers, an Article, engaging solemnly,
that, in Case of future War, no Privateer shall be commis-
sion'd on either Side; and that unarm'd Merchant-ships, on
both sides, shall pursue their Voyages unmolested.1 This
will be a happy Improvement of the Law of Nations. The
Humane and the Just cannot but wish general Success to the
Proposition. With unchangeable Esteem and Affection,
I am my dear Friend ever yours,

B. FRANKLIN.

1 This offer having been accepted by the late King of Prussia, a treaty of
amity and commerce was concluded between that monarch and the United
States, containing the following humane, philanthropic article; in the forma-
tion of which Dr. Franklin, as one of the American plenipotentiaries, was
principally concerned, viz.

ART. XXIII.

" If war should arise between the two contracting parties, the merchants
of either country, then residing in the other, shall be allowed to remain nine
months to collect their debts and settle their affairs, and may depart freely,
carrying off all their effects without molestation or hindrance; and all women
and children, scholars of every faculty, cultivators of the earth, artisans, manu-
facturers, and fishermen, unarmed and inhabiting unfortified towns, villages,
or places, and in general all others, whose occupations are for the common
subsistence and benefit of mankind, shall be allowed to continue their respec-
tive employments, and shall not be molested in their persons, nor shall their

3oo THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1785

1553. TO RICHARD PRICE (L. c.)

Passy, March 18, 1785.

DEAR FRIEND,

My nephew, Mr. Williams, will have the honour of deliv-
ering you this line. It is to request from you a List of a few
good Books, to the Value of about Twenty-five Pounds, such
as are most proper to inculcate Principles of sound Religion
and just Government. A New Town in the State of Massa-
chusetts having done me the honour of naming itself after me,
and proposing to build a Steeple to their meeting-house if I
would give them a Bell, I have advis'd the sparing themselves
the Expence of a Steeple, for the present, and that they would
accept of Books instead of a Bell, Sense being preferable to
Sound. These are therefore intended as the Commence-
ment of a little Parochial Library for the Use of a Society of
intelligent, respectable Farmers, such as our Country People
generally consist of. Besides your own Works, I would only
mention, on the Recommendation of my sister, "Stennet's
Discourses on Personal Religion" which may be one Book of
the Number, if you know and approve of it.1

houses and goods be burnt, or otherwise destroyed, nor their fields wasted, by
the armed force of the enemy into whose power, by the events of war, they
may happen to fall ; but, if any thing is necessary to be taken from them for
the use of such armed force, the same shall be paid for at a reasonable price.
And all merchants and trading vessels employed in exchanging the products
of different places, and thereby rendering the necessaries, conveniences, and
comforts of human life more easy to be obtained, and more general, shall be
allowed to pass free and unmolested; and neither of the contracting powers
shall grant or issue any commission to any private armed vessels, empowering
them to take or destroy such trading vessels, or interrupt such commerce." —
\V. T. F.

1 Dr. Price complied with this request in a letter dated June 3d, 1785.
The books were procured and forwarded to the town of Franklin. The

1785] TO WILLIAM CARMICHAEL 301

With the highest Esteem and Respect, I am ever, my dear

Friend, yours most affectionately,

B. FRANKLIN.

1554. TO WILLIAM CARMICHAEL (A. p. s.)

Passy, March 22, 1785.

DEAR SIR,

I received duly your Letter of the 27th past, which gave
me great Pleasure, as the length of time since I had heard
from you made me apprehensive that you might be ill. I
immediately communicated the Papers inclosed with it to
my Colleagues, Messrs. Adams and Jefferson, and we have
had several Meetings on the Barbary Affair. Probably by
next Week's Post we may write fully upon it to you, and to
Morocco.

I am glad you are likely to succeed in obtaining the Liberty
of our silly Countryman.1 The Discipline they have given

Reverend Nathaniel Emmons, clergyman of the parish for which the library
was designed, preached a sermon, in commemoration of this bounty, entitled,
"The Dignity of Man ; a Discourse addressed to the Congregation in Franklin
upon the Occasion of their receiving from Dr. Franklin the Mark of his Re-
spect in a rich Donation of Books, appropriated to the Use of a Parish
Library" It was printed in the year 1787, and the following dedication
was prefixed to it. "To his Excellency Benjamin Franklin, President of the
State of Pennsylvania; the Ornament of Genius, the Patron of Science, and
the Boast of Man; this Discourse is inscribed, with the greatest Deference,
Humility, and Gratitude, by his obliged and most humble Servant, the
Author." The words chosen by the preacher for his text were from the im-
pressive charge of David to Solomon; " Show thyself a A/an" He enlarged
upon the importance of intellectual and moral culture, pointing out the means,
and enforcing the use of them by persuasive arguments. He referred his
hearers to the example of Franklin, as affording a pertinent illustration of the
text, and encouragement to the hopes of all, who would employ their powers
for the attainment of high and useful objects. — S.

1 See letter to Carmichael, October 11,1784, and letter to Jonathan
Williams, April 13, 1785. — ED.

302 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1785

him is, however, not misapply'd. Mr. Grand being now
in Cash, your bills on him for your Salary will be duly hon-
our'd. I mention your drawing on him, because probably
I may not be here, as I expect daily the Permission of Con-
gress to return home, and shall embrace the first Opportunity.
Wherever I am, be assured of the invariable Esteem and
Attachment of, dear Sir, your affectionate friend and humble

Servant

B. FRANKLIN.

1555. TO RICHARD HENRY LEE1

Passy, April 12, 1785.
SIR,

M. de Chaumont, who will have the honour of presenting
this line to your Excellency, is a young gentleman of excellent
character, whose father was one of our most early friends in
this country, which he manifested by crediting us with a thou-
sand barrels of gunpowder and other military stores in 1776,
before we had provided any apparent means of payment. He
has, as I understand, some demands to make on Congress,
the nature of which I am unacquainted with ; but my regard
for the family makes me wish, that they may obtain a speedy
consideration, and such favourable issue as they may appear
to merit.

To this end, I beg leave to recommend him to your coun-
tenance and protection, and am, with great respect, &c.

B. FRANKLIN.

&»•>•- .••• i ,.

1 President of Congress. — ED.

1785] TO JONATHAN WILLIAMS 303

1556. TO JONATHAN WILLIAMS1 (L. c.)

Passy, April 13, 1785

DEAR COUSIN : — I received your letter of December i6th,
relating to Jonas Hartwell. I had before written to our
minister at Madrid, Mr. Carmichael, requesting him to apply
for the release of that man. Enclosed I send his answer,
with copies of other papers relating to the affair. The sim-
pleton will be discharged, perhaps after being a little whipped
for his folly, and that may not be amiss. We have here
another New England man, Thayer,2 formerly a candidate
for the ministry, who converted himself lately at Rome, and
is now preparing a return home for the purpose of converting
his countrymen. Our ancestors from Catholic became first
Church-of- England men, and then refined into Presbyterians.
To change now from Presbyterianism to Popery seems to me
refining backwards, from white sugar to brown.

I have written to Dr. Price, of London, requesting him to
make a choice of proper books to commence a library for
the use of the inhabitants of Franklin. The parcel will be
sent directly from thence.

Jonathan and his family are well. He expects to be with

1 The original letter is in the Maine Historical Society. A letter press
copy with P. S. in pencil is in L. C. The letter is addressed to the Senior
Jonathan Williams of Boston, father of Jonathan Williams, agent at Nantes.

— ED.

2 John Thayer (1755 ?-i8i5), a Protestant clergyman of Boston who joined
the Roman Catholic Church in 1783. See "An Account of the Conversion
of the Rev. Mr. John Thayer, lately a Protestant Minister at Boston in North
America, who embraced the Roman Catholic Religion at Rome, on the 25th
of May, 1783, written by himself." This work was printed in London, re-
printed in America, and translated into French, Spanish, and Italian. — ED.

304 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1785

you soon. I continue very hearty and well, except my
malady of the stone, which, however, is hitherto very toler-
able. My love to cousin Grace, etc., and believe me ever

your affectionate uncle.

B. FRANKLIN.

P. S. April 1 4th. — I send enclosed a bill drawn by
W. Vernon, junior, on his father, for 840 livres, which I
request you would receive and deliver to my sister Mecom.

; ::•.;•.'..:- ;i, \\y .

1557. TO BENJAMIN VAUGHAN (L. c.)

Passy, April 21, 1785.

DEAR FRIEND,

I received your kind letter of the 23d past, by Mr. Perry,1
with the other bottle of Blackrie.2 I thank you much for
your care in sending them. I should have been glad to be
of any use to Mr. Perry; but he had placed his children
before I saw him, and he stayed with me only a few minutes.

We see much in parliamentary proceedings, and in papers
and pamphlets, of the injury the concessions to Ireland will
do to the manufacturers of England, while the people of
England seem to be forgotten, as if quite out of the question.
If the Irish can manufacture cottons, and stuffs, and silks,
and linens, and cutlery, and toys, and books, &c. &c. &c.,

1 This letter is in A. P. S. Mr. Perry was a shipbuilder who, according to
Benjamin Vaughan, possessed " the largest private ship-yard in England or
perhaps in the world, and has had the building of ships of the line sufficient
to form a division in a line of battle, beside forty gun ships & frigates, and
various East Indiamen &c." His business in Paris at this time was the plac-
ing of his two sons for a few months in France for their improvement. — ED.

2 Blackrie's Solvent, a remedy for the stone. — ED.

1785] TO BENJAMIN VAUGHAN 305

so as to sell them cheaper in England than the manufac-
turers of England sell them, is not this good for the people of
England, who are not manufacturers ? And will not even the
manufacturers themselves share the benefit ? Since if cottons
are cheaper, all the other manufacturers who wear cottons
will save in that article ; and so of the rest. If books can be
had much cheaper from Ireland, (which I believe, for I
bought Blackstone there for twenty-four shillings, when it
was sold in England at four guineas,) is not this an advantage,
not to English booksellers, indeed, but to English readers, and
to learning? And of all the complainants, perhaps these
booksellers are least worthy of consideration. The cata-
logue you last sent me amazes me by the high prices (said to
be the lowest) affixed to each article. And one can scarce
see a new book, without observing the excessive artifices made
use of to puff up a paper of verses into a pamphlet, a
pamphlet into an octavo, and an octavo into a quarto, with
scabboardings, white-lines, sparse titles of chapters, and
exorbitant margins, to such a degree, that the selling of paper
seems now the object, and printing on it only the pretence. I
enclose the copy of a page in a late comedy. Between every
two lines there is a white space equal to another line. You
have a law, I think, against butchers blowing of veal to make
it look fatter; why not one against booksellers' blowing of
books to make them look bigger. All this to yourself; you
can easily guess the reason.

My grandson is a little indisposed, but sends you two
pamphlets, Figaro, and Le Roy Voyageur. The first is a play
of Beaumarchais, which has had a great run here. The
other a representation of all the supposed errors of govern-
ment in this country, some of which are probably exag-

VOL. IX — X

306 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1785

gerated. It is not publicly sold; we shall send some more
shortly.

Please to remember me very respectfully and affectionately
to good Dr. Price. I am glad that he has printed a transla-
tion of the Testament,1 it may do good. I am ever, my
dear friend, yours most sincerely,

B. FRANKLIN.

Enclosed, in the foregoing Letter.

"SCENE IV.
Sir JOHN and WILDMORE.

Sir JOHN.
Whither so fast?

WILDMORE.
To the Opera.

Sir JOHN.
It is not the ?

WILDMORE.

Yes it is.

Sir JOHN.
Never on a Sunday.

WILDMORE.
Is this Sunday?

Sir JOHN.

Yes sure.

WILDMORE.

I remember nothing; I shall soon forget my Christian
name."

If this page was printed running on like Erasmus's Collo-
quies, it would not have made more than five lines.

1 See letter to Price, Feb. i, 1785. — ED.

1785] TO JAN INGENHOUSZ 307

1558. TO ANTOINE-ALEXIS-FRANfOIS CADET
DE VAUX1

Passy, April 28, 1785.

Bra : — I return your paper relating to mais,3 which I have
perused with pleasure. I am glad to learn that good beer
may be made of it, which is new to me. I send herewith
some observations on the use of that grain, of which you are
at liberty to make such as you may think proper. Your
Patisseur has done wonders ; I am delighted with his produc-
tions, and shall wish to take a quantity of them with me to
eat at sea.

With great esteem, etc.,

B. FRANKLIN.

1559. TO JAN INGENHOUSZ (L. c.)

Passy, April 29, 1785.
MY DEAR DEAR FRIEND,

I believe my last Letter to you was of May 16, 1 783.* I am
therefore much in your Debt as a Correspondent. I have now
before me all your Letters since received, and shall endeav-
our as well as I can to answer them. I confess that a Man,
who can leave so many Letters so long unanswer'd, does not
deserve so valuable a Correspondence as yours. But I am

1 Cadet De Vaux (1743-1828), a distinguished chemist. He founded the
Journal de Paris . Printed from "The Complete Works of Benjamin
Franklin " (Bigelow), Vol. IX, p. 99. — ED.

8 Sent April 24, 1785, to Franklin (A. P. S.). The paper was intended for
publication in the Journal de Paris. — ED.

* See letter to Ingenhousz, January 16, 1784. — ED.

3o8 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1785

grown very old, being now in my 8oth year ; I am engag'd in
much Business that must not be neglected. Writing becomes
more and more irksome to me ; I grow more indolent ; Philo-
sophic Discussions, not being urgent like Business, are post-
poned from time to time till they are forgotten. Besides, I
have been these 20 Months past afflicted with the Stone,
which is always giving me more or less Uneasiness, unless
when I am laid in Bed ; and, when I would write, it interrupts
my Train of Thinking, so that I lay down my Pen, and seek
some light Amusement.

I hope Mr. Weinbrenner's Agent succeeded in his Voyage
to America. Too much Goods have been sent there since
the Peace from all Parts of Europe which has overstock'd
the Market and made the Prices so low as to afford but little
Profit & sometimes none to the Adventurers. Time and
Experience will bring the Commerce into a more regular
Train.

I consent to your request concerning my Paper on the
Weathercock struck by Lightning. Dispose of it as you
please.

You will find an Ace* of the first great Stroke I received,
in pages 161, 162, of my Book, 5th Edition, 1774. The
second I will now give you. I had a Paralytick Patient in
my Chamber, whose Friends brought him to receive some
Electric Shocks. I made them join Hands so as to receive
the Shock at the same time, and I charg'd two large Jars to
give it. By the Number of those People, I was oblig'd to
quit my usual Standing, and plac'd myself inadvertently under
an Iron Hook which hung from the Cieling down to within
two Inches of my Head, and communicated by a Wire with
the outside of the Jars. I attempted to discharge them, and

1785] TO JAN INGENHOUSZ 309

in fact did so ; but I did not perceive it, tho' the charge went
thro' me, and not through the Persons I entended it for. I
neither saw the Flash, heard the Report, nor felt the Stroke.
When my Senses returned, I found myself on the Floor. I got
up, not knowing how that had happened. I then again
attempted to discharge the Jars; but one of the Company
told me they were already discharg'd, which I could not at
first believe, but on Trial found it true. They told me they
had not felt it, but they saw I was knock'd down by it,
which had greatly surprised them. On recollecting myself,
and examining my Situation, I found the Case clear. A
small swelling rose on the Top of my Head, which continued
sore for some Days ; but I do not remember any other Effect
good or bad.

The Stroke you received, and its Consequences, are much
more curious. I communicated that Part of your Letter to an
Operator, encourag'd by Government here to electrify epi-
leptic and other poor Patients, and ad vis' d his trying the
Practice on mad People according to your Opinion. I have
not heard whether he has done it.

It is so long since you wrote the Letters I am answering
that I am apprehensive you may have forgotten some of the
Particulars, and that thereby my Answers may be unin-
telligible. I therefore mark the Dates of your Letters in the
Margin, that if you kept Copies you may recur to them.

Lady Dowager Perm * was here about the Time of the
Treaty, and made Application to me with great Complaints,
but I found she was not well inform'd of the State of her
Affairs, and could not clearly show that she had suffer'd any

1 Lady Juliana Fennor, daughter of the Earl of Pomfret, married to Thomas
Penn in 1751. — ED.

310 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1785

Injury from the Publick of Pennsylvania, whatever she might
from the Agents of the Family. Her Husband's Lands, I
understand, were not confiscated as represented; but the
Proprietary Government falling with that of the Crown, the
Assembly took the Opportunity of insisting upon Justice in
some Points, which they could never obtain under that Gov-
ernment. A kind of Compromise then was made between the
Assembly & the Family, whereby all the vacant Lots and
unappropriated wilderness Lands were to be thenceforth in
the Disposition of the Assembly, who were to pay £130,000
Sterling to the Family within 3 Years after the Peace, all
other Demands on both sides being thus abolished. I am
told that this Arrangement was satisfactory to most of them.
But as the Lady intended to send her Son over to solicit her
Interests, I gave him a Letter of Recommendation to the
Governor, proposing it for Consideration whether it might
not be adviseable to reconsider the Matter, and if the sum of
£130,000 should be found insufficient, to make a proper
Addition. I have not heard what has since been done in the
Affair, or whether any thing. In my own Judgment, when I
consider that for near 80 Years, viz., from the Year 1700,
William Penn and his Sons receiv'd the Quit-rents which were
originally granted for the Support of Government, and yet
refused to support the Government, obliging the People to
make a fresh Provision for its Support all that Time, which
cost them vast Sums, as the most necessary Laws were not to
be obtain'd but at the Price of making such Provision ; when
I consider the Meanness and cruel Avarice of the late Pro-
prietor, in refusing for several Years of War, to consent to
any Defence of the Frontiers ravaged all the while by the
Enemy, unless his Estate should be exempted from paying

1785] . TO JAN INGENHOUSZ 311

any Part of the Expence, not to mention other Atrocities too
long for this Letter, I cannot but think the Family well off,
and that it will be prudent in them to take the Money and be
quiet. William Penn, the First Proprietor, Father of Thomas,
the Husband of the present Dowager, was a wise and good
Man, and as honest to the People as the extream Distress of
his Circumstances would permit him to be, but the said
Thomas was a miserable Churl, always intent upon Griping
and Saving ; and whatever Good the Father may have done
for the Province was amply undone by the Mischief receiv'd
from the Son, who never did any thing that had the Appear-
ance of Generosity or Public Spirit but what was extorted
from him by Solicitation and the Shame of Backwardness in
Benefits evidently incumbent on him to promote, and which
was done at last in the most ungracious manner possible. The
Lady's Complaints of not duly receiving her Revenues from
America are habitual; they were the same during all the
Time of my long Residence in London, being then made by
her Husband as Excuses for the Meanness of his House-
keeping and his Deficiency in Hospitality, tho' I knew at the
same time that he was then in full Receipt of vast Sums
annually by the Sale of Lands, Interest of Money, and Quit-
rents. But probably he might conceal this from his Lady
to induce greater Economy as it is known that he ordered no
more of his Income home than was absolutely necessary for
his Subsistence, but plac'd it at Interest in Pennsylvania &
the Jerseys, where he could have 6 and 7 per Cent., while
Money bore no more than 5 per cent, in England. I us'd
often to hear of these Complaints and laugh at them, per-
ceiving clearly their Motive. They serv'd him on other as
well as on domestic Occasions. You remember our Rector

3i2 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1785

of St. Martin's Parish, Dr. Saunders. He once went about,
during a long and severe Frost, soliciting charitable Con-
tributions to purchase Coals for poor Families. He came
among others to me, and I gave him something. It was but
little, very little, and yet it occasion'd him to remark, "You
are more bountiful on this Occasion than your wealthy
Proprietary, Mr. Penn, but he tells me he is distress'd by not
receiving his Incomes from America." The Incomes of the
family there must still be very great, for they have a Number
of Manors consisting of the best Lands, which are preserved
to them, and vast Sums at Interest well secur'd by Mortgages;
so that if the Dowager does not receive her Proportion, there
must be some Fault in her Agents. You will perceive by the
length of this Article that I have been a little echaufit by her
making the Complaints you mention to the Princess Dow-
ager of Lichtenstein at Vienna. The Lady herself is good &
amiable, and I should be glad to serve her in any thing just
and reasonable ; but I do not at present see that I can do
more than I have done.

As to Wharton, I am amaz'd at his Conduct towards you.
Dr Bancroft tells me, that he believes your Money is spent,
& that Wharton has it not at present to pay : But that he has
Lands, & enjoys a profitable Office; so that he has hopes,
that he may pay in time. In my Opinion, you would do well
to make the Voyage, and when there you may at least obtain
some Land. The Emperor will be good enough to give
you leave to accompany your old Friend. I purpose return-
ing to America in the ensuing summer, and shall be happy to
have your Company. But if this cannot be, send me your
Power of Attorney or Procuration with what Proofs you have
of the Debt, and I will do my best Endeavours when there
to recover it for you.

Louis XVI AND BENJAMIN FRANKLIN.

From a statuette, formerly at Champlost and now in the possession of Miss Sophia
Irwin, a descendant of Benjamin Franklin.

1785] TO JAN INGENHOUSZ 313

Your Ideas of the long Conservation possible of the Infec-
tion of some Diseases, appear to me well-founded. I heard
in England of one Instance. In a Country Village where the
Small Pox had not been for 30 Years, a Grave was opened for
the Interment of a Person dead of some common Distemper,
whose Funeral was accompanied by most of the Inhabitants
of the Village. The Grave digger, had in his Operation broke
the Coffin of a neighbouring Corpse which had dy'd of the
Small Pox thirty years before. Those who attended the
Ceremony of the Interment were sensible of a bad Smell
issuing from the Grave, and after some Days were all taken
down with that Distemper. You may yourself remember a
stronger Instance. It happen'd during my Absence from
England between August 1762 and December 1764, and
therefore I may not be perfect in the Circumstances. A
Number of Physicians, as I heard, amus'd themselves with
the Dissection of an Egyptian Mummy, which must have
been more than Two Thousand Years old, and several of
them dyd soon after of putrid Fevers, suspected to be caught
at that Dissection.

The Circumstances of the Royalists in the United States
are daily mending, as the Minds of People irritated by the
Burning of their Towns and Massacre of their Friends, begin
to cool. A Stop is put to all Prosecutions against them, and
in time their Offences will be forgotten. By our last Ad-
vices from thence the Government acquires continually more
Consistence, and every thing is getting into the best Order.
The English still misrepresent us and our Situation : relating
things as they wish them rather than as they are. But be
assured our People are happy in the Change, & have not the
least Inclination to return to the Dominion of Britain.

3I4 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1785

{Letter of Sept. i. 83.] I immediately sent to Mr. Bartram
our celebrated Botanist of Pennsylvania, the Orders of Count
Chotck for a quantity of American Seeds. It came so late to
me, that it was impossible it should arrive there in time to
make the Collection of Seeds of the Year 1783, conse-
quently it would be necessary to wait for those that would be
ripe in the Autumn of 1784. But having then in hand a Box
of Seeds obtain'd from him at the Request of some Friends
here ; I divided them, and Sent you some of each Sort. I
delivered them to the Bishop Nekrep, who said he had a good
Opportunity of forwarding them, and that he would do it
with Pleasure. I thought you might oblige your Friend the
Count with those for the present, as they would be in time
for Planting in the Spring of 1784. But I never heard
whether you receiv'd them. I had a Letter last Winter from
my Son-in-law, Mr Bache, acquainting me that Mr. Bartram
had brought the box of Seeds to him, which he should pay for;
but that he was uncertain whether he ought to send it by way
of Holland as ordered, the Newspapers having announced
a War between the Emperor and that State, which might
obstruct its passage to Vienna. I wrote to him in answer,
that he should nevertheless comply with the Order, and
immediately, lest the Seeds should arrive too late for plant-
ing this Season, so that I hope they may be now in Holland,
tho' I have heard nothing further. I enclose a Copy of the
List of those sent you, except some Deficiencys.

[Letter o) Nov. 19. 83.] I thank you much for your good
Wishes of Repose and Tranquility for me in my latter Years,
and for your kind invitation to come and see you at Vienna.
I have sufficient Inclination but my Malady the Stone, which
for 20 Months past has disabled me from using a Carriage,

1785] TO JAN INGENHOUSZ 315

is an insuperable Obstruction to such a Journey. I know we
should be happy together, and therefore repeat my Proposition
that you should ask Leave of the Emperor to let you come
and live with me during the little Remainder of Life that
is left me. I am confident his Goodness would grant your
Request. You will be at no expence while with me in
America; you will recover your Debt from Wharton, and
you will make me happy. I am glad you received the Bill
of 8000 Livres from him, which went thro' my Hands. I
wish your Application of it in an East Indian Adventure
may be more advantagious to you than your Adventure to
the West.

I know not the Situation here of your Book, as I rarely see
M. le Begue, he living much in the Country : but I am sorry
for your sake as well as that of the Publick, that its Publica-
tion is so long delay 'd.

As soon as I return to Philadelphia, I shall procure your
Election as a Member of our Philosophical Society. I do not
know any Choice that will do them more Honour.

As the American Newspapers seem to afford you Pleasure, I
have sent you some more by the Baron de Windischgratz, who
was so kind as to undertake the forwarding them to you. I
gave him also two little Pieces of my Writing.

[Letter of Jan. 2. 84.} I imagine that I did answer this
Letter before, tho' I find no Note of such Answer. I think
I dissuaded you from being concern'd in any Project for rais-
ing a Balloon as if it should happen by any Accident not
succeed, it might expose you to Ridicule, & hurt your Repu-
tation. I was glad to hear that you declin'd it.

[Letter of Jan. 14. 84.] I receiv'd this Letter, said to be
sent by the Countess de Fries. I should have been glad

3i6 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1785

of any Opportunity of showing Civility to a Friend of yours,
and of so amiable a Character.

[Letter of Feb. 10. 84.] The Prelate of Nekrep appeared a
very good sort of Man. I show'd him all the Respect in my
Power. I think I must have written to you by him, but I do
not find any Copy of the Letter, and remember nothing of
the Contents. My Memory is indeed sensibly impaired. I
was sorry to hear of his Death.

I do not know that my Contrivance of a Clock with 3 Wheels
only, which show'd Hours, Minutes and Seconds, has ever
been publish'd. I have seen several of them here at Paris
that were made by Mr. Whitehurst, and sent over I believe
by Mr. Magellan. You are welcome to do what you please
with it. Mr. Whitehurst's Invention is very simple, and
should be very effectual, provided the foot of the Rod and the
Situation of the Clock are invariably fix'd, so as never to be at
a greater or less Distance from one another, which may be
by fixing both in a strait-grain'd Piece of Wood of about 4
feet long; Wood not changing its Dimensions the length way
of the Grain, by any common degree of Heat or Cold. But
this cannot be trusted to the Wood of a Clock- Case, because
in Sawing Boards the Grain is frequently cross'd, and Mois-
ture and Dryness will change their Dimensions.

You are at liberty also to publish if you think fit the Ex-
periment of the Globe floating between two Liquors. I sup-
pose you remember to have seen it on my Chimney-piece.
Tho' it is a matter of no Utility. Something of the same
nature has been done more than 100 Years since by another
Person, I forget who.

What I formerly mention'd to you of hanging a Weight on
a spiral Spring, to discover if Bodies gravitated differently

1785] TO JAN INGENHOUSZ 317

to the Earth during the Conjunctions of the Sun and Moon,
compar'd with other Times, was this. We suppose, that, by
the Force of Gravity in those Luminaries, the Water of the
Ocean, an immense Weight, is elevated so as to form the
Tides; if that be so, might we not expect, that an iron Ball
of a pound suspended by a fine spiral Spring, should, when
the Sun and Moon are together both above it, be a little at-
tracted upwards or rendered lighter, so as to be drawn up
a little by the Spring on which it depends, and the contrary
when they are both below it. The Quantity, tho' very small,
might perhaps be rendred visible by a Contrivance like the
above. It is not difficult to make this Experiment, but I have
never made it. With regard to the Tides, I doubt the Opin-
ion of there being but two High Waters and two Low Waters
existing at the same time on the Globe. I rather think there
are many, and those at the Distance of about 100 Leagues
from each other. The Tides found in the River Amazones
seem to favour this Opinion. Observations hereafter in the
Isles of the Pacific Ocean may confirm or refute it.

If I were in a Situation where I could be a little more Master
of my Time, I would as you desire, write my Ideas on the
Subject of Chimneys. They might I think be useful. For
by what I see everywhere the Subject seems too little under-
stood, which occasions much Inconvenience & fruitless
Expence. But besides being harass'd with too much Business,
I am expos'd to numberless Visits, some of Kindness and
Civility, many of mere idle Curiosity, from Strangers of
America & of different Parts of Europe, as well as the In-
habitants of the Provinces who come to Paris. These devour
my Hours, and break my Attention, and at Night I often
find myself fatigu'd without having done any thing. Celebrity

3i8 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1785

may for a while flatter one's Vanity, but its Effects are
troublesome. I have begun to write two or three Things,
which I wish to finish before I die; but I sometimes doubt
the possibility.

I thank you much for the Postscript respecting my Dis-
order, the Stone. I have taken heretofore, and am now
again taking the Remedy you mention, which is called
Blackrie's Solvent. It is the Soap Lie, with Lime Water, and
I believe it may have some Effect in diminishing the Symp-
toms, and preventing the Growth of the Stone, which is all
I expect from it. It does not hurt my Appetite ; I sleep well,
and enjoy my Friends in chearful Conversation as usual.
But, as I cannot use much Exercise, I eat more sparingly than
formerly, and I drink no Wine.

I admire that you should be so timid in asking Leave of
your good imperial Master to make a Journey for visiting
a Friend. I am persuaded you would succeed, and I hope
the Proposition I have made you in this Letter will assist
your Courage, and enable you to ask and obtain. If you
come here soon, you may when present get your Book fin-
ish'd, and be ready to proceed with me to America. While
writing this, I have receiv'd from Congress my Leave to re-
turn ; and I believe I shall be ready to embark by the middle
of July, at farthest. I shall now be free of Politicks for the
Rest of my Life. Welcome again my dear Philosophical
Amusements.

I see by a full Page of your Letter, that you have been pos-
sess'd with strange Ideas of America ; that there is no Jus-
tice to be obtained there, no Recovery of Debts, Projects of
Insurrection to overturn the present Government, &c. &c. ;
that a Virginia Colonel Nephew of the Governor had cheated

1785] TO JAN INGENHOUSZ 319

a Stranger of 100,000 Livres, and that somebody was im-
prisoned for only speaking of it ; that Dr Bancroft was afraid
of Mr. Wharton's Power, and the like very improbable Stories.
As to Dr. Bancroft he gave me no such Reason for not recov-
ering his Money, nor any other but Wharton's present In-
ability; and for the rest believe me they are all Fictions or
Misrepresentations. If they were Truths, all Strangers
would avoid such a Country, and foreign Merchants would
as soon carry their Goods to sell in Newgate as to America.
Think a little on the Sums England has spent to preserve a
Monopoly of the Trade of that People, with whom they had
long been acquainted, and of the Desire all Europe is now
manifesting to obtain a Share of that Trade. Our Ports
are full of their Ships, their Merchants buying and selling in
our Streets continually, and returning with our Products.
Would this happen? Could such Commerce be continu'd
with us, if we were such a Collection of Scoundrels and Villains
as we have been represented to you? And Insurrections
against our Rulers are not only unlikely, as the Rulers are
the Choice of the People, but unnecessary; as, if not lik'd,
they may be chang'd annually by the new Elections.

I own you have Cause, great Cause to complain of Wharton,
but you are wrong to condemn a whole Country by a single
Sample. I have seen many Countries, & I do not know a
Country in the World in which Justice is so well administ'red,
where Protection and Favour have so little Power to impede
its Operations, and where Debts are recovered with so much
Facility. If I thought it such a Country as it has been
painted to you, I should certainly never return to it. The
Truth I believe is, that more Goods have been carried thither
from all Parts of Europe, than the Consumption of the Coun-

320 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1785

try requires, & it is natural that some of the Adventurers
are willing to discourage others from following them, lest
the Prices should still be kept down by the Arrival of fresh
Cargoes; and it is not unlikely, that some negligent or un-
faithful Factors sent thither, may have given such Accounts
to excuse their not making Remittances. And the English
magnify all this, and spread it abroad in their Papers, to
dissuade Foreigners from attempting to interfere with them
in their Commerce with us.

Your Account of the Emperor's condescending Conver-
sation with you concerning me, is pleasing. I respect very
much the Character of that Monarch, and think, that, if
I were one of his Subjects, he would find me a good One. I
am glad that his Difference with your Country is likely to
be accommodated without Bloodshed. The Courier de
VEurope, and some other Papers, printed a Letter on that
Difference, which they ascrib'd to me. Be assured my
Friend that I never wrote it, nor was ever presumptuous
enough to meddle with an Affair so much out of my way.

All the Letters you at any time enclos'd to me have been
faithfully forwarded. I obtained from Mr. Williams an
Answer which I enclose. I am asham'd I have kept it so
long ; but I had put it among your Letters, intending to send
it with the first I should write to you, and that has been too
long delay 'd.

Mesmer continues here and has still some Adherents and
some Practice. It is surprizing how much Credulity still
subsists in the World. I suppose all the Physicians in
France put together have not made so much Money during
the Time he has been here, as he has done. And we have
now a fresh Folly. A Magnetiser pretends that he can by

1785] TO COMTE DE VERGENNES 321

establishing what is called a Rapport between any Person
and a Somnambule, put it in the Power of that Person to
direct the Actions of the Somnambule, by a simple strong
Volition only, without Speaking or making any Signs; and
many People daily flock to see this strange Operation !

Your last did not reach me till long after its Date. I have
spent some Days in writing this. It is now the 2d of May, and
I shall not be able to forward it till by Thursday's Post, the
5th Instant. If in the meantime I can learn anything respect-
ing the Publication of your Book I will add it in a Postscript.
Rejoice with me, my dear Friend, that I am once more a
Freeman : after Fifty Years Service in Public Affairs. And
let me know soon if you will make me happy the little Re-
mainder left me of my Life, by spending the Time with me
in America.

I have Instruments if the Enemy did not destroy them
all, and we will make Plenty of Experiments together.
Believe me ever,

Yours most affectionately

B. F.

1560. TO COMTE DE VERGENNES (L. c.)

Passy, May 3, 1785.

SIR,

I have the honour to acquaint your Excellency, that I
have at length obtain'd, and yesterday receiv'd, the Permis-
sion of Congress to return to America. As my Malady
makes it impracticable for me to pay my Devoirs at Ver-
sailles personally, may I beg the favour of you, Sir, to express
respectfully for me to his Majesty, the deep Sense I have of

VOL. IX — Y

322 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1785

all the inestimable Benefits his Goodness has conferr'd on
my Country ; a Sentiment that it will be the Business of the
little Remainder of Life now left me, to impress equally on
the Minds of all my Countrymen. My sincere Prayers are,
that God may shower down his Blessings on the King, the
Queen, their Children, and all the royal Family to the latest
Generations !

Permit me, at the same time, to offer you my thankful
Acknowledgments for the Protection and Countenance you
afforded me at my Arrival, and your many Favours during
my Residence here, of which I shall always retain the most
grateful Remembrance. My Grandson would have had the
honour of waiting on you with this Letter, but he has been
some time ill of a Fever.

With the greatest Esteem and Respect, and best Wishes
for the constant Prosperity of yourself, and all your amiable
family, I am, Sir, your Excellency's most obedient and most

humble servant,

B. FRANKLIN.

1561. TO MRS. MARY HEWSON1 (P. c.)

Passy, May 5, 1785.
MY DEAR, DEAR FRIEND,

I receiv'd your little Letter from Dover, which gave me
great Pleasure, as it inform'd me of your happy Progress so
far in your way home. I hope the rest of your Journey was
as prosperous.2

You talk of Obligations to me, when in fact I am the

1 From the original in the possession of T. Hewson Bradford, M.D. — ED.

2 Mrs. Hewson and her children had spent the winter with Dr. Franklin
at Passy. — ED.

1785] TO MRS. MARY HEWSON 323

Person oblig'd. I pass'd a long Winter, in a manner that made
it appear the shortest of any I ever past. Such is the Effect
of pleasing Society, with Friends one loves.

I have now receiv'd my Permission to return, and am
making my Preparations. I hope to get away in June. I
promise myself, or rather flatter myself, that I shall be happy
when at home. But, however happy that Circumstance may
make me, your joining me there will surely make me happier,
provided your Change of Country may be for the advantage
of your dear little Family. When you have made up your
Mind on the Subject, let me know by a Line, that I may pre-
pare a House for you as near me, and otherwise as convenient
for you, as possible.

My Neighbours begin to come out from Paris, and replace
themselves in their Passy Houses. They enquire after you,
and are sorry you are gone before they could make themselves
known to you. For those who did know you speak well of
you. M. le Veillard, in particular, has told me at different
times, what indeed I knew long since, C'est une bien digne
Femme, cette Madame Hewson, une trts aimable Femme.
I would not tell you this if I thought it would make you
vain — er than you are ; but that is impossible ; you have
too much good Sense.

So wish me a good Voyage, and, when you pray at Church
for all that travel by Land or Sea, think of your ever affec-
tionate Friend,

B. FRANKLIN.

P. S. My love to William, and Thomas, and Eliza, and
tell them I miss their chearful Prattle. Temple being sick,
and Benjamin at Paris, I have found it very triste breakfasting
alone, and sitting alone, and without any Tea in the Evening.

324 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1785

1562. TO JONATHAN WILLIAMS1 (P. c.)

Passy May 5. 1785
DEAR JONATHAN

I wrote you some Days since, and enclos'd you several
Letters I had received respecting your Affairs. Enclos'd
is another which came to hand this Morning. You will let
me know what I should say to this Man. He has shown me
a Letter of yours ordering the Goods and undertaking to
pay for them.

I have at length received my long-expected Permission to
return to America, and I am preparing for my Departure,
tho' I have not yet determined how I shall go. It is now
said that the May Packet is the last to go from L' Orient,
and that the June Packet and all succeeding ones are to go
from Havre. I incline (if this is true, and no better means
offers) to go in the June Packet. But there is a Mr. Ger-
vaise from Boston who tells me that a fine new Ship of Peck's
Construction, 400 Tons Burthen will sail from Holland for
Boston in July; and that he has no doubt the Captain will
be prevail'd on to call for me and my Family at Havre, to
which Place I can go by Water ; and that he will talk with
the Captain on the Subject as soon as he arrives in Holland,
which will be in a few Days and write me Word whether he
will undertake it and on what Terms.

I have indeed no great Objection to landing in Boston,
as tho' there will then be another Voyage to get home, I
shall have the Pleasure of seeing Friends once more, whom
otherwise I may never see. But as this Project may not

1 From the original in the possession of Louis A. Biddle, Esq. — ED.

1785] TO JOHN JAY 325

answer I wish you would enquire and inform me whether
there are any good Vessels bound from London to Boston,
N. York, or Philadelphia or Baltimore to sail in June, that
would take us at Havre. I shall need the most comfortable
Accommodation the Ship can afford, being so old and infirm,
and I expect to pay accordingly. There will be myself and
two Grandsons at least, perhaps another Person, and two
Servants. I shall have also with me four [mutilated] Tons
perhaps of Goods. And if it will suit [mutilated] to go with
us so much the better. The sooner you give me the Infor-
mation you can collect the more satisfactory it will be, as
it will enable me sooner to make my Determination. As to
Mrs. Hewson's Family I know not yet whether she ever in-
tends going to America but as she intends a Journey to York-
shire, it is not probable she can make the American Voyage
this Summer. Billy is better and sends his Love. I am ever

Your affectionate Uncle
B. FRANKLIN.

1563. TO JOHN JAY1 (L.C.)

Passy, May 10, 1785.

DEAR SIR,

I received your kind Letter of the 8th of March, enclosing
the Resolution of Congress, permitting my Return to America,
for which I am very thankful, and am now preparing to
depart the first good Opportunity. Next to the Pleasure of
rejoining my own Family will be that of seeing you and yours
well and happy, and embracing once more my little Friend,
whose singular Attachment to me I shall always remember.

1 Mr. Jay was at this time Secretary of Foreign Affairs, having been chosen
as successor to Mr. Livingston, who had resigned. — ED.

326 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1785

I shall be glad to render any acceptable Service to Mr.
Randall.1 I convey'd the Bayberry Wax to Abbe* de Chalut,
with your Compliments, as you desired. He returns his with
many Thanks. Be pleased to make my respectfull Compli-
ments acceptable to Mrs. Jay, and believe me ever, with
sincere and great Respect and Esteem, &c.

B. FRANKLIN.

1564. TO CHARLES THOMSON (L. c.)

Passy, May 10, 1785.

DEAR SIR,

An old Gentleman in Switzerland, long of the Magistracy
there, having written a book intitled Dn Gouvernement des
Mceurs,2 which is thought to contain many Matters, that may
be useful in America, desired to know of me how he could
convey a Number of the printed Copies, to be distributed
gratis among the Members of Congress. I advis'd his ad-
dressing the Package to you by way of Amsterdam, whence
a Friend of mine would forward it. It is accordingly shipt
there on board the Van Berckel, Capt. W. Campbell mark'd
[x]. N° 990. There are good Things in the Work, but his
Chapter on the Liberty of the Press appears to me to contain
more Rhetorick than Reason. With great Esteem, I am
ever, Dear Sir,

Yours Affectionately

B. FRANKLIN.

1 Paul Randall, son of a merchant of New York. — ED.

2 By Pollier, published at Lausanne, 1 784. — ED.

1785] TO MR. AND MRS. RICHARD BACHE 327

1565. TO MR. AND MRS. RICHARD BACHE (L. c.)

Passy, May 10, 1785.

DEAR SON AND DAUGHTER : — Having at length received
from Congress Permission to return home, I am now pre-
paring for my departure, and hope to get away by the Middle
of next Month, or the End at farthest, tho' I know not yet
whether it will be by the Packet or some other Vessel.
Fearing that the Packet may be crowded with Passengers, I
have desired my Cousin, Jonathan Williams, now in London,
to enquire whether there may not be found some good Vessel
bound directly to Philadelphia, who would agree to take me
on board at Havre, with my Grandsons and Servants, and
my Baggage, etc. Infirm as I am, I have need of comfort-
able Room and Accommodations. I was miserably lodg'd
in coming over hither, which almost demolish'd me. I must
be better stow'd now, or I shall not be able to hold out the
Voyage. Indeed my Friends here are so apprehensive for
me, that they press me much to remain in France, and three
of them have offer'd me an Asylum in their Habitations.
They tell me I am here among a People who universally
esteem and love me; that my Friends at home are dimin-
ish'd by Death in my Absence ; that I may there meet with
Envy and its consequent Enmity which here I am perfectly
free from; this supposing I live to compleat the Voyage,
but of that they doubt. The Desire however of spending
the little Remainder of Life with my Family, is so strong, as
to determine me to try, at least, whether I can bear the Motion
of a Ship. If not, I must get them to set me on shore some-
where in the Channel, and content myself to die in Europe.

328 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1785

It is long since I have heard from you or of you. I hope,
however, that you and the Children continue well. Ben is
very well, and growing amazingly. He promises to be a
stout as well as a good Man. Temple has been ill lately
with a Fever, but is getting better and sends his Duty. I
suppose Ben writes. I am ever my dear Children, your

affectionate Father,

B. FRANKLIN

in his 8oth Year.

1566. TO MARECHAL DE CASTRIES (A. p. s.)

Passy, May 1 6, 1785.

SIR,

I received the Letter you did me the honour of writing to
me the gth Instant, respecting an Advance made to Mr. Bing-
ham Agent of the United States at Martinique, amounting to
200,216 #5. for which he is held accountable. Mr. Bingham
resided at Paris during the Winter, with his Family; but is
now gone to London, and I know not his Address there.
Before his Departure he obtain'd some Letters of Introduction
to the Minister of France at that Court, and probably there-
fore is acquainted with residence; and I submit it to your
Consideration, whether it may not be well to charge that
Minister with the Demand, as I am about to depart for
America, and shall probably have no Opportunity of seeing
Mr. Bingham, for which reason I return the Letter. With
great Respect, I am, Sir,

Your Excellency's most obedient
& most humble Servant,

B. FRANKLIN.

1785] TO JONATHAN WILLIAMS 329

1567. TO JONATHAN WILLIAMS (P. c.)
DEAR JONATHAN Passy May 19. 1785

1 The Conversations you mention respecting America are
pitiable. Those People speak what they wish ; but she was
certainly never in a more happy Situation. They are angry
with us and hate us, and speak all manner of evil of us;
but we flourish, notwithstanding. They put me in mind
of a violent High Church Factor, resident some time in
Boston, when I was a Boy. He had bought upon Specula-
tion a Connecticut Cargo of Onions, which he flatter'd him-
self he might sell again to great Profit, but the Price fell,
and they lay upon hand. He was heartily vex'd with his
Bargain, especially when he observ'd they began to grow in
the Store he had fill'd with them. He show'd them one Day
to a Friend. "Here they are," says he, "and they are grow-
ing too ! I damn 'em every day ; but I think they are like
the Presbyterians ; the more I curse 'em, the more they grow.1'

Billy is got well again and I suppose writes. My Disorder
has its bad and good Days : At present I am tolerably affected
by it ; but sometimes the Pain is hard to bear. I wish you to
buy and send me Blackrie's Disquisition on Medicines that
dissolve the Stone.2 You will find it at Wilkie's, N° 71, Paul's
Churchyard. I am ever, your Affectionate Uncle

B. FRANKLIN.

1 The first paragraph of this letter I have omitted. It contains remarks
upon his preparations for his homeward voyage, the substance of which is to be
found in other letters. The original is in the possession of Louis A. Biddle,
Esq. — ED.

1 " A Disquisition on Medicines which dissolve the Stone, in which Dr.

330 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN" FRANKLIN [1785

1568. TO CALEB WHITEFOORD (B. M.)

Passy May 19. 1785
MY DEAR OLD FRIEND

I have desired my Nephew Mr. Williams to buy a Book
for me, Blackrie's Disquisitions upon Medicines for dis-
solving the Stone. It treats I understand of the Sope-Lye,
which is recommended in the Pamphlet you were so kind as
to send me. But as he may not easily find an Opportunity
of sending it to me, I have directed him to consult with you,
hoping that if it is not too big, you may prevail to have it
come by the Court Courier, under Cover to your Friend here,
who will immediately give it to me.

I am really griev'd to learn by your Letter to my Grandson,
that your public Services at the Treaty remain yet unre-
warded.1 You were long and usefully employ Jd here, and
it is a shame you should be so long neglected. The Min-
istry being chang'd does not lessen your Merit with regard
to the Public. You had a great loss in the Death of that
truly good Man Mr. Oswald.2 For I know it was his inten-
tion, tho' he would not accept of anything for himself on
Account of his Employment here, to make it a Point with
Government, the obtaining a handsome Provision for you.
It is unlucky, I think in the Affairs of this World, that the
Wise and Good should be as mortal as Common People

Chittick's secret is considered and discovered," by Alexander Blackrie. Lon-
don, 1766. i2mo. — ED.

1 It was not until 1793 that a pension of £200 a year was secured to
Whitefoord for his services. — ED.

2 Richard Oswald died November 6, 1784. — ED.

1785] TO GEORGE WHATLEY 331

and that they often die before others are found fit to supply

their Places.

I am ever, my dear Friend,

Yours most affectionately.

B. FRANKLIN.

1569. TO GEORGE WHATLEY1

Passy, May 19, 1785.

DEAR OLD FRIEND,

I received the very good letter you sent me by my grandson,
together with your resemblance, which is placed in my
chamber, and gives me great pleasure. There is no trade,
they say, without returns, and therefore I am punctual in
making those you have ordered.

I intended this should have been a long epistle, but I am
interrupted, and can only add, that I am ever yours most

affectionately,

B. FRANKLIN.

1570. TO GEORGE WHATLEY (L. c.)

Passy, May 23, 1785.

DEAR OLD FRIEND,

I sent you a few Lines the other Day, with the Medallion,
when I should have written more, but was prevented by the
coming in of a Bavard, who worried me till Evening. I bore
with him, and now you are to bear with me ; for I shall prob-
ably bavarder in answering your Letter.

1 From "The Private Correspondence of Benjamin Franklin" ,
Vol. I, p. 183. — ED.

332 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1785

I am not acquainted with the Saying of Alphonsus,1 which
you allude to as a Sanctification of your Rigidity, in refusing
to allow me the Plea of Old Age, as an Excuse for my Want
of Exactness in Correspondence. What was that Saying?
You do not, it seems, feel any occasion for such an Excuse,
though you are, as you say, rising 75. But I am rising (per-
haps more properly falling) 80, and I leave the Excuse with
you till you arrive at that Age; perhaps you may then be
more sensible of its Validity, and see fit to use it for yourself.

I must agree with you, that the Gout is bad, and that the
Stone is worse. I am happy in not having them both to-
gether, and I join in your Prayer, that you may live till you
die without either. But I doubt the Author of the Epitaph 2
you send me was a little mistaken, when he, speaking of the
World, says, that

" he ne'er car'd a pin
What they said or may say of the Mortal within."

It is so natural to wish to be well spoken of, whether alive
or dead, that I imagine he could not be quite exempt from
that Desire ; and that at least he wish'd to be thought a Wit,
or he would not have given himself the Trouble of writing so
good an Epitaph to leave behind him. Was it not as worthy
of his Care, that the World should say he was an honest and
a good Man? I like better the concluding Sentiment in
the old Song, call'd The Old Man's Wish, wherein, after
wishing for a warm House in a country Town, an easy Horse,
some good old authors, ingenious and cheerful Companions,
a Pudding on Sundays, with stout Ale, and a bottle of Bur-

1 The wish of King Alphonsus was to have old friends, old books, old
wine, and old wood, whence Whatley gathered that the age of friends ought
not to be a plea for indolence or inexactness. — ED.

2 Pope's Epitaph, Ep. XVI, 6.— ED.

1785] TO GEORGE WHATLEY 333

gundy, &c. &c., in separate Stanzas, each ending with this
burthen,

44 May I govern my Passions with an absolute sway,
Grow wiser and better as my Strength wears away,
Without Gout or Stone, by a gentle Decay; "

he adds,

" With a Courage undaunted may I face my last day,
And, when I am gone, may the better Sort say,
' In the Morning when sober, in the Evening when mellow,
He's gone, and has not left behind him his Fellow;
For he governed his Passions, &c.' "

But what signifies our Wishing? Things happen, after all,
as they will happen. I have sung that wishing Song a thou-
sand times, when I was young, and now find, at Fourscore,
that the three Contraries have befallen me, being subject to
the Gout and the Stone, and not being yet Master of all my
Passions. Like the proud Girl in my Country, who wished
and resolv'd not to marry a Parson, nor a Presbyterian, nor
an Irishman; and at length found herself married to an
Irish Presbyterian Parson.

You see I have some reason to wish, that, in a future State,
I may not only be as well as I was, but a little better. And
I hope it; for I, too, with your Poet, trust in God. And
when I observe, that there is great Frugality, as well as Wis-
dom, in his Works, since he has been evidently sparing both
of Labour and Materials ; for by the various wonderful Inven-
tions of Propagation, he has provided for the continual peo-
pling his World with Plants and Animals, without being at
the Trouble of repeated new Creations; and by the natural
Reduction of compound Substances to their original Ele-
ments, capable of being employ'd in new Compositions, he
has prevented the Necessity of creating new Matter ; so that
the Earth, Water, Air, and perhaps Fire, which being com-

334 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1785

pounded form Wood, do, when the Wood is dissolved, re-
turn, and again become Air, Earth, Fire, and Water; I say,
that, when I see nothing annihilated, and not even a Drop
of Water wasted, I cannot suspect the Annihilation of Souls,
or believe, that he will suffer the daily Waste of Millions of
Minds ready made that now exist, and put himself to the
continual Trouble of making new ones. Thus finding my-
self to exist in the World, I believe I shall, in some Shape or
other, always exist ; and, with all the inconveniencies human
Life is liable to, I shall not object to a new Edition of mine ;
hoping, however, that the Errata of the last may be corrected.
I return your Note of Children received in the Foundling
Hospital at Paris, from 1741 to 1755, inclusive; and I have
added the Years preceding as far back as 1710 together with
the general Christnings of the City, and the Years succeeding
down to 1770. Those since that Period I have not been able
to obtain. I have noted in the Margin the gradual Increase,
viz. from every tenth Child so thrown upon the Public, till
it comes to every third ! Fifteen Years have passed since the
last Account, and probably it may now amount to one half.
Is it right to encourage this monstrous Deficiency of natural
Affection? A Surgeon I met with here excused the Women
of Paris, by saying, seriously, that they could not give suck;
"Car," dit il, u elles riant point de tetons." He assur'd me
it was a Fact, and bade me look at them, and observe how
flat they were on the Breast ; " they have nothing more there,"
said he, "than I have upon the Back of my hand." I have
since thought that there might be some Truth in his Obser-
vation, and that, possibly, Nature, finding they made no use
of Bubbies, has left off giving them any. Yet, since Rous-
seau, with admirable Eloquence, pleaded for the Rights of

1785] TO GEORGE WHATLEY 335

Children to their Mother's Milk, the Mode has changed a
little ; and some Ladies of Quality now suckle their Infants
and find Milk enough. May the Mode descend to the lower
Ranks, till it becomes no longer the Custom to pack their
Infants away, as soon as born, to the Enfant Trouvts, with
the careless Observation, that the King is better able to main-
tain them.

I am credibly inform'd, that nine-tenths of them die there
pretty soon, which is said to be a great Relief to the Institu-
tion, whose Funds would not otherwise be sufficient to bring
up the Remainder. Except the few Persons of Quality
above mentioned, and the Multitude who send to the Hos-
pital, the Practice is to hire Nurses in the Country to carry
out the Children, and take care of them there. There is an
Office for examining the Health of Nurses, and giving them
Licenses. They come to Town on certain Days of the Week
in Companies to receive the Children, and we often meet
Trains of them on the Road returning to the neighbouring
Villages, with each a Child in her Arms. But those, who are
good enough to try this way of raising their Children, are often
not able to pay the Expence; so that the Prisons of Paris
are crowded with wretched Fathers and Mothers confined
pour Mois de Nourrice, tho' it is laudably a favorite Charity
to pay for them, and set such Prisoners at Liberty. I wish
Success to the new Project of assisting the Poor to keep their
Children at home, because I think there is no Nurse like a
Mother (or not many), and that, if Parents did not immedi-
ately send their Infants out of their Sight, they would in a
few days begin to love them, and thence be spurr'd to greater
Industry for their Maintenance. This is a Subject you under-
stand better than I, and, therefore, having perhaps said too

336 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1785

much, I drop it. I only add to the Notes a Remark, from
the History of the Academy 0} Sciences, much in favour of
the Foundling Institution.

The Philadelphia Bank goes on, as I hear, very well. What
you call the Cincinnati Institution is no Institution of our
Government, but a private Convention among the Officers
of our late Army, and so universally dislik'd by the People,
that it is supposed it will be dropt. It was considered as an
Attempt to establish something like an hereditary Rank or
Nobility. I hold with you, that it was wrong; may I add,
that all descending Honours are wrong and absurd; that
the Honour of virtuous Actions appertains only to him that
performs them, and is in its nature incommunicable. If
it were communicable by Descent, it must also be divisible
among the Descendants ; and the more ancient the Family,
the less would be found existing in any one Branch of it ; to
say nothing of the greater Chance of unlucky Interruptions.1

Our Constitution seems not to be well understood with
you. If the Congress were a permanent Body, there would be
more Reason in being jealous of giving it Powers. But its
Members are chosen annually, cannot be chosen more than
three Years successively, nor more than three Years in seven ;
and any of them may be recall'd at any time, whenever their
Constituents shall be dissatisfied with their Conduct.2 They
are of the People, and return again to mix with the People,
having no more durable preeminence than the different
Grains of Sand in an Hourglass. Such an Assembly cannot
easily become dangerous to Liberty. They are the Servants
of the People, sent together to do the People's Business, and

1 See letter to Mrs. Bache, dated January 26, 1784. — ED.

2 These were the provisions of the old confederation. — S.

1785] TO GEORGE WHATLEY 337

promote the public Welfare ; their Powers must be sufficient,
or their Duties cannot be performed. They have no prof-
itable Appointments, but a mere Payment of daily Wages,
such as are scarcely equivalent to their Expences; so that,
having no Chance for great Places, and enormous Salaries
or Pensions, as in some Countries, there is no triguing or
bribing for Elections.

I wish Old England were as happy in its Government,
but I do not see it. Your People, however, think their Con-
stitution the best in the World, and affect to despise ours. It
is comfortable to have a good Opinion of one's self, and of
every thing that belongs to us ; to think one's own Religion,
King, and Wife, the best of all possible Wives, Kings, or
Religions. I remember three Greenlanders, who had trav-
ell'd two Years in Europe under the care of some Moravian
Missionaries, and had visited Germany, Denmark, Holland,
and England. When I asked them at Philadelphia, where
they were in their Way home, whether, now they had seen
how much more commodiously the white People lived by
the help of the Arts, they would not choose to remain among
us; their Answer was, that they were pleased with having
had an Opportunity of seeing so many fine things, but they
chose to LIVE in their own Country. Which Country, by the
way, consisted of rock only, for the Moravians were obliged
to carry Earth in their Ship from New York, for the purpose
of making there a Cabbage Garden.

By Mr. Dollond's * Saying, that my double Spectacles can
only serve particular Eyes, I doubt he has not been rightly
informed of their Construction. I imagine it will be found
pretty generally true, that the same Convexity of Glass,

1 Peter Dollond (1730-1820), optician. — ED.
VOL. ix — z

338 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1785

through which a Man sees clearest and best at the Distance
proper for Reading, is not the best for greater Distances. I
therefore had formerly two Pair of Spectacles, which I shifted
occasionally, as in travelling I sometimes read, and often
wanted to regard the Prospects. Finding this Change trouble-
some, and not always sufficiently ready, I had the Glasses
cut, and half of each kind associated in the same Circle,
thus,

Least convex
for distant objects

By this means, as I wear my Spectacles constantly, I have
only to move my Eyes up or down, as I want to see distinctly
far or near, the proper Glasses being always ready. This I
find more particularly convenient since my being in France,
the Glasses that serve me best at Table to see what I eat,
not being the best to see the Faces of those on the other Side
of the Table who speak to me ; and when one's Ears are not
well accustomed to the Sounds of a Language, a Sight of the
Movements in the Features of him that speaks helps to ex-
plain ; so that I understand French better by the help of my
Spectacles.

My intended translator of your Piece, the only one I know
who understands the Subject, as well as the two Languages,
(which a translator ought to do, or he cannot make so good

1785] TO CHRISTOPHER WYVILL 339

a Translation,) is at present occupied in an Affair that pre-
vents his undertaking it; but that will soon be over. I
thank you for the Notes. I should be glad to have another
of the printed Pamphlets.

We shall always be ready to take your Children, if you
send them to us. I only wonder, that, since London draws
to itself, and consumes such Numbers of your Country People,
the Country should not, to supply their Places, want and
willingly receive the Children you have to dispose of. That
Circumstance, together with the Multitude who voluntarily
part with their Freedom as Men, to serve for a time as
Lac[k]eys, or for Life as Soldiers, in consideration of small
Wages, seems to me a Proof that your Island is over-peopled.
And yet it is afraid of Emigrations ! Adieu, my dear
Friend, and believe me ever yours very affectionately,

B. FRANKLIN.

1571. TO CHRISTOPHER WYVILL1 (A. p. s.)

Passy, June 16, 1785
SIR

I send you herewith the Sketch I promis'd you. Perhaps it
may be of use to publish something of the kind : For if the
power of Chusing now in the Boroughs continues to be al-
low'd as a Right, they may think themselves more justifiable

1 Christopher Wyvill (1740-1822), prominent in country politics, was an
earnest advocate of parliamentary reform. He was chairman of the York-
shire Association, which aimed among other things to equalize the representa-
tion in Parliament. Its political sentiments were announced in a circular
letter drawn up by Wyvill, and in the Yorkshire petition presented to Parlia-
ment, February 8, 1780. — ED.

340 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN" FRANKLIN [1785

in demanding more for it, or in holding back longer, than
they would if they find that it begins to be consider'd as an
Abuse. With great Esteem, I am,

Sir,

Your most obedient
& most humble Servant
B. FRANKLIN.

1572. ON THE ELECTIVE FRANCHISES ENJOYED
BY THE SMALL BOROUGHS IN ENGLAND l

No man, or body of men, in any nation, can have a just
right to any privilege or franchise not common to the rest
of the nation, without having done the nation some service
equivalent, for which the franchise or privilege was the recom-
pense or consideration.

No man, or body of men, can be justly deprived of a com-
mon right, but for some equivalent offence or injury done to
the society in which he enjoyed that right.

If a number of men are unjustly deprived of a common
right, and the same is given in addition to the common rights
of another number, who have not merited such addition, the
injustice is double.

Few, if any, of the boroughs in England, ever performed
any such particular service to the nation, entitling them to
what they now claim as a privilege in elections.

Originally, in England, when the King issued his writs

1 Addressed to Christopher Wyvill, not Sir Charles Wyvill as in Sparks
and Bigelow; the baronetcy became dormant in 1774. See Thomas Sec-
combe's article upon Christopher Wyvill in " Diet, of Nat. Biog." — ED.

1785] ELECTIVE FRANCHISES IN ENGLAND 341

calling upon counties, cities, and boroughs, to depute persons
who should meet him in Parliament, the intention was to
obtain by that means more perfect information of the general
state of the kingdom, its faculties, strength, and disposition ;
together with the advice their accumulated wisdom might
afford him in "such arduous affairs of the realm" as he had
to propose. And he might reasonably hope, that measures
approved by the deputies in such an assembly would, on their
return home, be by them well explained, and rendered agree-
able to their constituents and the nation in general. At that
time, being sent to Parliament was not considered as being
put into the way of preferment, or increase of fortune ; there-
fore no bribe was given to obtain the appointment. The dep-
uties were to be paid wages by their constituents; there-
fore the being obliged to send and pay was considered rather
as a duty than a privilege. At this day, in New England,
many towns, who may and ought to send members to the
Assembly, sometimes neglect to do it; they are then sum-
moned to answer for their neglect, and fined if they cannot
give a good excuse; such as some common misfortune, or
some extraordinary public expense, which disabled them
from affording, conveniently, the necessary wages. And,
the wages allowed being barely sufficient to defray the dep-
uty's expense, no solicitations are used to be chosen.

In England, as soon as the being sent to Parliament was
found to be a step towards acquiring both honour and fortune,
solicitations were practised, and, where they were insufficient,
money was given. Both the ambitious and avaricious be-
came candidates. But to solicit the poor labourer for his vote
being humiliating to the proud man, and to pay for it hurting
the lover of money, they, when they met, joined in an act to

342 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1785

diminish both these inconveniences, by depriving the poor
of the right of voting, which certainly they were not empow-
ered to do by the electors their constituents, the majority of
whom were probably people of little property. The act was,
therefore, not only unjust, but void. These lower people
were, immediately afterwards, oppressed by another act,
empowering the justices to fix the hire of day-labourers and
their hours of work, and to send them to the house of correc-
tion if they refused to work for such hire; which was de-
posing them from their condition of freemen, and making
them literally slaves.

But this was taking from many freemen a common right,
and confirming it to a jew. To give it back again to the many
is a different operation. Of this the few have no just cause
to complain, because they still retain the common right they
always had, and they lose only the exclusive additional power
which they ought never to have had. And if they used it,
when they had it, as a means of obtaining money, they should
in justice, were it practicable, be obliged to refund and dis-
tribute such money among those who had been so unjustly
deprived of their right of voting, or forfeit it to the public.

Corporations, therefore, or boroughs, who, from being
originally called to send deputies to Parliament, when it was
considered merely as a duty, and not as a particular privilege,
and therefore was never purchased by any equivalent service
to the public, continue to send, now that by a change of times
it affords them profit in bribes, or emoluments of various
kinds, have in reality no right to such advantages ; which are
besides in effect prejudicial to the nation, some of those who
buy thinking they may also sell.

They should therefore, in justice, be immediately deprived

1785] TO THOMAS BARCLAY 343

of such pretended right, and reduced to the condition of com-
mon freemen.

But they are perhaps too strong, and their interest too
weighty, to permit such justice to be done. And a regard
for public good in these people, influencing a voluntary resig-
nation, is not to be expected.

If that be the case, it may be necessary to submit to the
power of present circumstances, passions, and prejudices,
and purchase, since we can do no better, their consent; as
men, when they cannot otherwise recover property unjustly
detained from them, advertise a reward to whoever will re-
store it, promising that no questions shall be asked.

1573. TO THOMAS BARCLAY (L. c.)

Passy, June 19, 1785.

SIR,

With respect to my continuing to charge £2500 Sterling
per Annum as my Salary, of which you desire some Explana-
tion, I send you, in support of that Charge, the Resolution
of Congress, which is in these words.

"In Congress, October 5th, 1779. Resolved, that each of
the Ministers Plenipotentiary be allowed at the rate of
£2500 Sterling per Annum, and each of their Secretaries at
the rate of £1000 Sterling per Annum, in full for their Ser-
vices and Expences respectively. That the Salary of each
of the said Officers be computed from the time of his leaving
his Place of Abode, to enter on the Duties of his Office, and
be continued three Months after the Notice of his Recall."

344 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1785

The several Bills I afterwards received, drawn on the
Congress Banker, Mr. Grand, for my Salary, were all cal-
culated on that salary; and neither the Banker nor myself
has receiv'd Notice of any Change respecting me. He has
accordingly, since the Drawing ceas'd, continu'd to pay me
at the same Rate. I have indeed heard that a Resolution
was pass'd last year, that the Salaries of Plenipotentiaries
should be no more than £2,000 Sterling per ann. But that
Resolution, I suppose, can relate only to such Plenipoten-
tiaries as should be afterwards appointed ; for I cannot con-
ceive, that the Congress, after promising a Minister £2500 a
year, and when he has thereby been encourag'd to engage
in a Way of Living for their Honour, which only that Salary
can support, would think it just to diminish it a Fifth, and
leave him under the Difficulty of reducing his Expences pro-
portionably; a thing scarce practicable; the Necessity of
which he might have avoided, if he had not confided in their
original Promise.

But the Article of Salary with all the Rest of my Account
will be submitted to the Judgment of Congress, together with
some other considerable Articles I have not charged, but on
which I shall expect, from their Equity, some Consideration.
If, for want of knowing precisely the Intention of Congress,
what Expences should be deem'd Public, and what not
public, I have charg'd any Article to the Public, which should
be defrayed by me, their banker has my Order, as soon as
the Pleasure of Congress shall be made known to him, to
rectify the Error, by transferring the Amount to my private
Account, and discharging by so much that of the publick.
I have the honour to be, &c.

B. FRANKLIN.

1785] TO — 345

1574. TO - (L.C.)

Passy, June 20, 1785.

DEAR SIR,

I have just received the only letter from you that has given
me pain. It informs me of your intention to attempt passing
to England in the car of a balloon. In the present imper-
fect state of that invention, I think it much too soon to hazard
a voyage of that distance. It is said here by some of those,
who have had experience, that as yet they have not found
means to keep up a balloon more than two hours ; for that,
by now and then losing air to prevent rising too high and
bursting, and now and then discharging ballast to avoid
descending too low ; these means of regulation are exhausted.
Besides this, all the circumstances of danger by disappoint-
ment, in the operation of soupapes, &c. &c., seem not to be
yet well known, and therefore not easily provided against.
For on Wednesday last M. Pilatre de Rosier,1 who had
studied the subject as much as any man, lost his support in
the air, by the bursting of his balloon, or by some other means
we are yet unacquainted with, and fell with his companion2
from the height of one thousand toises, on the rocky coast,
and were both found dashed to pieces.

1 Jean-Francois Pilatre De Rozier (1756-1785) was Professor of Chemistry
at the Athenee royal, of which he was the founder in 1781. With the Marquis
d'Arlandes he made the first balloon ascension (November 21, 1783). He
was killed, June 15, 1785, in the fall of his balloon, near Boulogne sur Mer.

An epitaph was dedicated to him : —
" Ci git un jeune temeraire,
Qui, dans son ge"nereux transport,
De POlympe etonne franchissant la barriere
Y trouva le premier et la gloire et la mort." — ED.

2 A physicist named Romain. — ED.

346 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1785

You, having lived a good life, do not fear death. But par-
don the anxious freedom of a friend, if he tells you, that, the
continuance of your life being of importance to your family
and your country, though you might laudably hazard it for
their good, you have no right to risk it for a fancy. I pray
God this may reach you in time, and have some effect towards
changing your design; being ever, my dear friend, yours
affectionately, B. FRANKLIN.

1575. TO JEAN- JACQUES CAFFIERI (L. c.)

Passy le 20 Juin 1785
SIR

I received the two obliging Letters you have lately written
to me. Please to deliver one of the Busts to M. le Roy of
the Academy of Sciences, and keep the other till call'd for
by M. Carmichael, Charge* des Affaires des Etats Unis at
Madrid. Send me a Bill of the Expence with a Receipt, and
it shall be immediately paid.

Your Complaints of Injustice, of being supplanted, &c.
seem to have been founded on a Mistake. You have not
considered the 13 States of America as so many distinct
Governments, each of which has a Right to employ what
Artist it thinks proper, and is under no kind of Obligation to
employ one who has been employed before, either by the
Congress or by particular States. The State of Virginia,
therefore, in chusing another, tho' perhaps they may not
have made a better Choice, have certainly done you no In-
justice.

With great Esteem I have the honour to be, &c.

B. FRANKLIN.

1785] TO FRANCIS MASERES 347

1576. TO FRANCIS MASERES1

Passy, June 26, 1785.

SIR,

I have just received your friendly letter of the 2oth instant.
I agree with you perfectly in the opinion, that, though the
contest has been hurtful to both our countries, yet the event,
a separation, is better even for yours than success. The
reducing and keeping us in subjection by an armed force
would have cost you more than the dominion could be worth,
and our slavery would have brought on yours. The ancient
system of the British empire was a happy one, by which the
colonies were allowed to govern and tax themselves. Had it
been wisely continued, it is hard to imagine the degree of
power and importance in the world that empire might have
arrived at. All the means of growing greatness, extent of
territory, agriculture, commerce, arts, population, were
within its own limits, and therefore at its command.

I used to consider that system as a large and beautiful
porcelain vase; I lamented the measures that I saw likely
to break it, and strove to prevent them ; because, once broken,
I saw no probability of its being ever repaired. My en-
deavours did not succeed; we are broken, and the parts
must now do as well as they can for themselves. We may
still do well, though separated. I have great hopes of our
side, and good wishes for yours. The anarchy and confu-
sion you mention, as supposed to prevail among us, exist
only in your newspapers. I have authentic accounts, which

1 From "The Private Correspondence of Benjamin Franklin" ,
Vol. I, p. 461. — ED.

348 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1785

assure me, that no people were ever better governed, or more
content with their respective constitutions and governments,
than the present Thirteen States of America.

A little reflection may convince any reasonable man, that
a government wherein the administrators are chosen annually
by the free voice of the governed, and may also be recalled
at any time if their conduct displeases their constituents,
cannot be a tyrannical one, as your Loyalists represent it;
who at the same time inconsistently desire to return and live
under it. And, among an intelligent, enlightened people,
as ours is, there must always be too numerous and too strong
a party for supporting good government and the laws, to
suffer what is called anarchy. This better account of our
situation must be pleasing to your humanity, and therefore
I give it you.

But we differ a little in our sentiments respecting the Loyal-
ists (as they call themselves), and the conduct of America
towards them, which, you think, "seems actuated by a spirit
of revenge ; and that it would have been more agreeable to
policy, as well as justice, to have restored their estates upon
their taking the oaths of allegiance to the new governments."
That there should still be some resentment against them in
the breasts of those, who have had their houses, farms, and
towns so lately destroyed, and relations scalped under the con-
duct of these royalists, is not wonderful ; though I believe the
opposition given by many to their reestablishing among us
is owing to a firm persuasion, that there could be no reliance
on their oaths ; and that the effect of receiving those people
again would be an introduction of that very anarchy and
confusion they falsely reproach us with. Even the example
you propose, of the English Commonwealth's restoring the

1785] TO FRANCIS MASERES 349

estates of the royalists after their being subdued, seems rather
to countenance and encourage our acting differently, as prob-
ably if the power, which always accompanies property, had
not been restored to the royalists, if their estates had remained
confiscated, and their persons had been banished, they could
not have so much contributed to the restoration of kingly
power, and the new government of the republic might have
been more durable.

The majority of examples in your history are on the other
side of the question. All the estates in England and south
of Scotland, and most of those possessed by the descendants
of the English in Ireland, are held from ancient confiscations
made of the estates of Caledonians and Britons, the original
possessors in your island, or the native Irish, in the last cen-
tury only. It is but a few months since, that your Parliament
has, in a few instances, given up confiscations incurred by a
rebellion suppressed forty years ago. The war against us was
begun by a general act of Parliament, declaring all our estates
confiscated; and probably one great motive to the loyalty
of the royalists was the hope of sharing in these confiscations.
They have played a deep game, staking their estates against
ours; and they have been unsuccessful. But it is a surer
game, since they had promises to rely on from your govern-
ment, of indemnification in case of loss ; and I see your Par-
liament is about to fulfil those promises. To this I have no
objection, because, though still our enemies, they are men;
they are in necessity; and I think even a hired assassin has
a right to his pay from his employer. It seems too more
reasonable, that the expense of paying these should fall upon
the government who encouraged the mischief done, rather
than upon us who suffered it ; the confiscated estates making

350 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1785

amends but for a very small part of that mischief. It is not,
therefore, clear, that our retaining them is chargeable with
injustice.

I have hinted above, that the name loyalist was improperly
assumed by these people. Royalists they may perhaps be
called. But the true loyalists were the people of America,
against whom they acted. No people were ever known more
truly loyal, and universally so, to their soverigns. The
Protestant succession in the House of Hanover was their idol.
Not a Jacobite was to be found from one end of the Colonies
to the other. They were affectionate to the people of England,
zealous and forward to assist in her wars, by voluntary con-
tributions of men and money, even beyond their proportion.
The King and Parliament had frequently acknowledged
this by public messages, resolutions, and reimbursements.
But they were equally fond of what they esteemed their
rights ; and, if they resisted when those were attacked, it was
a resistance in favour of a British constitution, which every
Englishman might share in enjoying, who should come to
live among them ; it was resisting arbitrary impositions, that
were contrary to common right and to their fundamental con-
stitutions, and to constant ancient usage. It was indeed a
resistance in favour of the liberties of England, which might
have been endangered by success in the attempt against ours ;
and therefore a great man in your Parliament * did not
scruple to declare, he rejoiced that America had resisted. I,
for the same reason, may add this very resistance to the
other instances of their loyalty. I have already said, that I
think it just you should reward those Americans, who joined
your troops in the war against their own country ; but, if ever

1 The first Lord Chatham. — ED.

1785] TO MRS. MARY HEWSON 351

honesty could be inconsistent with policy, it is so in this

instance. I am, &c.

B. FRANKLIN.

1577. TO MRS. MARY HEWSON1 (P. c.)

Passy, June 26, 1785.
DEAR FRIEND,

I wrote to you the 5th of last Month, and have since re-
ceived your kind Letter of the 8th, informing me of your
Welfare, and that of the dear Children, which gave me great
Pleasure. I shall long to see you all again in America, where
I hope to be soon. Almost all my things are now packed
up, and will be hi the Barge next Wednesday, to go down
the River; for, though I know not yet what Vessel I shall
go in, I would have every thing at Havre ready to embark;
and I suppose I shall not be here myself a Fortnight longer.

I say nothing to persuade you to go with me or to follow me ;
because I know you do not usually act from Persuasion, but
from Judgment ; and, as that is very sound, I leave you to
yourself. You will do what is best for you and yours, and that
will give me most pleasure. Miss Lamotte's Friends do not
consent to her going to England. I enclose her Letter, by
which you will see, that, tho' she speaks the Language prettily,
she does not write it correctly. Indeed, abundance of the
French are deficient in their own Orthography. I offered her,
as you desir'd, the Money that might be necessary for the
Journey.

Temple is not yet quite well, having had several Returns
of his Ague. Benjamin continues hearty, and has been very
serviceable in Packing. They both present their Respects.

1 From the original in the possession of T. Hewson Bradford, M.D. — ED.

352 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1785

If you should write me a Line before my Departure, direct
it to Havre de Grace. Adieu, my very dear Friend, and
believe me ever yours with sincere and great Affection,

B. FRANKLIN.

P. S. My love to every one of the Children.

1578. TO MRS. MARY HEWSON1 (P. c.)

Passy, July 4, 1785.

DEAR FRIEND,

By this Post I have given Orders to engage a fine Ship,
now at London, to carry me and my Family to Philadelphia,
My Baggage is already on the Seine, going down to Havre,
from whence, if the Captain cannot call for us there, we shall
cross the Channel, and meet him at Cowes, in the Isle of Wight.
The Ship has a large, convenient Cabin, with good Lodging-
Places. The whole to be at my Disposition, and there is
plenty of room for you and yours. You may never have so
good an Opportunity of passing to America, if it is your Inten-
tion. Think of it, and take your Resolution; believing me

ever your affectionate Friend,

B. FRANKLIN.

P. S. Love to the dear Children. If Mr. Williams is
return'd to London, he will inform you of the particulars.
If not, you may enquire of Wallace, Johnson, and Muir,
Merchants, London, to be heard of at the Pensilvania Coffee-
House, Birchin Lane. The Ship is to be at Cowes the ist
of August.

1 From the original in the possession of T. Hewson Bradford, M.D. — ED.

1785] TO CLAUDIUS CRIGAN 353

1579. TO EDWARD BRIDGEN1 (L.C.)

Passy, July 4, 1785

DEAR SIR: — I received your favour of the 28th past.2
Agreeable to your desire, I inform you that I hope to be at
Havre about the 2oth instant. My packages are gone down
the river. Mr. Williams was to ask for my "Transactions
of the Royal Society." If he has not got them I should be
obliged to you to procure and join them to those of the An-
tiquaries. I am not certain that I shall stay long at Havre ;
for if Captain Truxtun cannot call for me there, I must go
over to meet the ship at the Isle of Wight, and be there by the
ist of August. This to yourself ; but you may learn by a dis-
tant question at the Pennsylvania Coffee-House, for your own
government, whether I am to wait at Havre for the ship, or
meet heras above. The person to enquire of is Mr. Johnson,
a Maryland merchant. The books, however, should be put
on board that ship, directed for me at Philadelphia.

With great esteem, I am ever, my dear friend, yours affec-
tionately, B. FRANKLIN.

1580. TO CLAUDIUS CRIGAN3 (A. p. s.)

Passy, July 5. 1785.

MY LORD,
I received the too complaisant Letter your Lordship did

1 From " The Complete Works of Benjamin Franklin" (Bigelow), Vol. IX,
p. 139. — ED.

«In A. P. S. — ED.

* Claudius Crigan or Criggan became Bishop of Sodor and Man in 1784,
and died in 1813. He succeeded Bishop Mason. According to Fraser's
VOL. IX — 2 A

354 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1785

me the honour of writing to me by the Revd Mr. Christian,1
who has also communicated some of your Views for the Bene-
fit of Religion in the United States of America, requesting
my Opinion, which I have given him, but will repeat in this
Letter, lest I should not in every particular have been rightly
apprehended. It is proper to be understood that those States
consist of Thirteen distinct and separate Sovereignties, each
govern'd by its own Laws, in which no one religious Sect is
established as predominant, but there is a general Toleration
of all; and should any thing be enacted by one of them in
favour of a particular Sect, it would have no Operation in the
others. The Congress, tho' formed by Delegates from each
State chosen annually, has Powers extending only to those
general Affairs of political Government that relate to the
Whole, but no Authority whatever is given to them in eccle-
siastical Matters. And I therefore think they will do noth-
ing either to encourage or discourage the Introduction of a
Bishop in America. For myself, I can only say as a private
Person, that I think such an Officer may be of use to the Epis-
copalians, not only for the better Government of their Clergy,
but for preventing the Expence and Risque that attend the
sending their young Men to England for Ordination. He

Magazine, Vol. XXI, p. 558 (April, 1840), his character is thus sketched by a
contemporary writer : —

" Of living characters it is proper to speak with caution, lest adulation or
prejudice should be either seen or suspected : but we scarcely think there is
one person who knows anything of this amiable prelate that will refuse him
the praise of polished and conciliating manners, of sound judgment, and
domestic worth. His pulpit eloquence is impressive, and his labours have not
only tended to the eternal, but also to the temporal happiness of his flock.
He has promoted internal peace, and taught society the blessings of unanimity
and order." — ED.

1 Evan Christian, Vicar general of the Bishop of Sodor and Man, one of
the well-known family of Christians of Milntown in the Isle of Man. — ED.

1785] TO CLAUDIUS CRIGAN 355

should however have Power to consecrate other Bishops,
so as to prevent for ever the Necessity of sending to England
for Successors in that Station, otherwise he will hardly be
so well received. The great Difficulty will be to make proper
Provision for his Support. I doubt whether any of the Gov-
ernments will establish such Support, and I have not much
Confidence that any thing considerable may be obtained by
private Contributions. My Reasons are, that the Episco-
palians in most of the States are very small in Number com-
par'd with the Inhabitants of other Persuasions ; and where
they are a Majority, they do not generally see the Necessity
or Utility of a Resident Bishop, and they apprehend some
Inconveniences in it. Of this there was a strong Instance in
Virginia some years before the late Revolution. The In-
habitants of that Province were almost wholly of the Church
of England, and their House of Commons of course the same.
Yet that House unanimously censured in strong Terms, the
Proposition of some of their own Clergy for introducing a
Bishop, and thank 'd others who oppos'd & defeated the
Project, as may be seen in the following Extract from their
Journal, viz

Friday, July 12. 1772

11 Resolved, nemine contradicente, That the Thanks of the
House be given to the Reverend Mr. Henley, the Reverend Mr.
Gwatkin, the Reverend Mr. Hewit, and the Reverend Mr.
Bland for the wise and well-timed Opposition they have made
to the pernicious Project of a few mistaken Clergymen for
introducing an American Bishop ; a Measure by which much
Disturbance, great Anxiety and Apprehension would certainly
take place among his Majesty's faithful American Subjects:

356 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1785

And that Mr. Richard Henry Lee and Mr. Bland do acquaint
them therewith."

The Apprehension mentioned in this Resolve, I imagine
must have been, an Apprehension of Expence to maintain a
Bishop suitable to his Dignity, and of Attempts to oblige the
Laity to defray such Expence by Taxes, or Tythes, or at least
of their being solicited for voluntary Contributions : there being
at present no Fund appointed for such Purpose, nor any thing
hitherto given but a Farm by Legacy in Rhodisland. If
however the Laity should have chang'd their Minds, and wish
now to have a Bishop, whom they would engage to support
by voluntary Contributions; in that case I imagine none of
the Governments would forbid it, but the Support would
probably be too small and too precarious to be a sufficient
Encouragement.

Mr. Christian ask'd my Opinion whether your making a
Tour incognito thro' that Country, might not be a prudent
Measure ? Whatever Prospect or Hope there may be of your
greater Usefulness to Religion in our extensive Country
than in the little Isle of Man, yet, as you have a Family, I
certainly cannot advise your making any hasty Application to
your Government for your Removal, or taking any Step that
may hazard the loss of a present sure Support against a con-
tingent Future and precarious. Therefore, to enable your-
self to form a better Judgment, it might be well to see with
your own Eyes the State of Things, and sound the Disposition
of the People ; but I am nevertheless inclined to think, that,
in making the Tour, you will hardly be encouraged to attempt
the Change, unless the Society for Propagating the Gospel,
or the British Government, would fix a sufficient Income to
be paid you from England. Such a Journey may, however,

1785] TO GRANVILLE SHARP 357

contribute to establish Health, as well as pleasingly gratify
the Curiosity of seeing the Progress, which the Arts, Agricul-
ture, Science, and Industry are making in a new Country.
With great Respect, I have the honour to be, &c.

B. FRANKLIN.

1581. TO GRANVILLE SHARP1

Passy, July 5, 1785.

DEAR SIR,

I received the books you were so kind as to send me by Mr.
Drown.2 Please to accept my hearty thanks. Your writings,
which always have some public good for their object, I always
read with pleasure. I am perfectly of your opinion, with
respect to the salutary law of gavelkind, and hope it may in
time be established throughout America. In six of the States,
already, the lands of intestates are divided equally among
the children, if all girls; but there is a double share given to
the eldest son, for which I see no more reason, than giving
such share to the eldest daughter; and think there should be
no distinction. Since my being last in France, I have seen
several of our eldest sons, spending idly their fortunes by
residing in Europe and neglecting their own country; these
are from the southern States. The northern young men stay
at home, and are industrious, useful citizens ; the more equal

1 From "The Private Correspondence of Benjamin Franklin" , Vol.
I, p. 192. Granville Sharp (1735-1813), philanthropist and pamphleteer.
He started a movement for the introduction of Episcopacy into the United
States. He was aided by Thomas Seeker, archbishop of Canterbury, and for
his efforts in this cause he received honorary degrees from Harvard and
William and Mary. — ED.

8 Solomon Drown, of Providence, Rhode Island, a student of medicine. — ED.

358 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1785

division of their fathers' fortunes not enabling them to ramble
and spend their shares abroad, which is so much the better
for their country.

I like your piece on the election of bishops. There is a fact
in Holinshed's Chronicles , the latter part relating to Scotland,
which shows, if my memory does not deceive me, that the first
bishop in that country was elected by the clergy. I mentioned
it some time past in a letter to two young men,1 who asked my
advice about obtaining ordination, which had been denied
them by the bishops in England, unless they would take the
oath of allegiance to the King; and I said, I imagine that
unless a bishop is soon sent over with power to consecrate
others, so that we may have no future occasion for applying
to England for ordination, we may think it right, after read-
ing your piece, to elect also.

The Liturgy you mention was an abridgment of that made
by a noble Lord 2 of my acquaintance, who requested me to
assist him by taking the rest of the book, viz. the Catechism
and the reading and singing Psalms. These I abridged by
retaining of the Catechism only the two questions, What is
your duty to God? What is your duty to your neighbour?
with answers. The Psalms were much contracted by leav-
ing out the repetitions (of which I found more than I could
have imagined), and the imprecations, which appeared not
to suit well the Christian doctrine of forgiveness of injuries,
and doing good to enemies. The book was printed for Wilkie,
in St. Paul's Church Yard, but never much noticed. Some
were given away, very few sold, and I suppose the bulk be-
came waste paper. In the prayers so much was retrenched,

1 See the Letter to Messrs. Weems and Gant, July i8th, 1784. — ED.

2 Lord Le Despencer. — ED.

1785] TO DAVID HARTLEY 359

that approbation could hardly be expected; but I think,
with you, a moderate abridgment might not only be useful,
but generally acceptable.1

I am now on the point of departing for America where I
shall be glad occasionally to hear from you, and of your wel-
fare ; being with sincere and great esteem, dear Sir, your most

obedient and most humble servant,

B. FRANKLIN.

1582. TO DAVID HARTLEY3

Passy, July 5, 1785.

I CANNOT quit the coasts of Europe without taking leave
of my ever dear Friend Mr. Hartley. We were long fellow
labourers in the best of all works, the work of peace. I leave
you still in the field, but having finished my day's task, I am
going home to go to bed! Wish me a good night's rest, as I
do you a pleasant evening. Adieu ! and believe me ever
yours most affectionately, B. FRANKLIN,

in his 8oth year.

1 On this subject Mr. Sharp had written as follows : " I have been in-
formed, that several years ago, you revised the Liturgy of the Church of
England, with a view, by some few alterations, to promote the more general
use of it; but I have never yet been able to see a Copy of the form you pro-
posed. Our present public Service is certainly, upon the whole, much too
long, as it is commonly used; so that a prudent revision of it, by the common
consent of the Members of the Episcopal Church in America, might be very
advantageous; though, for my own part, I conceive, that the addition of one
single Rubric from the Gospel would be amply sufficient to direct the advisers
to the only corrections that seem to be necessary at present. I mean a general
fluff, illustrated by proper examples, references, and marks, to warn officiat-
ing Ministers how they may avoid ay useless repetitions & tautology in reading
the service." — London, June 17, 1785. (A. P. S.) — ED.

2 From "The Private Correspondence of Benjamin Franklin" ,
Vol. I, p. 194. — ED.

360 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1785

1583. TO JONATHAN WILLIAMS1 (p. c.)

Passy July 5. 1785

DEAR COUSIN

I have just received your Letter from Dublin acquainting
me that you were in Treaty for a Vessel to take me in from
Havre. I have already thro' Mr. Johnson agreed to go with
Capt. Truxton, who is to meet me at Cowes ; so that an Agree-
ment with any other is needless. I am nevertheless oblig'd
by your kind Attention. We are to be at Cowes and sail
from thence the first of August. I hope your Affairs will
allow your joining us there. It is a fine Ship of 400 Tons
with excellent Accommodations for Passengers. Our Lug-
gage is gone down the River and we follow in a few Days.
Your Family was well on Sunday. I am ever
Your affectionate Uncle

B. FRANKLIN

1584. TO COMTE DE SALMES (U.OFP.)

Passy, July 5. 1785.

SIR,

I received the Letter you did me the honour of writing to
me some time since, respecting the Application of Keys to
the Harmonica as contrived by Abbe* Perno ; and requesting
to know if any thing of the kind had been done at Paris, Lon-
don or elsewhere. When I was in London, about 12 years
since, Mr Steele an ingenious Musician there, made an Attempt

1 From the original in the possession of Louis A. Biddle, Esq. — ED.

1785] TO COMTE DE SALMES 361

of that sort; but the Tones were with Difficulty produc'd
by the Touch from the Keys, and the Machinery in Playing
made so much Noise and Rattle, as to diminish greatly the
Pleasure given by the Sound of the Glasses; so that I think
the Instrument was never compleated. The Duchess of -
at Paris about the same time endeavour'd to obtain the same
End, and has not yet laid aside the Project, tho' it has not
hitherto perfectly succeeded. Baron Feriet of Versailles,
began to work on the same Idea about the Time I receiv'd
your Letter ; and as he is a very ingenious Man, & has a hand
to execute as well as a head to contrive the necessary Ma-
chinery, I hoped soon to have given you an Account of his
Success : but I begin to doubt it, as I have nothing from him
lately. In my Manner of Playing on my Instrument the Fin-
gers are capable of Touching with great Delicacy ; and the
Glasses hum so smoothly, that one hears no other Sound but
that given by the touch. If the Instrument of Abbe* Perno has
the same Advantages, its being play'd with Keys gives it an
undoubted Preference, and I should be glad to know the Con-
struction.

I should be happy if I had any thing to send to the Academy
worthy its Acceptance. My Occupations have for some Years
past, prevented my Attention to philosophical Subjects. I
can only wish Success to its laudable Pursuits ; and beg you
to believe me, with sincere Esteem

Sir,
B. FRANKLIN.

362 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1785

1585. TO JOHN PAUL JONES (B. M.)

Passy, July 9, '85.

MR. Franklin presents his Compliments to Commodore
Jones, and sends him what Papers can now be found respect-
ing his Affairs. The Correspondence with the Ministers of
Denmark being pack'd up and gone; but that is not very
material.

Mr. F's best Wishes attend you.

1586. TO CHARLES-JOSEPH MATRON DE LA

COUR1 (A. p. s.)

Passy, July 9, 1785.

SIR,

I have received the letter, which you did me the honour to
write in the name of the Academy of the city of Lyons. I
accept with gratitude the title, with which this learned Society
is kind enough to honour me. I have long been acquainted
with its useful labours. I should be most happy to live near it,
and reap the benefit of its instruction. But, being on the eve
of my departure for America, I must add this also to the many
sources of regret, which the kindness of the French calls forth
in my heart. I shall never forget what I owe to them, still
less what I owe to your Academy, to the members of which
I beg you to present my respectful acknowledgments.

I thank you, Sir, for your Dissertation on the Laws of Ly-

1 From a French copy in A. P. S. — ED.

1785] TO MRS. JANE MECOM 363

curgus, and your Testament de ]ortune Ricard.1 With the latter
work I was already acquainted. I had read it with pleasure,
and conceived a high opinion of its author. I have just read
your Dissertation. If my own approbation could add any thing
to that of the celebrated Academy, which has awarded to you
the prize, I should tell you, that I have been highly gratified,
and that I only regret I can give you no other prize, than the
sentiments of regard and respect, with which I am, Sir, &c.

B. FRANKLIN.

1587. TO MRS. JANE MECOM2 (P. c.)
St. Germain, 12 Miles from Paris, July 13, '85.

DEAR SISTER

I left Passy, yesterday afternoon, and am here in my Way
to Havre de Grace a Seaport, in order to embark for America.
I make use of one of the King's Litters carried by Mules,
who walk steadily and easily, so that I bear the Motion very
well. I am to be taken on board a Philadelphia Ship on the
Coast of England, (Capt. Truxton) the beginning of next
Month. Not having written to you since that which contain 'd
a Bill for you on M* Vernon, and as I may not have another
Opportunity before my Arrival in Philadelphia, (if it pleases
God I do arrive) I write these Particulars to go by way of
England, that you may be less uneasy about me. I did my
last public Act in this Country just before I set out, which
was signing a Treaty of Amity and Commerce with Prussia.

1 A translation of this curious piece was published by Dr. Price in London,
as an Appendix to his Observations on the Importance of the American Revo-
lution. — ED.

2 From the original in the possession of Mr. E. B. Holden. — ED.

364 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1785

I have continu'd to work till late in the Day : tis time I should
go home, and go to Bed.

My Love to your Daughter and to Cousin Williams, &
believe me ever, my dear Sister,

Your Affectionate Brother

B. FRANKLIN.

Tho' going to my own Country, I leave this with Regret
having receiv'd so much Kindness in it, from all Ranks of
People. Temple and Benjamin are with me, and send their
dutiful Respects.

1588. TO MADAME HELVfiTIUS1 (B. N.)

Au Havre, ce 19 Juillet, '85.

Nous arrivar[m]ons ici, ma tre*s chere amie, hier au soir bien
heureusement. Je n'etois pas fatigue* du tout. Je me
trouvois mieux mSme qu'avant mon Depart. Nous reste-
rons ici quelque jour pour nos Baggages & pour notre Com-
pagnon de Voyage M. Houdon. A leur Arrive'e, nous quit-
terons la France, la Pais du monde que faime le plus; & j'y
laisserois ma chere Helvetia. Elle y peut toe heureux. Je
ne suis sur d'etre heureux in Amerique ; mais il faut que je
m'y rende. II me semble que les choses sont mal arranges
dans ce bas monde, quand je vais que les etres si faites pour
etre heureux ensemble sont obliges a se separer.

J'ai trouve" tant de Difficultes dans ma Projet de passer de
Rouen ici par Eau, que j'etois fort aise de Pavoir obtenu du

1 It should perhaps be noted that the letters to Madame Helvetius were
written by Franklin without correction, and they show what his "having" in
French really was. — ED.

1785] TO BENJAMIN VAUGHAN 365

bon Due de Coigny la permission de continuer en Litiere.
Dites a les Abbe's, les bons Abbe's, les choses pour moi,
pleins d'Amitit. Je ne vous dis pas que je vous aime. On
me diroit qu'il n'y a rien d'extraordinaire ni point de merite
en ca, parceque tous le monde vous aime, J'espere seulement
que vous m'aimerez toujours un peu. Je suis interromper
par des Visites. Avant de partir je vous dirai mes dernieres

Adieux.

B. FRANKLIN.

1589. TO BENJAMIN VAUGHAN »

Southampton, 8 o'clock, A. M., July 24, 1785
MY VERY DEAR FRIEND,

I am this minute arrived here with my family from Havre
de Grace ; and shall stay here till Captain Truxtun arrives at
Cowes to take us in.2 I write this line, just to inform you, that

1 First printed by Sparks, Vol. X, p. 217. — ED.

2 Thomas Truxtun, distinguished in the naval annals of the United States,
was born on Long Island, February 1 7th, 1755. He manifested an early predi-
lection for the sea, and made his first voyage when he was twelve years old.
During a part of the Revolution he commanded several private armed vessels,
in which he was successful in annoying the enemy's commerce, particularly on
the coast of England. He signalized himself for courage and skill in two or
three engagements. When the navy was revived, on the prospect of a war
with France, in 1794, Truxtun was one of the six captains first nominated by
Washington to the Senate. He superintended the building of the frigate
Constellation, with which, and a small squadron under his command, he was
employed in protecting the American commerce in the West Indies. It was
here that he fought his celebrated action with the French frigate Insurgente,
on the pth of February, 1799. After an engagement of an hour and a quarter
the Insurgente struck her colors. This vessel carried forty guns, and four
hundred and seventeen men; of whom twenty-nine were killed and forty-four
wounded. The Constellation carried thirty-six guns, and had but one man
killed and two wounded. The gallantry displayed by Commodore Truxtun
on this occasion was highly applauded. — S.

366 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1785

I bore the journey to Havre, in one of the King's litters, very
well, and the voyage also from thence hither in forty-five
hours, though the wind was a great part of the time contrary.
I shall be glad of a line from you, acquainting me whether you
ever received two pieces I sent you some months since ; one
on your penal laws, the other an account of the residence of
an English seaman in China.1 As you commonly said some-
thing to me concerning the things I used to send you, I appre-
hend you either have not received these, or do not like them.
If you have any thing to say by me to your friends in America,
send it, and I will take care to deliver it. Adieu, my dearest

friend. I am ever yours,

B. FRANKLIN.

1590. TO RUELLAN & CO.2 (L. c.)

Southampton, July 25, 1785.

DEAR SIR: — We arrived here yesterday Morning about
8 o'Clock. I was not in the least incommoded by the Voyage,
but M. Le Veillard and my Grandsons were all very sick upon
the Passage, tho' now recover'd and well.

Capt. Jennings staying here till to-morrow Morning, and
having heard since my coming here that the ship has sailed
from London, I begin to fear it will be impossible for him to
return in time with the rest of my Baggage, supposing it to
be now at Havre.

I have forwarded your Letter of Credit to Messrs. Thel-
lusson,3 and ask'd them to give me a Credit here for Fifty

1 See supra, p. 200. — ED. 2 Bankers at Havre. — ED.

3 Peter Thellusson, Sons & Co., bankers in London. — ED.

1785] TO JEAN HOLKER 367

Guineas, if I should want so much, but as my Stay is like to
be very short, I know not yet whether I shall have occasion to
make any use of it. I am nevertheless extreamly sensible
of the Kindness and Generosity of your Proceeding in that
Letter, as well as in every other Point of your Friendly En-
tertainment and good Offices at Havre, and the Provision
you laid in for us. I can at present only offer in return my
thankfull Acknowledgments, requesting that if at any time
I can be of any use to you in America, or to any Friend of yours,
you would be so good as to command me freely. Be pleased
to present my respectful Compliments to good Made Ruellan.
I hope the Children are better.

I write to Mr. Limozin,1 desiring him to forward my Goods
by the Pacquet, in Case the next sails from Havre, as has been
said, and no Vessel offers sooner that goes directly to Phila-
delphia. If I remember right, the Regulations of the Pac-
quets forbid their taking heavy Goods, but I suppose you may
be able to obtain Permission for mine, which will be an addi-
tional Favour. With great Esteem, etc.,

B. FRANKLIN

1591. TO JEAN HOLKER (L. c.)

Southampton, July 25, 1785

MY DEAR FRIEND : — I know it will give you and good Mrs.
Holker Pleasure, to learn that we arrived safe and well here
yesterday Morning, neither the Journey by Land nor Voyage
by sea having incommoded me in the least. I have given you
abundance of Trouble with my little Affairs, and am loth to

1 Andre Limozin, Havre banker, and United States agent for prizes. — ED.

368 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1785

give you any more, but cannot well avoid requesting you
would be so kind as to show the inclos'd Account to Mr.
Garvey when he returns to Rouen, and represent to him that
the Charge his Nephew makes of Commissions, three Livres
per Box, only for the Care of having my 128 Boxes mov'd out
of one Boat into another, appears to me exorbitant, amount-
ing to 390 Livres, near as much as the Expence of bringing
them from Paris to Rouen, and three times as much as has
been demanded of me for their Freight between Havre and
Cowes, loading and discharging included. If Mr. Garvey
confirms the Charge, which I think he hardly will, let him
say so at the Bottom of the Account, and then send it with this
Letter to Mr. Grand, whom I hereby desire and authorize
to pay it ; because I would not leave any just Claim upon me
remaining in France ; tho' I should wish to know if there are
any Circumstances I am unacquainted with that can make
such a Charge appear reasonable. God bless you both, my
dear Friends, and believe me ever, with a Heart deeply sensible
of all your kindness, yours most affectionately,

B. FRANKLIN.

1592. TO FERDINAND GRAND (L. c.)

Southampton, July 25, 1785

DEAR SIR : — I wrote a few lines to you per Post yesterday
morning, to acquaint you with my Arrival here, not in the
least incommoded by the Journey and Voyage, but rather
better than I have been for a long time since.

Our Goods that were sent down the River had not arrived
at Havre when we left that Place, and as I learn here that our

1785] TO FERDINAND GRAND 369

Ship was at Gravesend the 22d. and expected to be in the
Downs yesterday evening, she may be here to-morrow, so
that I now almost despair of getting them at Cowes in time to
go in her, and they must be forwarded in the August Pacquet
if that sails from Havre, or wait some other Opportunity.
To me the Disappointment will not be much, as the things I
most immediately want came down by the Roulier, and are
with me, but Mr. Houdon will be at a loss for his Clay, etc.
Mr. Limozin has the Care of receiving and forwarding our
things ; but the Business not being finish'd I could not settle
the Account with him, but have directed him to exhibit it to
you, and I desire you would pay it. The Person who manages
Mr. Garvey's Business in his absence has made a heavy
Charge against me as his Commission. I have sent the Ac-
count to Mr. Holker, desiring he would show it to Mr. Gar-
vey on his Return and acquaint him that I think that Charge
enormous ; but if he confirms it, then to send the account to
you with my Letter in which I desire you to pay it.

To assist my Grandson in a Purchase he is making of his
Father now here, perhaps I may draw on you in favour of
the Father for Forty-eight thousand Livres, at 30 Days'
Sight ; in which Case I would have you to sell Six of my Ac-
tions of the Caisse d'Escompte, and add to the Product of that
sale as much out of the Ballance of my Account now in your
hands as will make up the sum of 48,000 Livres.

My best Wishes attend you and yours, being with sincere
esteem, Dear Sir, your most obliged Friend and humble
Serv*, B. FRANKLIN.

VOL. IX — 2 B

370 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1785
1593. TO ANDRE LIMOZIN (L. c.)

Southampton, July 25, 1785.

SIR : — We arrived here on Sunday morning about 7 o'clock.
I was not in the least incommoded by the voyage, but my chil-
dren and my friend Mr. Veillard were very sick.

I have just learned that our ship was at Gravesend the 22nd
and expected to be in the Downs yesterday, and therefore may
be here sooner than was at first proposed, so that I have now
no hopes of the goods being here in time to go in her. I there-
fore hereby desire you would forward them to New York
in the packet, in case a packet sails from Havre next month,
as has been proposed, and you have no vessel to sail directly
for Philadelphia. The packets are indeed by the original
regulations not allowed to take heavy goods upon freight,
but I am persuaded Mr. Ruellan will at your request obtain
the permission. I write to Mr. Grand to pay your account
against me for disbursements and commission. And I
desire you besides to accept my thankful acknowledgments.
My best wishes attend you and your amiable daughter, being
with great regard, sir, your most obedient and most humble
servant, B. FRANKLIN.

1594. TO MRS. MARY HEWSON1 (p. c.)

Southampton, July 26, 1785.

DEAR FRIEND,

I received here yours of the 23d Instant. I am sorry it did
not suit you to go in the Ship with me, having engaged Places
1 From the original in the possession of T. Hewson Bradford, M.D. — ED.

1785] TO J. COAKLEY LETTSOM 371

in the Cabin, that would have accommodated you and yours,
not indeed on your Account, because I never depended on your
going; but I took the whole Cabin, that I might not be in-
truded on by any accidental disagreable Company.

If you come to Philadelphia, you will find an always affec-
tionate Friend in me, and in my Children after I am gone.
My Love to yours, and to Dolly; and my Respects to Mrs.
Hawkesworth. I came to Havre de Grace in a Litter, and
hither in the Pacquet-Boat ; and, instead of being hurt by
the Journey or Voyage, I really find myself very much better,
not having suffer'd so little for the time these two Years past.

Adieu, my dear Friend; accept my repeated Thanks for
the agreable Winter your kind Company, with that of my
young Friends, made me pass, and believe me ever yours

sincerely and most affectionately,

B. FRANKLIN.

1595. TO J. COAKLEY LETTSOM1

Southampton, July 26, 1785

DEAR SIR : — I received your kind letter, and the valuable
present of Dr. Fothergill's Works ; for which please to accept
my grateful acknowledgments. I purpose, on my voyage,
to write the remaining notes of my life, which you desire, and
to send them to you on my arrival. You have done a good
deed in contributing to promote science among us, by your
liberal donation of books to Carlisle College. Thanks for
your good wishes in favour of our country, and of your friend
and servant. B. FRANKLIN.

1 From " The Complete Works of Benjamin Franklin " (Bigelow), Vol. IX,
p. ISS.-ED.

372 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1785

1596. TO MADAME HELVETIUS (B. N.)

A Southampton, 27 Juillet 1785
En Angleterre, pres 1'Isle de Wight.

Notre Vaisseau arrivait ici hier de Londres. Aujourdhui
nous nous embarquerons. Adieu, ma tr6s tre*s tr6s chere
Amie, Souhaitez pour nous bon Voyage, & dites aux bons
Abbe's de prier pour nous, cela etant leur Metier. Je me
trouve tres bien. Si j'arrive en Amerique vous aurez bientot
de mes Nouvelles. Je vous aimerai toujours, penses quelque-

fois de moi, & ecrires quelquefois a

Votre B. F.
Mes Enfans presentans leurs Respects.

1597. TO DAVID LE ROY1

MARITIME OBSERVATIONS

At Sea, on board the London Packet,
Capt. Truxton, August 1785.

SIR,

Your learned writings on the navigation of the antients,
which contain a great deal of curious information ; and your

1 This letter was translated into French, and published at Paris in the
year 1787, entitled, " Lettre de Monsieur Benjamin Franklin a Monsieur
David Le Roy, Membre de Plusieurs Academies, &*c." The following note is
prefixed by the French editor. — " Cette lettre a ete lue a la Societe Philo-
sophique Americaine de Philadelphia, le 2 Decembre, 1785. Elle est imprimee
dans les Memoires de cette Societe. On lit dans le titre, a M. Alphonse Le
Roy. Comme cet Academicien ne se nomme pas Alphonse, nous y avons
substitue 1'un de ses noms de baptlme. II est de 1'Academie des Belles-
Lettres, de celle de Marine, de la Societe des Antiquaires de Londres, de la
Societe Philosophique Americaine, &c." It is here printed from "Transac-
tions of The American Philosophical Society," Vol. II , p. 294. — ED.

Plat*- XII

1785] MARITIME OBSERVATIONS 373

very ingenious contrivances for improving the modern sails
(voilure), of which I saw with great pleasure a successful
trial on the river Seine, have induced me to submit to your con-
sideration and judgment, some thoughts I have had on the
latter subject.

Those mathematicians who have endeavoured to improve
the swiftness of vessels by calculating to find the form of least
resistance, seem to have considered a ship as a body moving
through one fluid only, the water; and to have given little
attention to the circumstance of her moving through another
fluid, the air. It is true, that, when a vessel sails right before
the wind, this circumstance is of no importance, because the
wind goes with her ; but, in every deviation from that course,
the resistance of the air is something, and becomes greater
in proportion as that deviation increases. I wave at present
the consideration of those different degrees of resistance
given by the air to that part of the hull which is above water,
and confine myself to that given to the sails ; for their motion
through the air is resisted by the air, as the motion of the hull
through the water is resisted by the water, though with less
force as the air is a lighter fluid. And, to simplify the dis-
cussion as much as possible, I would state one situation only,
to wit, that of the wind upon the beam, the ship's course
being directly across the wind ; and I would suppose the sail
set in an angle of forty-five degrees with the keel, as in the
following figure; wherein (Plate XII. Fig. i,) A B represents
the body of the vessel, C D the position of the sail, E E E the
direction of the wind, M M the line of motion. In observing
this figure it will appear, that so much of the body of the vessel
as is immersed in the water must, to go forward, remove out
of its way what water it meets with between the pricked lines

374 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1785

F F. And the sail, to go forward, must move out of its way
all the air its whole dimension meets with between the pricked
lines C G and D G. Thus both the fluids give resistance to
the motion, each in proportion to the quantity of matter
contained in the dimension to be removed. And though the
air is vastly lighter than the water, and therefore more easily
removed, yet, the dimension being much greater, its effect is
very considerable.

It is true, that, in the case stated, the resistance given by
the air between those lines to the motion of the sail is not
apparent to the eye, because the greater force of the wind, which
strikes it in the direction E E E, overpowers its effect, and
keeps the sail full in the curve a, a, a, a, a. But suppose the
wind to cease, and the vessel in a calm to be impelled with the
same swiftness by oars, the sail would then appear filled in
the contrary curve ft, b, b, b, b, when prudent men would
immediately perceive, that the air resisted its motion, and
would order it to be taken in.

Is there any possible means of diminishing this resistance,
while the same quantity of sail is exposed to the action of the
wind, and therefore the same force obtained from it ? I think
there is, and that it may be done by dividing the sail into a
number of parts, and placing those parts in a line one behind
the other; thus instead of one sail extending from C to D,
figure 2, if four sails, containing together the same quantity
of canvass, were placed as in figure 3, each having one quarter
of the dimensions of the great sail, and exposing a quarter of
its surface to the wind, would give a quarter of the force;
so that the whole force obtained from the wind would be the
same, while the resistance from the air would be nearly reduced
to the space between the pricked lines a b and c d, before the
foremost sail.

1785] MARITIME OBSERVATIONS 375

It may perhaps be doubted whether the resistance from the
air would be so diminished ; since possibly each of the follow-
ing small sails having also air before it, which must be re-
moved, the resistance on the whole would be the same.

This is then a matter to be determined by experiment.
I will mention one, that I many years since made with success
for another purpose; and I will propose another small one
easily made. If that too succeeds, I should think it worth
while to make a larger, though at some expence, on a river
boat; and perhaps time and the improvements experience
will afford, may make it applicable with advantage to larger
vessels.

Having near my kitchen chimney a round hole of eight
inches diameter, through which was a constant steady current
of air, increasing or diminishing only as the fire increased or
diminished, I contrived to place my jack so as to receive that
current ; and taking off the flyers, I fixed in their stead on the
same pivot a round tin plate of nearly the same diameter with
the hole ; and having cut it in radial lines almost to the centre,
so as to have six equal vanes, I gave to each of them the ob-
liquity of forty-five degrees. They moved round, without
the weight, by the impression only of the current of air, but
too slowly for the purpose of roasting. I suspected that the
air struck by the back of each vane might possibly by its
resistance retard the motion ; and to try this, I cut each of them
into two, and I placed the twelve, each having the same ob-
liquity, in a line behind each other, when I perceived a great
augmentation in its velocity, which encouraged me to divide
them once more, and, continuing the same obliquity, I placed
the twenty-four behind each other in a line, when the force
of the wind being the same, and the surface of vane the same,

376 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1785

they moved round with much greater rapidity, and perfectly
answered my purpose.

The second experiment that I propose, is, to take two play-
ing cards of the same dimensions, and cut one of them trans-
versely into eight equal pieces ; then with a needle string them
upon two threads, one near each end, and place them so upon
the threads that, when hung up, they may be one exactly
over the other, at a distance equal to their breadth, each in a
horizontal position; and let a small weight, such as a bird-
shot, be hung under them, to make them fall in a straight line
when let loose. Suspend also the whole card by threads
from its four corners, and hang to it an equal weight, so as
to draw it downwards when let fall, its whole breadth pressing
against the air. Let those two bodies be attached, one of
them to one end of a thread a yard long, the other to the other
end. Extend a twine under the ceiling of a room, and put
through it at thirty inches distance two pins bent in the form
of fish-hooks. On these two hooks hang the two bodies,
the thread that connects them extending parallel to the twine,
which thread being cut, they must begin to fall at the same in-
stant. If they take equal time in falling to the floor, it is a
proof that the resistance of the air is in both cases equal. If
the whole card requires a longer time, it shows that the sum
of the resistances to the pieces of the cut card is not equal to
the resistance of the whole one.1

This principle so far confirmed, I would proceed to make
a larger experiment, with a shallop, which I would rig in
this manner. (Plate XII. Fig. 4.) A B is a long boom,

1 The motion of the vessel made it convenient to try this simple experi-
ment at sea, when the proposal of it was written. But it has been tried since
we came on shore, and succeeded as the other. — F.

1785] MARITIME OBSERVATIONS 377

from which are hoisted seven jibs, a, 6, c, d, ey /, g, each a
seventh part of the whole dimensions, and as much more as
will fill the whole space when set in an angle of forty-five
degrees, so that they may lap when going before the wind,
and hold more wind when going large. Thus rigged, when
going right before the wind, the boom should be brought at
right angles with the keel, by means of the sheet ropes C D,
and all the sails hauled flat to the boom.

These positions of boom and sails to be varied as the wind
quarters. But when the wind is on the beam, or when you
would turn to windward, the boom is to be hauled right fore
and aft, and the sails trimmed according as the wind is more
or less against your course.

It seems to me, that the management of a shallop so rigged
would be very easy, the sails being run up and down separately,
so that more or less sail may be made at pleasure ; and I
imagine, that there being full as much sail exposed to the
force of the wind which impels the vessel in its course, as if
the whole were in one piece, and the resistance of the dead
air against the foreside of the sail being diminished, the
advantage of swiftness would be very considerable; besides
that the vessel would lie nearer the wind.

Since we are on the subject of improvements hi navigation,
permit me to detain you a little longer with a small relative
observation. Being, in one of my voyages, with ten merchant
ships under convoy of a frigate at anchor in Torbay, waiting
for a wind to go to the westward, it came fair, but brought in
with it a considerable swell. A signal was given for weigh-
ing, and we put to sea all together; but three of the ships left
their anchors, their cables parting just as the anchors came
a-peak. Our cable held, and we got up our anchor ; but the

378 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1785

shocks the ship felt before the anchor got loose from the
ground, made me reflect on what might possibly have caused
the breaking of the other cables ; and I imagined it might be
the short bending of the cable just without the hawse-hole,
from a horizontal to an almost vertical position, and the sudden
violent jerk it receives by the rising of the head of the ship on
the swell of a wave while in that position. For example,
suppose a vessel hove up so as to have her head nearly over
her anchor, which still keeps its hold, perhaps in a tough
bottom ; if it were calm, the cable still out would form nearly
a perpendicular line, measuring the distance between the
hause-hole and the anchor ; but if there is a swell, her head in
the trough of the sea will fall below the level, and when lifted
on the wave will be much above it. In the first case the cable
will hang loose and bend perhaps as in figure 5 . In the second
case, figure 6, the cable will be drawn straight with a jerk,
must sustain the whole force of the rising ship, and must either
loosen the anchor, resist the rising force of the ship, or break.
But why does it break at the hause-hole ?

Let us suppose it a cable of three inches diameter, and
represented by figure 7. If this cable is to be bent round the
corner A, it is evident that either the part of the triangle con-
tained between the letters a, 6, c, must stretch considerably,
and those most that are nearest the surface ; or that the parts
between d, e, /, must be compressed; or both, which most
probably happens. In this case, the lower half of the thick-
ness affords no strength against the jerk, it not being strained,
the upper half bears the whole, and the yarns near the upper
surface being first and most strained, break first, and the next
yarns follow ; for in this bent situation they cannot bear the
strain all together, and each contribute its strength to the

1785] MARITIME OBSERVATIONS 379

whole, as they do when the cable is strained in a straight
line.

To remedy this, methinks it would be well to have a kind
of large pulley wheel, fixed in the hause-hole, suppose of two
feet diameter, over which the cable might pass; and, being
there bent gradually to the round of the wheel, would thereby
be more equally strained, and better able to bear the jerk,
which may save the anchor, and by that means in the course
of the voyage may happen to save the ship.

One maritime observation more shall finish this letter.
I have been a reader of newspapers now near seventy years,
and I think few years pass without an account of some vessel
met with at sea, with no living soul on board, and so many
feet of water in her hold, which vessel has nevertheless been
saved and brought into port ; and when not met with at sea,
such forsaken vessels have often come ashore on some coast.
The crews, who have taken to their boats and thus abandoned
such vessels, are sometimes met with and taken up at sea by
other ships, sometimes reach a coast, and are sometimes never
heard of. Those that give an account of quitting their vessels
generally say, that she sprung a leak, that they pumped for
some time, that the water continued to rise upon them, and
that, despairing to save her, they had quitted her, lest they
should go down with her. It seems by the event that this
fear was not always well founded, and I have endeavoured
to guess at the reason of the people's too hasty discourage-
ment.

When a vessel springs a leak near her bottom, the water
enters with all the force given by the weight of the column
of water without, which force is in proportion to the difference
of level between the water without and that within. It enters

380 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1785

therefore with more force at first and in greater quantity,
than it can afterwards when the water within is higher. The
bottom of the vessel too is narrower, so that the same quan-
tity of water coming into that narrow part, rises faster than
when the space for it to flow in is larger. This helps to
terrify. But, as the quantity entering is less and less as the
surfaces without and within become more nearly equal in
height, the pumps, that could not keep the water from rising
at first, might afterwards be able to prevent its rising higher,
and the people might have remained on board in safety,
without hazarding themselves in an open boat on the wide
ocean. (Fig. 8.)

Besides the greater equality in the height of the two sur-
faces, there may sometimes be other causes that retard the
farther sinking of a leaky vessel. The rising water within
may arrive at quantities of light wooden work, empty chests,
and particularly empty water-casks, which if fixed so as not
to float themselves may help to sustain her. Many bodies
which compose a ship's cargo may be specifically lighter than
water; all these when out of water are an additional weight
to that of the ship, and she is in proportion pressed deeper into
the water; but, as soon as these bodies are immersed, they
weigh no longer on the ship, but on the contrary, if fixed, they
help to support her, in proportion as they are specifically
lighter than the water. And it should be remembered, that
the largest body of a ship may be so balanced in the water,
that an ounce less or more of weight may leave her at the sur-
face or sink her to the bottom. There are also certain heavy
cargoes, that, when the water gets at them, are continually
dissolving, and thereby lightening the vessel, such as salt and
sugar. And as to water-casks, mentioned above, since the

1785] MARITIME OBSERVATIONS 381

quantity of them must be great in ships of war, where the
number of men consume a great deal of water every day, if it
had been made a constant rule to bung them up as fast as
they were emptied, and to dispose the empty casks in proper
situations, I am persuaded that many ships which have been
sunk in engagements, or have gone down afterwards, might
with the unhappy people have been saved ; as well as many
of those which in the last war foundered, and were never
heard of. While on this topic of sinking, one cannot help
recollecting the well-known practice of the Chinese, to divide
the hold of a great ship into a number of separate chambers
by partitions tight caulked (of which you gave a model in your
boat upon the Seine), so that, if a leak should spring in one
of them, the others are not affected by it; and, though that
chamber should fill to a level with the sea, it would not be
sufficient to sink the vessel. We have not imitated this prac-
tice. Some little disadvantage it might occasion in the stow-
age, is perhaps one reason, though that I think might be more
than compensated by an abatement in the insurance that
would be reasonable, and by a higher price taken of passen-
gers, who would rather prefer going in such a vessel. But our
seafaring people are brave, despise danger, and reject such
precautions of safety, being cowards only in one sense, that
of Bearing to be thought ajraid.

I promised to finish my letter with the last observation,
but the garrulity of the old man has got hold of me, and, as I
may never have another occasion of writing on this subject,
I think I may as well now, once for all, empty my nautical
budget, and give you all the thoughts that have in my
various long voyages occurred to me relating to navigation.
I am sure, that in you they will meet with a candid judge,

382 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1785

who will excuse my mistakes on account of my good inten-
tion.

There are six accidents, that may occasion the loss of ships
at sea. We have considered one of them, that of foundering
by a leak. The other five are, i. Oversetting by sudden
flaws of wind, or by carrying sail beyond the bearing.
2. Fire by accident or carelessness. 3. A heavy stroke of
lightning, making a breach in the ship, or firing the powder.

4. Meeting and shocking with other ships in the night.

5. Meeting in the night with islands of ice.

To that of oversetting, privateers in their first cruise have,
as far as has fallen within my knowledge or information, been
more subject than any other kind of vessels. The double
desire of being able to overtake a weaker flying enemy, or
to escape when pursued by a stronger, has induced the
owners to overmast their cruizers, and to spread too much
canvas ; and the great number of men, many of them not sea-
men, who, being upon deck when a ship heels suddenly, are
huddled down to leeward, and increase by their weight the
effect of the wind. This therefore should be more attended
to and guarded against, especially as the advantage of lofty
masts is problematical. For the upper sails have greater
power to lay a vessel more on her side, which is not the most
advantageous position for going swiftly through the water.
And hence it is, that vessels, which have lost their lofty masts,
and been able to make little more sail afterwards than per-
mitted the ship to sail upon an even keel, have made so much
way, even under jury masts, as to surprise the mariners them-
selves. But there is, besides, something in the modern form
of our ships, that seems as if calculated expressly to allow
their oversetting more easily. The sides of a ship, instead of

1785] MARITIME OBSERVATIONS 383

spreading out as they formerly did in the upper works, are
of late years turned in, so as to make the body nearly round,
and more resembling a cask. I do not know what the ad-
vantages of this construction are, except that such ships are
not easily boarded. To me it seems a contrivance to have less
room in a ship at nearly the same expense. For it is evident,
that the same timber and plank consumed in raising the sides
from a to ft, and from d to c, would have raised them from a to
e, and from d to /, fig. 9. In this form all the spaces between
e, a, by and c, d, /, would have been gained, the deck would
have been larger, the men would have had more room to act,
and not have stood so thick in the way of the enemy's shot ;
and the vessel, the more she was laid down on her side, the more
bearing she would meet with, and more effectual to support
her, as being farther from the centre. Whereas, in the pres-
ent form, her ballast makes the chief part of her bearing,
without which she would turn in the sea almost as easily as a
barrel. More ballast by this means becomes necessary, and
that, sinking a vessel deeper in the water, occasions more re-
sistance to her going through it. The Bermudian sloops still
keep with advantage to the old spreading form.

The islanders in the great Pacific ocean, though they have
no large ships, are the most expert boat-sailors in the world,
navigating that sea safely with their proas, which they prevent
oversetting by various means. Their sailing proas for this
purpose have outriggers generally to windward, above the
water, on which, one or more men are placed, to move occa-
sionally further from or nearer to the vessel as the wind
freshens or slackens. But some have their outriggers to
leeward, which, resting on the water, support the boat so as
to keep her upright when pressed down by the wind. Their

384 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1785

boats, moved by oars or rather by paddles, are, for long
voyages, fixed two together by cross bars of wood that keep
them at some distance from each other, and so render their
oversetting next to impossible. How far this may be prac-
ticable in larger vessels, we have not yet sufficient experience.
I know of but one trial made in Europe, which was about one
hundred years since, by Sir William Petty. He built a double
vessel, to serve as a pacquet-boat between England and Ire-
land. Her model still exists in the museum of the Royal
Society, where I have seen it. By the accounts we have of
her, she answered well the purpose of her construction, mak-
ing several voyages ; and, though wrecked at last by a storm,
the misfortune did not appear owing to her particular con-
struction, since many other vessels of the common form were
wrecked at the same time. The advantage of such a vessel
is, that she needs no ballast, therefore swims either lighter
or will carry more goods; and that passengers are not so
much incommoded by her rolling; to which may be added,
that if she is to defend herself by her cannon, they will prob-
ably have more effect, being kept more generally in a horizontal
position, than those in common vessels. I think, however,
that it would be an improvement of that model, to make the
sides which are opposed to each other perfectly parallel,
though the other sides are formed as in common, thus,
figure 10.

The building of a double ship would indeed be more ex-
pensive in proportion to her burthen ; and that perhaps is
sufficient to discourage the method.

The accident of fire is generally well guarded against by the
prudent captain's strict orders against smoking between decks,
or carrying a candle there out of a lantern. But there is one

1785] MARITIME OBSERVATIONS 385

dangerous practice which frequent terrible accidents have
not yet been sufficient to abolish ; that of carrying store spirits
to sea hi casks. Two large ships, the Seraphis and the Duke
oj Athol, one an East Indiaman, the other a frigate, have been
burnt within these two last years, and many lives miserably
destroyed, by drawing spirits out of a cask near a candle.
It is high time to make it a general rule, that all the ship's
store of spirits should be carried in bottles.

The misfortune by a stroke of lightning I have in my former
writings endeavoured to show a method of guarding against,
by a chain and pointed rod, extending, when run up, from
above the top of the mast to the sea. These instruments are
now made and sold at a reasonable price by Nairne &* Co.
in London, and there are several instances of success attend-
ing the use of them. They are kept in a box, and may be run
up and fixed in about five minutes, on the apparent approach
of a thunder-gust.

Of the meeting and shocking with other ships in the night,
I have known two instances in voyages between London and
America. In one, both ships arrived, though much damaged,
each reporting their belief that the other most have gone to the
bottom. In the other, only one got to port; the other was
never afterwards heard of. These instances happened many
years ago, when the commerce between Europe and America
was not a tenth part of what it is at present, ships of course
thinner scattered, and the chance of meeting proportionably
less. It has long been the practice to keep a look-out before
in the channel, but at sea it has been neglected. If it is not at
present thought worth while to take that precaution, it will
in time become of more consequence; since the number of
ships at sea is continually augmenting. A drum frequently

VOL. IX — 3C

386 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1785

beat, or a bell rung in a dark night, might help to prevent such
accidents.

Islands of ice are frequently seen off the banks of New-
foundland by ships going between North America and Europe.
In the day time they are easily avoided, unless in a very thick
fog. I remember two instances of ships running against them
in the night. The first lost her bowsprit, but received little
other damage. The other struck where the warmth of the
sea had wasted the ice next to it, and a part hung over above.
This perhaps saved her, for she was under great way; but
the upper part of the cliff, taking her foretopmast, broke the
shock, though it carried away the mast. She disengaged her-
self with some difficulty, and got safe into port ; but the acci-
dent shows the possibility of other ships being wrecked and
sunk by striking those vast masses of ice, of which I have seen
one that we judged to be seventy feet high above the water,
consequently eight times as much under water; and it is
another reason for keeping a good look-out before, though far
from any coast that may threaten danger.

It is remarkable, that the people we consider as savages,
have improved the art of sailing and rowing boats in several
points beyond what we can pretend to.

We have no sailing boats equal to the flying proas of the
South Seas, no rowing or paddling boat equal to that of the
Greenlanders, for swiftness and safety. The birch canoes of
the North American Indians have also some advantageous
properties. They are so light that two men may carry one of
them over land, which is capable of carrying a dozen upon the
water; and in heeling they are not so subject to take in water
as our boats, the sides of which are lowest in the middle where
it is most likely to enter, this being highest in that part, as in
figure ii.

1785] MARITIME OBSERVATIONS 387

The Chinese are an enlightened people, the most antiently
civilized of any existing, and their arts are antient, a presump-
tion in their favour ; their method of rowing their boats differs
from ours, the oars being worked either two a- stern, as we
scull, or on the sides with the same kind of motion, being hung
parallel to the keel on a rail, and always acting in the water,
not perpendicular to the side, as ours are, nor lifted out at
every stroke, which is a loss of time, and the boat in the inter-
val loses motion. They see our manner, and we theirs, but
neither are disposed to learn of or copy the other.

To the several means of moving boats mentioned above,
may be added the singular one lately exhibited at Javelle,
on the Seine below Paris, where a clumsy boat was moved
across that river in three minutes by rowing, not in the water,
but in the air, that is, by whirling round a set of windmill
vanes fixed to a horizontal axis, parallel to the keel, and placed
at the head of the boat. The axis was bent into an elbow at
the end, by the help of which it was turned by one man at a
time. I saw the operation at a distance. The four vanes
appeared to be about five feet long, and perhaps two and a
half wide. The weather was calm. The labour appeared
to be great for one man, as the two several times relieved each
other. But the action upon the air by the oblique surfaces
of the vanes must have been considerable, as the motion of the
boat appeared tolerably quick going and returning; and she
returned to the same place from whence she first set out, not-
withstanding the current. This machine is since applied to
the moving of air-balloons: An instrument similar may be
contrived to move a boat by turning under water.

Several mechanical projectors have at different times pro-
posed to give motion to boats, and even to ships, by means of

388 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1785

circular rowing, or paddles placed on the circumference of
wheels to be turned constantly on each side of the vessel;
but this method, though frequently tried, has never been found
so effectual as to encourage a continuance of the practice.
I do not know that the reason has hitherto been given. Per-
haps it may be this, that great part of the force employed con-
tributes little to the motion. For instance, (fig. 12) of the four
paddles a, b, c, d, all under water, and turning to move a boat
from X to Y, c has the most power, b nearly though not quite
as much, their motion being nearly horizontal ; but the force
employed in moving #, is consumed in pressing almost down-
right upon the water till it comes to the place of b ; and the
force employed in moving d is consumed in lifting the water
till d arrives at the surface ; by which means much of the la-
bour is lost. It is true, that by placing the wheels higher out
of the water, this waste labour will be diminished in a calm,
but where a sea runs, the wheels must unavoidably be often
dipped deep in the waves, and the turning of them thereby
rendered very laborious to little purpose.

Among the various means of giving motion to a boat, that
of M. Bernoulli appears one of the most singular, which was
to have fixed in the boat a tube in the form of an L, the upright
part to have a funnel- kind of opening at top, convenient for
filling the tube with water; which, descending and passing
through the lower horizontal part, and issuing in the middle
of the stern, but under the surface of the river, should push the
boat forward. There is no doubt that the force of the de-
scending water would have a considerable effect, greater in
proportion to the height from which it descended ; but then it
is to be considered, that every bucket-full pumped or dipped
up into the boat, from its side or through its bottom, must have

1785] MARITIME OBSERVATIONS 389

its vis inertia overcome so as to receive the motion of the boat,
before it can come to give motion by its descent ; and that will
be a deduction from the moving power. To remedy this, I
would propose the addition of another such L pipe, and that
they should stand back to back in the boat thus, figure 13;
the forward one being worked as a pump, and sucking in the
water at the head of the boat, would draw it forward while
pushed in the same direction by the force at the stern. And
after all it should be calculated whether the labour of pumping
would be less than that of rowing. A fire-engine might pos-
sibly in some cases be applied in this operation with advan-
tage.

Perhaps this labour of raising water might be spared, and
the whole force of a man applied to the moving of a boat by
the use of air instead of water. Suppose the boat constructed
in this form, figure 14. A, a tube round or square of two feet
diameter, in which a piston may move up and down. The
piston to have valves in it, opening inwards to admit air when
the piston rises ; and shutting, when it is forced down by means
of the lever B turning on the centre C. The tube to have a
valve Z>, to open when the piston is forced down, and let the
air pass out at £, which striking forcibly against the water
abaft must push the boat forward. If there is added an air-
vessel F properly valved and placed, the force would continue
to act while a fresh stroke is taken with the lever. The boat-
man might stand with his back to the stern, and putting his
hands behind him, work the motion by taking hold of the
cross bar at By while another should steer ; or, if he had two
such pumps, one on each side of the stern, with a lever for
each hand, he might steer himself by working occasionally
more or harder with either hand, as watermen now do with

390 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1785

a pair of sculls. There is no position in which the body of
a man can exert more strength than in pulling right up-
wards.

To obtain more swiftness, greasing the bottom of a vessel
is sometimes used, and with good effect. I do not know
that any writer has hitherto attempted to explain this. At
first sight, one would imagine, that, though the friction of a
hard body, sliding on another hard body, and the resistance
occasioned by that friction, might be diminished by putting
grease between them, yet that a body sliding on a fluid, such
as water, should have no need of, nor receive, any advantage
from such greasing. But the fact is not disputed. And the
reason perhaps may be this. The particles of water have a
mutual attraction, called the attraction of adhesion. Water
also adheres to wood, and to many other substances, but not
to grease ; on the contrary they have a mutual repulsion, so
that it is a question whether when oil is poured on water, they
ever actually touch each other ; for a drop of oil upon water,
instead of sticking to the spot where it falls, as it would if it
fell on a looking-glass, spreads instantly to an immense dis-
tance in a film extremely thin, which it could not easily do if
it touched and rubbed or adhered even in a small degree to
the surface of the water. Now the adhesive force of water
to itself, and to other substances, may be estimated from the
weight of it necessary to separate a drop, which adheres,
while growing, till it has weight enough to force the separation
and break thedrop'off. Let us suppose the drop to be the size
of a pea ;- then there will be as many of these adhesions as
there are drops of that size touching the bottom of a vessel,
and these must be broken by the moving power, every step
of her motion that amounts to a drop's breadth ; and there

1785] MARITIME OBSERVATIONS 391

being no such adhesions to break between the water and a
greased bottom, may occasion the difference.

So much respecting the motion of vessels. But we have
sometimes occasion to stop their motion; and, if a bottom
is near enough, we can cast anchor. Where there are no
soundings, we have as yet no means to prevent driving in a
storm, but by lying-to, which still permits driving at the rate
of about two miles an hour; so that in a storm continuing
fifty hours, which is not an uncommon case, the ship may drive
one hundred miles out of her course ; and should she in that
distance meet with a lee shore, she may be lost.

To prevent this driving to leeward in deep water, a swim-
ming anchor is wanting, which ought to have these proper-
ties.

1. It should have a surface so large as, being at the end of
a hauser in the water, and placed perpendicularly, should hold
so much of it, as to bring the ship's head to the wind, in which
situation the wind has least power to drive her.

2. It should be able by its resistance to prevent the ship's
receiving way.

3. It should be capable of being situated below the heave
of the sea, but not below the undertow.

4. It should not take up much room in the ship.

5. It should be easily thrown out, and put into its proper
situation.

6. It should be easy to take in again, and stow away.

An ingenious old mariner, whom I formerly knew, proposed
as a swimming anchor for a large ship, to have a stem of wood
twenty-five feet long and four inches square, with four boards
of 1 8, 1 6, 14, and 12, feet long, and one foot wide, the boards
to have their substance thickened several inches in the middle

392 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1785

by additional wood, and to have each a four inch square hole
through its middle, to permit its being slipped on occasionally
upon the stem, and at right angles with it ; where, all being
placed and fixed at four feet distance from each other, it
would have the appearance of the old mathematical instru-
ment called a forestall. This thrown into the sea, and held
by a hauser veered out to some length, he conceived would
bring a vessel up, and prevent her driving, and when taken
in might be stowed away by separating the boards from the
stem; Figure 15. Probably such a swimming anchor would
have some good effect ; but it is subject to this objection, that,
lying on the surface of the sea, it is liable to be hove forward
by every wave, and thereby give so much leave for the ship to
drive.

Two machines for this purpose have occurred to me, which,
though not so simple as the above, I imagine would be more
effectual, and more easily manageable. I will endeavour to
describe them, that they may be submitted to your judgment,
whether either would be serviceable ; and, if they would, to
which we should give the preference.

The first is to be formed, and to be used in the water on
almost the same principles with those of a paper kite used in
the air. Only, as the paper kite rises in the air, this is to
descend in the water. Its dimensions will be different for
ships of different size.

To make one of suppose fifteen feet high ; take a small spar
of that length for the backbone, A B, figure 16, a smaller of
half that length C D, for the cross piece. Let these be united
by a bolt at £, yet so as that by turning on the bolt they may
be laid parallel to each other. Then make a sail of strong can-
vas, in the shape of figure 17. To form this, without waste of

1785] MARITIME OBSERVATION'S 393

sailcloth, sew together pieces of the proper length, and for
half the breadth, as in figure 18, then cut the whole in the
diagonal lines, a, b, c, and turn the piece F so as to place its
broad part opposite to that of the piece G, and the piece H
in like manner opposite to /, which when all sewed together
will appear as in figure 17. This sail is to be extended on the
cross of figure 16, the top and bottom points well secured to
the ends of the long spar ; the two side points, d, e, fastened
to the ends of two cords, which, coming from the angle of the
loop (which must be similar to the loop of a kite), pass through
two rings at the ends of the short spar, so as that on pulling
upon the loop the sail will be drawn to its extent. The whole
may, when aboard, be furled up, as in figure 19, having a rope
from its broad end, to which is tied a bag of ballast for keeping
that end downwards when in the water, and at the other end
another rope with an empty keg at its end to float on the sur-
face; this rope long enough to permit the kite's descending
into the undertow, or if you please lower into still water. It
should be held by a hauser. To get it home easily, a small
loose rope may be veered out with it, fixed to the keg. Haul-
ing on that rope will bring the kite home with small force,
the resistance being small, as it will then come endways.

It seems probable that such a kite at the end of a long
hauser would keep a ship with her head to the wind, and,
resisting every tug, would prevent her driving so fast as when
her side is exposed to it, and nothing to hold her back. If
only half the driving is prevented, so as that she moves but
fifty miles instead of the hundred during a storm, it may be
some advantage, both in holding so much distance as is saved,
and in keeping from a lee-shore. If single canvas should not
be found strong enough to bear the tug without splitting,

394 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN1 FRANKLIN [1785

it may be doubled, or strengthened by a netting behind it,
represented by figure 20.

The other machine for the same purpose is to be made more
in the form of an umbrella, as represented figure 21. The
stem of the umbrella, a square spar of proper length, with four
movable arms, of which two are represented C, C, figure 22.
These arms to be fixed in four joint cleats, as D, D, &c.,
one on each side of the spar, but so as that the four arms may
open by turning on a pin in the joint. When open, they form
a cross, on which a four-square canvas sail is to be extended,
its corners fastened to the ends of the four arms. Those ends
are also to be stayed by ropes fastened to the stem or spar,
so as to keep them short of being at right angles with it ; and
to the end of one of the arms should be hung the small bag of
ballast, and to the end of the opposite arm the empty keg.
This, on being thrown into the sea, would immediately open ;
and when it had performed its function, and the storm over,
a small rope from its other end being pulled on, would turn it,
close it, and draw it easily home to the ship. This machine
seems more simple in its operation, and more easily manage-
able than the first, and perhaps may be as effectual.1

Vessels are sometimes retarded, and sometimes forwarded
in their voyages, by currents at sea, which are often not per-
ceived. About the year 1769 or 70, there was an application
made by the Board of Customs at Boston, to the Lords of
the Treasury in London, complaining that the packets be-
tween Falmouth and New York were generally a fortnight

1 Captain Truxtun, on board whose ship this was written, has executed this
proposed machine ; he has given six arms to the umbrella, they are joined to
the stem by iron hinges, and the canvas is double. He has taken it with him
to China. February, 1786. — F.

1785] MARITIME OBSERVATIONS 395

longer in their passages, than merchant ships from London to
Rhode Island, and proposing that for the future they should
be ordered to Rhode Island instead of New York. Being
then concerned in the management of the American post-
office, I happened to be consulted on the occasion; and it
appearing strange to me, that there should be such a differ-
ence between two places scarce a day's run asunder, especially
when the merchant ships are generally deeper laden, and more
weakly manned than the packets, and had from London the
whole length of the river and channel to run before they left
the land of England, while the packets had only to go from
Falmouth, I could not but think the fact misunderstood or
misrepresented. There happened then to be in London a
Nantucket sea captain of my acquaintance, to whom I com-
municated the affair. He told me he believed the fact might
be true ; but the difference was owing to this, that the Rhode
Island captains were acquainted with the Gulf Stream,
which those of the English packets were not. "We are well
acquainted with that stream," says he, "because in our pur-
suit of whales, which keep near the sides of it, but are not to
be met with in it, we run down along the sides, and frequently
cross it to change our side ; and in crossing it have sometimes
met and spoke with those packets, who were in the middle
of it, and stemming it. We have informed them that they
were stemming a current, that was against them to the value
of three miles an hour; and advised them to cross it and get
out of it ; but they were too wise to be counselled by simple
American fishermen. When the winds are but light," he
added, "they are carried back by the current more than they
are forwarded by the wind ; and, if the wind be good, the
subtraction of seventy miles a day from their course is of

396 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1785

some importance." I then observed it was a pity no notice
was taken of this current upon the charts, and requested him
to mark it out for me, which he readily complied with, adding
directions for avoiding it in sailing from Europe to North
America. I procured it to be engraved by order from the
general post-office, on the old chart of the Atlantic, at Mount
and Page's, Tower Hill ; and copies were sent down to Fal-
mouth for the captains of the packets, who slighted it how-
ever; but it is since printed in France, of which edition I
hereto annex a copy. [See Plate XIII.]

This stream is probably generated by the great accumula-
tion of water on the eastern coast of America between the
tropics, by the trade winds which constantly blow there. It
is known, that a large piece of water ten miles broad and
generally only three feet deep, has by a strong wind had its
waters driven to one side and sustained so as to become six
feet deep, while the windward side was laid dry. This may
give some idea of the quantity heaped up on the American
coast, and the reason of its running down in a strong cur-
rent through the islands into the bay of Mexico, and from
thence issuing through the Gulph of Florida, and proceeding
along the coast to the banks of Newfoundland, where it
turns off towards and runs down through the Western Islands.
Having since crossed this stream several times in passing
between America and Europe, I have been attentive to sun-
dry circumstances relating to it, by which to know when one
is in it ; and besides the gulf weed with which it is interspersed,
I find, that it is always warmer than the sea on each side of it,
and that it does not sparkle in the night. I annex hereto the
observations made with the thermometer in two voyages,
and possibly may add a third. It will appear from them,

1785] MARITIME OBSERVATIONS 397

that the thermometer may be a useful instrument to a navi-
gator, since currents coming from the northward into southern
seas will probably be found colder than the water of those seas,
as the currents from southern seas into northern are found
warmer. And it is not to be wondered, that so vast a body
of deep warm water, several leagues wide, coming from
between the tropics and issuing out of the gulph into the
northern seas, should retain its warmth longer than the
twenty or thirty days required to its passing the banks of
Newfoundland. The quantity is too great, and it is too deep
to be suddenly cooled by passing under a cooler air. The
air immediately over it, however, may receive so much warmth
from it as to be rarefied and rise, being rendered lighter than
the air on each side of the stream; hence those airs must
flow in to supply the place of the rising warm air, and, meet-
ing with each other, form those tornados and waterspouts
frequently met with, and seen near and over the stream ; and
as the vapour from a cup of tea in a warm room, and the
breath of an animal in the same room, are hardly visible,
but become sensible immediately when out in the cold air,
so the vapour from the gulph stream, in warm latitudes, is
scarcely visible, but when it comes into the cool air from New-
foundland, it is condensed into the fogs, for which those parts
are so remarkable.

The power of wind to raise water above its common level in
the sea is known to us in America, by the high tides occa-
sioned in all our seaports when a strong northeaster blows
against the Gulf Stream.

The conclusion from these remarks is, that a vessel from
Europe to North America may shorten her passage by avoid-
ing to stem the stream, in which the thermometer will be very

398 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1785

useful ; and a vessel from America to Europe may do the same
by the same means of keeping in it. It may have often hap-
pened accidentally, that voyages have been shortened by these
circumstances. It is well to have the command of them.1

Would it not be a more secure method of planking ships,
if, instead of thick single planks laid horizontally, we were
to use planks of half the thickness, and lay them double and
across each other, as in figure 23 ? To me it seems that the
difference of expense would not be considerable, and that the
ship would be both tighter and stronger.

The securing of the ship is not the only necessary thing;
securing the health of the sailors, a brave and valuable order
of men, is likewise of great importance. With this view the
methods so successfully practised by Captain Cook, in his
long voyages, cannot be too closely studied or carefully imi-
tated. A full account of those methods is found in Sir John
Pringle's speech, when the medal of the Royal Society was
given to that illustrious navigator. I am glad to see in his last
voyage, that he found the means effectual, which I had pro-
posed for preserving flour, bread, &c., from moisture and
damage. They were found dry and good after being at sea
four years. The method is described in my printed works,
page 452, fifth edition. In the same, page 469, 470, is pro-
posed a means of allaying thirst in case of want of fresh water.
This has since been practised in two instances with success.
Happy if their hunger, when the other provisions are con-
sumed, could be relieved as commodiously ; and perhaps in
time this may be found not impossible. An addition might
be made to their present vegetable provision, by drying

1 Here a paragraph is omitted. It relates to the retarding of westward-
bound vessels, by the diurnal motion of the earth. See Vol. I, p. 83. — ED.

1785] MARITIME OBSERVATIONS 399

various roots in slices by the means of an oven. The sweet
potatoe of America and Spain is excellent for this purpose.
Other potatoes, with carrots, parsnips, and turnips, might be
prepared and preserved in the same manner.

With regard to make-shifts in cases of necessity, seamen
are generally very ingenious themselves. They will excuse,
however, the mention of two or three. If they happen in any
circumstance, such as after shipwreck, taking to their boat,
or the like, to want a compass, a fine sewing needle laid on
clear water in a cup will generally point to the north, most of
them being a little magnetical, or may be made so by being
strongly rubbed or hammered, lying in a north and south
direction. If their needle is too heavy to float by itself, it
may be supported by little pieces of cork or wood. A man
who can swim, may be aided in a long traverse by his handker-
chief formed into a kite, by two cross sticks extending to the
four corners ; which, being raised in the air when the wind is
fair and fresh, will tow him along while lying on his back.
Where force is wanted to move a heavy body, and there are
but few hands and no machines, a long and strong rope may
make a powerful instrument. Suppose a boat is to be drawn
up on a beach, that she may be out of the surf ; a stake drove
into the beach where you would have the boat drawn, and
another to fasten the end of the rope to, which comes from the
boat, and then applying what force you have to pull upon the
middle of the rope at right angles with it, the power will be
augmented in proportion to the length of rope between the
posts. The rope being fastened to the stake, A, and drawn
upon in the direction, C D, will slide over the stake B ; and
when the rope is bent to the angle, A D B, represented by the
pricked line in figure 24, the boat will be at B.

400 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1785

Some sailors may think the writer has given himself un-
necessary trouble in pretending to advise them; for they
have a little repugnance to the advice of landmen, whom they
esteem ignorant and incapable of giving any worth notice ;
though it is certain that most of their instruments were the
invention of landmen. At least the first vessel ever made to
go on the water was certainly such. I will therefore add only
a few words more, and they shall be addressed to passengers.

When you intend a long voyage, you may do well to keep
your intention as much as possible a secret, or at least the
time of your departure; otherwise you will be continually
interrupted in your preparations by the visits of friends and
acquaintance,who will not only rob you of the time you want,
but put things out of your mind, so that when you come to sea,
you have the mortification to recollect points of business that
ought to have been done, accounts you intended to settle,
and conveniences you had proposed to bring with you, &c.
&c., all which have been omitted through the effect of these
officious friendly visits. Would it not be well if this custom
could be changed ; if the voyager, after having, without in-
terruption, made all his preparations, should use some of
the time he has left, in going himself to take leave of his
friends at their own houses, and let them come to congratulate
him on his happy return?

It is not always in your power to make a choice in your
captain, though much of your comfort in the passage may
depend on his personal character, as you must for so long a
time be confined to his company, and under his direction;
if he be a sensible, sociable, good-natured, obliging man,
you will be so much the happier. Such there are ; but, if he
happens to be otherwise, and is only skilful, careful, watch-

1785] MARITIME OBSERVATIONS 401

ful, and active in the conduct of his ship, excuse the rest, for
these are the essentials.

Whatever right you may have by agreement in the mass
of stores laid in by him for the passengers, it is good to have
some particular things in your own possession, so as to be
always at your own command.

i. Good water, that of the ship being often bad. You
can be sure of having it good only by bottling it from a clear
spring or well, and in clean bottles. 2. Good tea. 3. Cof-
fee ground. 4. Chocolate. 5. Wine of the sort you
particularly like, and cider. 6. Raisins. 7. Almonds.
8. Sugar. 9. Capillaire. 10. Lemons, u. Jamaica spirits.
12. Eggs, greas'd. 13. Diet bread. 14. Portable soup.
15. Rusks. As to fowls, it is not worth while to have any
called yours, unless you could have the feeding and managing
of them according to your own judgment, under your own eye.
As they are generally treated at present in ships, they are for
the most part sick, and their flesh tough and hard as whit-
leather. All seamen have an opinion, broached I suppose
at first prudently, for saving of water when short, that fowls
do not know when they have drunk enough, and will kill
themselves if you give them too much, so they are served
with a little only once in two days. This is poured into
troughs that lie sloping, and therefore immediately runs
down to the lower end. There the fowls ride upon one
another's backs to get at it, and 'some are not happy enough
to reach and once dip their bills in it. Thus tantalized, and
tormented with thirst, they cannot digest their dry food,
they fret, pine, sicken, and die. Some are found dead, and
thrown overboard every morning, and those killed for the
table are not eatable. Their troughs should be in little divi-

VOL. IX — 2 D

402 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1785

sions, like cups, to hold the water separately, figure 25. But
this is never done. The sheep and hogs are therefore your
best dependence for fresh meat at sea, the mutton being
generally tolerable and the pork excellent.

It is possible your captain may have provided so well in the
general stores, as to render some of the particulars above
recommended of little or no use to you. But there are fre-
quently in the ship poorer passengers, who are taken at a
lower price, lodge in the steerage, and have no claim to any
of the cabin provisions, or to any but those kinds that are
allowed the sailors. These people are sometimes dejected,
sometimes sick; there may be women and children among
them. In a situation where there is no going to market
to purchase such necessaries, a few of these your superfluities,
distributed occasionally, may be of great service, restore
health, save life, make the miserable happy, and thereby
afford you infinite pleasure.

The worst thing in ordinary merchant ships is the cookery.
They have no professed cook, and the worst hand as a sea-
man is appointed to that office, in which he is not only very
ignorant but very dirty. The sailors have therefore a saying,
that God sends meatj and the Devil cooks. Passengers more
piously disposed, and willing to believe Heaven orders all
things fof^the best, may suppose, that, knowing the sea air
and constant exercise by the motion of the vessel would give
us extraordinary appetites, bad cooks were kindly sent to
prevent our eating too much; or that, foreseeing we should
have bad cooks, good appetites were furnished to prevent our
starving. If you cannot trust to these circumstances, a spirit-
lamp, with a blaze-pan, may enable you to cook some little
things for yourself; such as a hash, a soup, &c. And it

1785] MARITIME OBSERVATIONS 403

might be well also to have among your stores some potted
meats, which, if well put up, will keep long good. A small
tin oven, to place with the open side before the fire, may be
another good utensil, in which your own servant may roast
for you a bit of pork or mutton. You will sometimes be in-
duced to eat of the ship's salt beef, as it is often good. You
will find cyder the best quencher of that thirst, which salt
meat or fish occasions. The ship biscuit is too hard for
some sets of teeth. It may be softened by toasting. But
rusk is better; for being made of good fermented bread,
sliced and baked a second time, the pieces imbibe the water
easily, soften immediately, digest more kindly, and are there-
fore more wholesome than the unfermented biscuit. By the
way, rusk is the true original biscuit, so prepared to keep for
sea, biscuit in French signifying twice baked. If your dry
peas boil hard, a two pound iron shot put with them into the
pot will, by the motion of the ship, grind them as fine as mus-
tard.

The accidents I have seen at sea with large dishes of soup
upon a table, from the motion of the ship, have made me wish
that our potters or pewterers would make soup dishes in
divisions, like a set of small bowls united together, each
containing about sufficient for one person, in some such form
as figure 26 ; for then, when the ship should make a sudden
heel, the soup would not in a body flow over one side, and fall
into people's laps and scald them, as is sometimes the case,
but would be retained in the separate divisions, as in figure 27.

After these trifles, permit the addition of a few general
reflections. Navigation, when employed in supplying neces-
sary provisions to a country in want, and thereby preventing
famines, which were more frequent and destructive before the

404 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1785

invention of that art, is undoubtedly a blessing to mankind.
When employed merely in transporting superfluities, it is a
question whether the advantage of the employment it affords
is equal to the mischief of hazarding so many lives on the
ocean. But when employed in pillaging merchants and
transporting slaves, it is clearly the means of augmenting
the mass of human misery. It is amazing to think of the
ships and lives risked in fetching tea from China, coffee from
Arabia, sugar and tobacco from America, all which our
ancestors did well without. Sugar employs near one thou-
sand ships, tobacco almost as many. For the utility of
tobacco there is little to be said ; and for that of sugar, how
much more commendable would it be, if we could give up the
few minutes' gratification afforded once or twice a day by
the taste of sugar in our tea, rather than encourage the
cruelties exercised in producing it. An eminent French
moralist says, that when he considers the wars we excite in
Africa to obtain slaves, the numbers necessarily slain in those
wars, the many prisoners who perish at sea by sickness, bad
provisions, foul air, &c. &c., in the transportation, and how
many afterwards die from the hardships of slavery, he can-
not look on a piece of sugar without conceiving it stained
with spots of human blood ! Had he added the considera-
tion of the wars we make to take and retake the sugar islands
from one another, and the fleets and armies that perish in
those expeditions, he might have seen his sugar not merely
spotted, but thoroughly dyed scarlet in grain. It is these
wars, that make the maritime powers of Europe, the inhabit-
ants of London and Paris, pay dearer for sugar than those
of Vienna, a thousand miles from the sea; because their
sugar costs not only the price they pay for it by the pound,

1785] MARITIME OBSERVATIONS 405

but all they pay in taxes to maintain the fleets and armies
that fight for it.

With great esteem, I am, Sir,

Your most obedient humble servant,

B. FRANKLIN.

APPENDIX TO THE ABOVE LETTER

Remarks upon the Navigation jrom Newfoundland to New
York, in Order to avoid the Gulf Stream on one Hand, and,
on the other, the Shoals that lie to the southward of Nan-
tucket and of St. George's Banks.

READ AT A MEETING OF THE AMERICAN PHILOSOPHICAL SOCIETY, DECEMBER

*, 1785.

AFTER you have passed the banks of Newfoundland in about
the forty-fourth degree of latitude, you will meet with nothing,
till you draw near the Isle of Sables, which we commonly
pass in latitude 43°. Southward of this Isle, the current is
found to extend itself as far north as 41° 20' or 30', then it
turns towards the E. S. E. or S. E. \ E.

Having passed the Isle of Sables, shape your course for the
St. George's Banks, so as to pass them in about latitude 40°,
because the current southward of those banks reaches as far
north as 39°. The shoals of those banks lie in 41° 35'.

After having passed St. George's Banks, you must, to
clear Nantucket, form your course so as to pass between the
latitudes 38° 30' and 40° 45'.

The most southern part of the shoals of Nantucket lie in
about 40° 45'. The northern part of the current directly to
the south of Nantucket is felt in about latitude 38° 30'.

406 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1785

By observing these directions, and keeping between the
stream and the shoals, the passage from the Banks of New-
foundland to New York, Delaware, or Virginia, may be con-
siderably shortened; for so you will have the advantage of
the eddy current, which moves contrary to the Gulf Stream.
Whereas, if to avoid the shoals you keep too far to the south-
ward, and get into that stream, you will be retarded by it at
the rate of sixty or seventy miles a day.

The Nantucket whalemen being extremely well acquainted
with the Gulf Stream, its course, strength, and extent, by
their constant practice of whaling on the edges of it, from
their island quite down to the Bahamas, this draft of that
stream [Plate XIII.] was obtained from one of them, Captain
Folger, and caused to be engraved on the old chart in London,
for the benefit of navigators, by

B. FRANKLIN.

NOTE. The Nantucket captains, who are acquainted with
this stream, make their voyages from England to Boston in as
short a time generally as others take in going from Boston to
England, viz. from twenty to thirty days.

A stranger may know when he is in the Gulf Stream, by the
warmth of the water, which is much greater than that of the
water on each side of it. If then he is bound to the westward,
he should cross the stream to get out of it as soon as possible.

B. FRANKLIN.

Observations of the Warmth of the Sea Water, <5rV., by Fahrenheit's Ther-
mometer, in crossing the Gulph Stream : with other Remarks made on
board the Pennsylvania Packet, Capt. Osborne, bound from London to
Philadelphia, in April and May, 1775.

««
° •

tt J3 ij

--

f i

*

ISlJls

--

£ 1131 1

NGI
W.

LATI

N.

oo

fO

oo

**»

C/5

W

W£'W*

W

c/5

S S S s S s - 58 S - 58 S - 58

'*
Observations of the Warmth of the Sea Water, &V., by Fahrenheit's Ther-
mometer ; with other Remarks made on board the Reprisal, Captain Wickes,
bound from Philadelphia to France, in October and November, 1 776.

I

§•«

Ss

•S^ o

.s-a Q

j^ so

- •§ 6
oo o Q

O VO

to vo 00

to to

co 55

w w

-

ww ^

co

w

W

W co

O >-« 00 >H toOO vOvOvOvOvOvOvOOOvO toto tovo
t^t^r^oo t^.t^t>.t^.t^r>.t^t^r^t>.t<»txt^t^t^

OOOOOOOO
>»vO vO \O *>«

§«:

O OOONOON 0\ OON OONOON
Observations made on board the Reprisal, continued.

REMARKS.
1 *

tSo
lf

o

H

°§. 5. 5.5.5. 5 5 $£:£i£ ££$£$£

l|

^ x O ON « vO oo voooom ^•ro^-«tn»*
»O ^- NvOi-i OO *t \f>-< r^if) ONfOOsONlNm

COURSE.

_ W U(zj(zj U ^ UUUU WWWWWW
•-• 05 oo t^ t^ o « ICoo oo oo oo oo t^ t^ t^

Q
£

W c/5 ^'w U ^ c/j Wc^x^i ww5^S5S5&j

i»|

N< OO ^ *^ >^ ON ONOO O ^ ^^ 2^^ '^ '^^ *^ ^ ^^ ^^Q^^'^QQQ ^ ^

s *. *

* - <

O NO O ** *^ ^o O vO ^

c c c c c .

Is

•^- ^- OTfOrfO^ O it OOOOOO
«>.O O O ^.O OT3POT3"DT3
^ C C G ^C C

K <

OOiNOONOO °*00 00 OOrtOO ONO

P
Q

°* 8 i s i 2 1 1? ? i liri i-i^'S-giNNjr^^wrr^
£
A Journal of a Voyage from the Channel between France and England
towards America in 1 785.

ON "-« Q Q O\
t-» OO 00 OO t-»

IN
$*&

0 VO M M
pj « M M

^ O ^O O t-i
S\5 ^.O OvfO

CO

erf W £ W W W W W

W fc fc fc* 55 fc ^' ^

5? co

OONTj-fO vOOOONONTfir»t>.vOt^ONOOOOO f^

iOVOvOvO^\O>OvO t-.r^t^t^.t^t^t^i>»t^00 t^p^ t>«
D ^

O

VO

f^t^vOvOOO HH O%i Q
t-it^.r^t-*t>.OQ t^OOOO

VOOO O »-i

O ON
t>.t^

M M M M <« f| C«

oo
CO

bb

•?
A Journal of a Voyage, <5rV., continued.

412 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1785

Observations

July 31. At one P.M. the Start bore W. N. W. distant six leagues.
August I. The water appears luminous in the ship's wake.

— 2. The temperature of the water is taken at eight in the morning and at
eight in the evening.

— 6. The water appears less luminous.

— 7. Formegas S. W. distant 32^ degrees. St. Mary's S. W. \ S. 33 leagues.

— 8. From this date the temperature of the water is taken at eight in the
morning and at six in the evening.

— 10. Moonlight, which prevents the luminous appearance of the water.

— ii. A strong southerly current.

— 12. Ditto. From this date the temperature of the air and water was
taken at noon, as well as morning and evening.

— 1 6. Northerly current.

— 19. First saw gulf weed.

— 21. Southerly current.

— 22. Again saw gulf weed.

— 24. The water appeared luminous in a small degree before the moon
rose.

— 29. No moon, yet very little light in the water.

— 30. Much gulf weed to-day.

— 31. Ditto.
September I. Ditto.

— 2. A little more light in the water.

— 4. No gulf weed to-day. More light in the water.

— 5. Some gulf weed again.

— 6. Little light in the water. A very hard thunder-gust in the night.

— 7. Little gulf weed.

— 8. More light in the water. Little gulf weed.

— 9. Little gulf weed. Little light in the water last evening.

— 10. Saw some beds of rock- weed; and we were surprised to observe the
water six degrees colder by the thermometer than the preceding noon.

This day (roth) the thermometer still kept descending, and at five in the
morning of the nth, it was in water as low as 70, when we struck soundings.
The same evening the pilot came on board, and we found our ship about five
degrees of longitude a-head of the reckoning, which our captain accounted
for by supposing our course to have been near the edge of the Gulf Stream,
and thus an eddy-current always in our favour. By the distance we ran from
September 9th, in the evening, till we struck soundings, we must have then
been at the western edge of the Gulf Stream, and the change in the tempera-
ture of the water was probably owing to our suddenly passing from that cur-
rent into the waters of our own climate.

1785] CAUSES AND CURE OF SMOKY CHIMNEYS 413

On the 1 4th of August the following experiment was made. The weather
being perfectly calm, an empty bottle, corked very tight, was sent down 20
fathoms, and it was drawn up still empty. It was then sent down again 35
fathoms, when the weight of the water having forced in the cork, it was
drawn up full; the water it contained was immediately tried by the thermom-
eter, and found to be 70, which was six degrees colder than at the surface;
the lead and bottle were visible, but not very distinctly so, at the depth of 12
fathoms; but, when only 7 fathoms deep, they were perfectly seen from the
ship. This experiment was thus repeated September nth, when we were in
soundings of 1 8 fathoms. A keg was previously prepared with a valve at
each end, one opening inward, the other outward; this was sent to the bottom
in expectation that by the valves being both open when going down, and both
shut when coming up, it would keep within it the water received at bottom.
The upper valve performed its office well, but the under one did not shut
quite close, so that much of the water was lost in hauling it up the ship's
side. As the water in the keg's passage upwards could not enter at the top,
it was concluded that what water remained in it was of that near the ground ;
and, on trying this by the thermometer, it was found to be 58, which was 12
degrees colder than at the surface.

[This last Journal was obligingly kept for me by Mr. J. Williams, my
fellow-passenger in the London Packet, who made all the experiments with
great exactness.]

1598. TO JAN INGENHOUSZ l (L. L.)

ON THE CAUSES AND CURE OF SMOKY CHIMNEYS

At Sea, August 28, 1785
DEAR FRIEND,

In one of your Letters, a little before I left France, you
desire me to give you in Writing my Thoughts upon the Con-
struction and Use of Chimneys, a Subject you had sometimes
heard me touch upon in Conversation. I embrace willingly

1 This letter, which has been published in a separate pamphlet, both in
England and America, first appeared in the Transactions of The American
Philosophical Society, Vol. II, p. I , in which it was read October 2ist,
1785. — ED.

4i4 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1785

this Leisure afforded by my present Situation to comply with
your Request, as it will not only show my Regard to the
Desires of a Friend, but may at the same time be of some
Utility to others ; the Doctrine of Chimneys appearing not to
be as yet generally well understood, and Mistakes respecting
them being attended with constant Inconvenience, if not
remedied, and with fruitless Expence, if the true Remedies
are mistaken.

Those who would be acquainted with this Subject, should
begin by considering on what Principle Smoke ascends in any
Chimney. At first, many are apt to think, that Smoke is in
its Nature and of itself specifically lighter than Air, and rises in
it for the same reason that Cork rises in Water. These see
no Cause why Smoke should not rise in the Chimney, tho'
the Room be ever so close. Others think there is a Power in
Chimneys to draw up the Smoke, and that there are different
forms of Chimneys, which afford more or less of this Power.
These amuse themselves with searching for the best Form.
The equal Dimensions of a Funnel in its whole Length is not
thought Artificial enough, and it is made, for fancied Rea-
sons, sometimes tapering and narrowing from below upwards,
and sometimes the contrary, &c. &c. A simple Experiment
or two may serve to give more correct Ideas. Having lit a
Pipe of Tobacco, plunge the Stem to the Bottom of a De-
canter half fill'd with cold Water ; then putting a Rag over the
Bowl, blow thro' it and make the Smoke descend in the Stem
of the Pipe, from the End of which it will rise in Bubbles
thro' the Water ; and, being thus cool'd, will not afterwards
rise to go out thro' the Neck of the Decanter, but remain
spreading itself and resting on the Surface of the Water.
This shows that Smoke is really heavier than Air, and that

1785] CAUSES AND CURE OF SMOKY CHIMNEYS 415

it is carried upwards only when attach'd to, or acted upon,
by Air that is heated, and thereby rarefied and rendered spe-
cifically lighter than the Air in its Neighbourhood.

Smoke being rarely seen but in company with heated Air,
and its upward Motion being visible, tho' that of the rarefied
air that drives it is not so, has naturally given rise to the
Error.

I need not explain to you, my learned Friend, what is meant
by rarefied Air ; but if you make the public use you propose of
this Letter, it may fall into the Hands of some who are unac-
quainted with the Term and with the Thing. These then
may be told, that air is a Fluid which has Weight as well as
others, tho' about 800 times lighter than Water. That Heat
makes the Particles of Air recede from each other and take up
more Space, so that the same Weight of Air heated will have
more Bulk, than equal Weights of cold Air which may sur-
round it, and in that Case must rise, being forc'd upwards by
such colder and heavier Air, which presses to get under it and
take its Place. That Air is so rarified or expanded by Heat
may be proved to their Comprehension by a lank blown
Bladder, which, laid before a Fire, will soon swell, grow tight,
and burst.

Another Experiment may be, to take a glass Tube about
an Inch in diameter, and 12 Inches long, open at both Ends
and fixed upright on Legs, so that it need not be handled, for
the Hands might warm it. At the End of a Quill fasten 5
or 6 Inches of the finest light filament of Silk, so that it may be
held either above the upper End of the Tube or under the
lower End, your warm Hand being at a distance by the Length
of the Quill. (Plate XIV. Fig. i.) If there were any motion
of Air thro' the Tube, it would manifest itself by its Effect on

416 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1785

the Silk; but, if the Tube and the Air in it are of the same
Temperature with the surrounding Air, there will be no such
Motion, whatever may be the Form of the Tube, whether
crooked or strait, narrow below and widening upwards, or
the contrary, the Air in it will be quiescent. Warm the Tube,
and you will find, as long as it continues warm, a constant
Current of Air, entring below and passing up thro' it, till
discharged at the Top; because the Warmth of the Tube,
being communicated to the Air it contains, rarefies that Air
and makes it lighter than the Air without, which therefore
presses in below, forces it upwards, and follows and takes its
place, and is rarefied in its turn. And without warming the
Tube, if you hold under it a Knob of hot Iron, the Air thereby
heated will rise and fill the Tube, going out at its Top ; and
this Motion in the Tube will continue as long as the Knob
remains hot, because the Air entring the Tube below is
heated and rarefied by passing near and over that Knob.

That this Motion is produc'd merely by the Difference of
Specific Gravity between the Fluid within and that without the
Tube, and not by any fancied Form of the Tube itself, may
appear by plunging it into Water contain'd hi a Glass Jar
a foot deep, thro' which such Motion might be seen. The
Water within and without the Tube being of the same Spe-
cific Gravity, balance each other, and both remain at rest.
But take out the Tube, stop its Bottom with a Finger and fill it
with Olive Oil, which is lighter than Water, then stopping
the Top, place it as before, its lower End under Water, its
Top a very little above. As long as you keep the Bottom
stopt, the Fluids remain at rest, but the Moment it is un-
stopt, the heavier enters below, forces up the lighter, and takes
its Place. And the Motion then ceases, merely because the

1785] CAUSES AND CURE OF SMOKY CHIMNEYS 417

new Fluid cannot be successively made lighter, as Air may be
by a warm Tube.

In fact, no Form of the Funnel of a Chimney has any
Share in its Operation or Effect respecting Smoke, except its
Height. The longer the Funnel, if erect, the greater its
Force when fill'd with heated and rarefied Air, to draw in below
and drive up the Smoke, if one may, in compliance with
Custom, use the Expression draw, when in fact it is the su-
perior Weight of the surrounding Atmosphere that presses to
enter the Funnel below, and so drives up before it the Smoke
and warm Air it meets with in its Passage.

I have been the more particular in explaining these first
Principles, because, for want of clear Ideas respecting them,
much fruitless expence has been occasion'd; not only single
Chimneys, but, in some Instances within my Knowledge,
whole Stacks having been pulled down and rebuilt with
Funnels of different Forms, imagin'd more powerful in draw-
ing Smoke; but, having still the same Height and the same
Opening below, have perform'd no better than their Prede-
cessors.

What is it then which makes a Smoky Chimney ; that is, a
Chimney which, instead of conveying up all the Smoke,
discharges a Part of it into the Room, offending the Eyes and
damaging the Furniture?

The Causes of this Effect, which have fallen under my
Observation, amount to Nine, differing from each other, and
therefore requiring different Remedies.

i. Smoky Chimneys in a new House are such, frequently,
jrom mere Want oj Air. The Workmanship of the Rooms
being all good, and just out of the Workman's Hand, the
Joints of the Boards of the Flooring, and of the Pannels of

VOL. IX 2K

41 8 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1785

Wainscoting are all true and tight, the more so as the Walls,
perhaps not yet thoroughly dry, preserve a Dampness in the
Air of the Room, which keeps the Wood work swelled and
close. xThe Doors and the Sashes too, being work'd with
Truth, shut with Exactness, so that the Room is as tight as
a SnuffBox, no Passage being left open for Air to enter, ex-
cept the Keyhole, and even that is sometimes covered by a
little dropping Shutter. Now if Smoke cannot rise but as
connected with rarefied Air, and a Column of such Air, sup-
pose it filling the Funnel, cannot rise, unless other Air be
admitted to supply its place ; and if, therefore, no Current of
Air enter the Opening of the Chimney, there is nothing to
prevent the Smoke coming out into the Room. If the
Motion upwards of the Air in a Chimney, that is freely sup-
ply'd, be observed by the rising of the Smoke or a Feather
in it, and it be considered, that, in the Time such Feather
takes in rising from the Fire to the Top of the Chimney, a
Column of Air equal to the Content of the Funnel must be
discharged, and an equal Quantity supply'd from the Room
below, it will appear absolutely impossible that this Opera-
tion should go on if the tight Room is kept shut; for, were
there any Force capable of drawing constantly so much Air
out of it, it must soon be exhausted like the Receiver of an Air
pump, and no Animal could live in it. Those therefore who
stop every Crevice in a Room to prevent the admission of
fresh Air, and yet would have their Chimney carry up the
Smoke, require Inconsistencies, and expect Impossibilities.
Yet, under this Situation, I have seen the Owner of a new
House, in Despair, and ready to sell it for much less than it
cost, conceiving it uninhabitable, because not a Chimney
in any one of its Rooms would carry off the Smoke, unless a

1785] CAUSES AND CURE OF SMOKY CHIMNEYS 419

Door or Window were left open. Much Expence has also been
made, to alter and amend new Chimneys which had really
no Fault ; in one House particularly that I knew, of a Noble-
man in Westminster, that Expence amounted to no less than
£300, after his House had been, as he thought, finish 'd and
all Charges paid. And after all, several of the Alterations
were ineffectual, for want of understanding the true Prin-
ciples.

Remedies. When you find on Trial, that opening the Door
or a Window enables the Chimney to carry up all the Smoke,
you may be sure that want of Air jrom without was the Cause
of its Smoking. I say jrom without, to guard you against a
common Mistake of those, who may tell you the Room is
large, contains abundance of Air, sufficient to supply any
Chimney, and therefore it cannot be that the Chimney wants
Air. These Reasoners are ignorant, that the largeness of a
Room, if tight, is in this case of small Importance, since it
cannot part with a Chimney full of its Air without occasioning
so much Vacuum ; which it requires a great Force to effect,
and could not be borne, if effected.

It appearing plainly, then, that some of the outward Air
must be admitted, the Question will be, how much is abso-
lutely necessary; for you would avoid admitting more, as
being contrary to one of your Intentions in having a Fire,
viz. that of warming your Room. To discover this Quantity,
shut the Door gradually while a middling Fire is burning, till
you find, that, before it is quite shut, the Smoke begins to
come out into the Room, then open it a little till you perceive
the Smoke comes out no longer. There hold the Door, and
observe the Width of the open crevice between the Edge of
the Door and the Rabbit it should shut into. Suppose the

420 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1785

Distance to be half an Inch, and the Door 8 feet high, you find
thence that your Room requires an Entrance for Air equal in
area to 96 half inches, or 48 square Inches, or a Passage of
6 inches by 8. This however is a large Supposition, there
being few Chimneys, that, having a moderate Opening and a
tolerable Height of Funnel, will not be satisfied with such
a Crevice of \ of an inch ; and I have found a Square of 6 by
6, or 36 square Inches, to be a pretty good Medium, that will
serve for most Chimneys. High Funnels, with small and low
Openings, may indeed be supply'd thro' a less Space, because,
for Reasons that will appear hereafter, the Force of Levity,
if one may so speak, being greater in such Funnels, the cool
Air enters the Room with greater Velocity, and consequently
more enters in the same time. This however has its Limits,
for Experience shows, that no increased Velocity, so occa-
sion'd, has made the admission of Air thro' the Keyhole
equal in quantity to that thro' an open Door; tho' thro' the
Door the Current moves slowly, and thro' the Keyhole with
great Rapidity.

It remains then to be considered how and where this neces-
sary Quantity of Air from without is to be admitted, so as to
be least inconvenient. For, if at the Door, left so much open,
the Air thence proceeds directly to the Chimney, and in its
way comes cold to your Back and Heels as you sit before your
Fire. If you keep the Door shut, and raise a little the Sash
of your Window, you feel the same Inconvenience. Various
have been the Contrivances to avoid this, such as bringing in
fresh Air through Pipes in the Jambs of the Chimney, which,
pointing upwards, should blow the Smoke up the Funnel;
Opening Passages into the Funnel above, to let in Air for the
same purpose. But these produce an Effect contrary to

1785] CAUSES AND CURE OF SMOKY CHIMNEYS 421

that intended ; for, as it is the constant current of Air passing
from the room thro* the Opening oj the Chimney into the Fun-
nel, which prevents the Smoke coming out into the Room,
if you supply the Funnel by other Means or in other ways
with the Air it wants, and especially if that Air be cold, you
diminish the force of that Current, and the Smoke in its
Efforts to enter the Room finds less Resistance.

The wanted Air must then indispensably be admitted into
the Room, to supply what goes off through the Opening of
the Chimney. M. Gauger,1 a very ingenious and intelligent
French Writer on the subject, proposes with Judgment to
admit it above the Opening of the Chimney; and to prevent
Inconvenience from its Coldness, he directs its being made
to pass in its Entrance thro' winding Cavities made behind
the Iron Back and Sides of the FirePlace, and under the Iron
Hearth-Plate; in which Cavities it will be warmed, and
even heated, so as to contribute much, instead of cooling, to
the Warming of the Room. This Invention is excellent in
itself, and may be us'd with Advantage in building new
Houses; because the Chimneys may then be so disposed,
as to admit conveniently the cold Air to enter such Passages ;
but in Houses built without such Views, the Chimneys are
often so situated, as not to afford that Convenience, without
great and expensive Alterations. Easy and cheap Methods,
tho* not quite so perfect in themselves, are of more general
Utility; and such are the following.

In all Rooms where there is a Fire, the Body of Air warmed
and rarefied before the Chimney is continually changing
Place, and making room for other Air that is to be warmed in
its turn. Part of it enters and goes up the Chimney, and the

1 Nicolas Gauger (1680-1730), French physicist. — ED.

422 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1785

rest rises and takes place near the Ceiling. If the Room be
lofty, that warm Air remains above our Heads as long as it
continues warm, and we are little benefited by it, because it
does not descend till it is cooler. Few can imagine the Differ-
ence of Climate between the upper and lower Parts of such
room, who have not tried it by the Thermometer, or by going
up a Ladder till their Heads are near the Ceiling. It is then
among this warm Air that the wanted Quantity of outward Air
is best admitted, with which being mix'd, its Coldness is abated
and its Inconvenience diminished so as to become scarce
observable. This may be easily done, by drawing down about
an Inch the upper Sash of a Window ; or, if not moveable,
by cutting such a Crevice thro' its Frame ; in both which
Cases, it will be well to place a thin Shelf of the length, to con-
ceal the Opening, and sloping upward to direct the entring
Air horizontally along and under the Ceiling. In some
houses the Air may be admitted by such a Crevice made in
the Wainscot, Cornish, or Plastering, near the Ceiling and
over the Opening of the Chimney. This, if practicable, is to
be chosen, because the ent'ring cold Air will there meet with
the warmest rising Air from before the Fire, and be soonest
tempered by the Mixture. The same kind of Shelf should
also be placed here. Another way, and not a very difficult
one, is to take out an upper Pane of Glass in one of your
Sashes, set in a tin Frame, (Plate, Fig. 2,) giving it two
springing angular Sides, and then replacing it, with Hinges
below on which it may be turned to open more or less above.
It will then have the Appearance of an internal Skylight.
By drawing this Pane in, more or less, you may admit what
Air you find necessary. Its position will naturally throw
that air up and along the ceiling. This is what is called in

1785] CAUSES AND CURE OF SMOKY CHIMNEYS 423

France a Was ist das ? As this is a German Question, the
Invention is probably of that Nation, and takes its Name
from the frequent asking of that Question when it first ap-
peared. In England, some have of late Years cut a round
Hole about 5 Inches Diameter in a Pane of the Sash, and
plac'd against it a circular Plate of Tin hung on an Axis,
and cut into Vanes, which, being separately bent a little
obliquely, are acted upon by the entring Air, so as to force
the Plate continually round like the Vanes of a Windmill.
This admits the outward Air, and by the continual Whirling
of the Vanes, does in some degree disperse it. The Noise,
only, is a little inconvenient.

2. A second cause of the Smoking of Chimneys is, their
Openings in the Room being too large; that is, too wide, too
high, or both. Architects in general have no other Ideas of
Proportion in the Opening of a Chimney, than what relate
to Symmetry and Beauty, respecting the Dimensions of the
Room; while its true Proportion, respecting its Function
and Utility, depends on quite other Principles; and they
might as properly proportion the Step in a Staircase to the
Height of the Story, instead of the natural Elevation of Men's
Legs in mounting. The Proportion then to be regarded, is
what relates to the Height of the Funnel. For as the Funnels
in the different Stories of a House are necessarily of different
Heights or Lengths, that from the lowest Floor being the
highest or longest, and those of the other Floors shorter and
shorter, till we come to those in the Garrets, which are of
course the shortest; and the Force of Draft being, as already
said, in proportion to the height of Funnel filled with rarefied
Air; and a Current of Air from the Room into the Chimney,
sufficient to fill the Opening, being necessary to oppose and

424 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1785

prevent the Smoke's coming out into the Room; it follows,
that the Openings of the longest Funnels may be larger, and
that those of the shorter Funnels should be smaller. For,
if there be a large Opening to a Chimney that does not draw
strongly, the Funnel may happen to be furnish'd with the
Air it demands by a Partial current entring on one side of
the Opening, and, leaving the other side free of any Opposing
Current, may permit the Smoke to issue there into the Room.
Much too, of the Force of Draft in a Funnel depends on the
degree of Rarefaction in the Air it contains, and that depends
on the nearness to the Fire of its Passage in entring the Funnel.
If it can enter far from the Fire on each side, or far above the
Fire, in a wide or high Opening, it receives little heat in pass-
ing by the Fire, and the Contents of the Funnel is by that
means less different in Levity from the surrounding Atmos-
phere, and its Force in drawing consequently weaker. Hence,
if too large an Opening be given to Chimneys in upper Rooms,
those Rooms will be smoky; on the other Hand, if too small
Openings be given to Chimneys in the lower Rooms, the en-
tring air, operating too directly and violently on the Fire,
and afterwards strengthening the Draft as it ascends the
Funnel, will consume the Fuel too rapidly.

Remedy. As different Circumstances frequently mix them-
selves in these Matters, it is difficult to give precise Dimen-
sions for the Openings of all Chimneys. Our Fathers made
them generally much too large; We have lessen'd them ; but
they are often still of greater Dimension than they should be,
the human Eye not being easily reconciPd to sudden and
great Changes. If you suspect that your Chimney smokes
from the too great Dimension of its Opening, contract it by
placing Boards so as to lower and narrow it gradually, till

1785] CAUSES AND CURE OF SMOKY CHIMNEYS 425

you find the Smoke no longer issues into the Room. The
Proportion so found will be that which is proper for that
Chimney, and you may employ the Bricklayer or Mason to
reduce it accordingly. However, as, in building new Housesf
something must be sometimes hazarded, I would make the
Openings in my lower Rooms about 30 Inches square and 18
deep, and those in the upper only 18 Inches square and not
quite so deep; the intermediate ones diminishing in propor-
tion as the Height of Funnel diminish'd. In the larger Open-
ings, Billets of two feet long, or half the common length of
Cordwood, may be burnt conveniently ; and for the smaller,
such Wood may be saw'd into Thirds. Where Coals are
the Fuel, the Grates will be proportion'd to the Openings.
The same Depth is nearly necessary to all, the Funnels being
all made of a Size proper to admit a Chimney-sweeper. If
in large and elegant Rooms Custom or Fancy should require
the Appearance of a larger Chimney, it may be form'd of
expensive marginal Decorations, in Marble, &c. In time,
perhaps, that which is fittest in the nature of things may come
to be thought handsomest. But at present when Men and
Women in different Countries show themselves dissatisfied
with the Forms God has given to their Heads, Waists, and
Feet, and pretend to shape them more perfectly, it is hardly
to be expected that they will be content always with the best
Form of a Chimney. And there are some, I know, so bigotted
to the Fancy of a large noble Opening, that rather than change
it, they would submit to have damaged Furniture, sore Eyes,
and Skins almost smok'd to Bacon.

3. Another cause of smoky Chimneys is too short a Funnel.
This happens necessarily in some Cases, as where a Chimney
is required hi a low Building; for if the Funnel be rais'd

426 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1785

high above the Roof, in order to strengthen its Draft, it is
then in danger of being blown down, and crushing the Roof
in its Fall.

Remedies. Contract the Opening of the Chimney, so as
to oblige all the entring Air to pass thro' or very near the Fire ;
whereby it will be more heated and rarefied, the Funnel
itself be more warmed, and its Contents have more of what
may be called the Force of Levity, so as to rise strongly, and
maintain a good Draft at the Opening.

Or you may in some cases to Advantage, build additional
Stories over the low Building, which will support a high
Funnel.

If the low Building be us'd as a Kitchen, and a Contraction
of the Opening therefore inconvenient, a large one being neces-
sary, at least when there are great Dinners, for the free Man-
agement of so many Cooking Utensils ; in such Case I would
advise the Building of two more Funnels joining to the first,
and having three moderate Openings, one to each Funnel,
instead of one large one. When there is occasion to use but
one, the other two may be kept shut by sliding Plates, here-
after to be describ'd; and two or all of them may be used
together when wanted. This will indeed be an Expence,
but not a useless one, since your Cooks will work with more
comfort, see better than in a smoky Kitchen what they are
about, your Victuals will be cleaner drest, and not taste of
Smoke, as is often the Case ; and, to render the Effect more
certain, a Stack of three Funnels may be safely built higher
above the Roof than a single Funnel.

The Case of too short a Funnel is more general than would
be imagin'd, and often found where one would not expect it.
For it is not uncommon, in ill contriv'd Buildings, instead

1785] CAUSES AND CURE OF SMOKY CHIMNEYS 427

of having a Funnel for each Room or Fireplace, to bend and
turn the Funnel of an upper Room so as to make it enter the
Side of another Funnel that comes from below. By this
means the upper room Funnel is made short of course, since
its Length can only be reckon'd from the Place where it enters
the lower-room Funnel; and that Funnel is also shorten'd
by all the Distance between the Entrance of the second Funnel
and the Top of the Stack : For all that Part being readily
supply'd with Air thro' the second Funnel, adds no Strength
to the Draft, especially as that Air is cold when there is no
Fire in the second Chimney. The only easy Remedy here
is, to keep the Opening shut of that Funnel in which there
is no Fire.

4. Another very common Cause of the Smoking of Chim-
neys is their overpowering one another. For instance, if
there be two Chimneys in one large Room, and you make
Fires in both of them, the Doors and Windows close shut,
you will find that the greater and stronger Fire shall over-
power the weaker, and draw air down its Funnel to supply
its own Demand ; which Air descending in the weaker Fun-
nel, will drive down its Smoke, and force it into the Room.
If, instead of being in one Room, the two Chimneys are in
two different Rooms, communicating by a Door, the Case
is the same whenever that Door is open. In a very tight
House, I have known a Kitchen Chimney on the lowest
Floor, when it had a great Fire in it, overpower any other
Chimney in the House, and draw Air and Smoke into its
Room, as often as the Door was open'd communicating with
the StairCase.

Remedy. Take Care that every Room has the Means of
supplying itself from without, with the Air its Chimney may

428 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1785

require so that no one of them may be obliged to borrow
from another, nor under the Necessity of lending. A Vari-
ety of these Means have been already describ'd.

5. Another Cause of Smoking is, when the Tops of Chim-
neys are commanded by higher Buildings, or by a Hill, so that
the Wind blowing over such Eminences, falls like Water
over a Dam, sometimes almost perpendicularly on the Tops
of the Chimneys that lie in its way, and beats down the Smoke
contain'd in them.

Remedy. That commonly apply'd to this Case is a Turn-
cap made of Tin or Plate Iron, covering the Chimney above
and on three sides, open on one side, turning on a Spindle,
and which being guided or governed by a Vane, always pre-
sents its back to the Current. This I believe, may be gen-
erally effectual, tho' not certain, as there may be Cases in
which it will not succeed. Raising your Funnels, if practi-
cable, so as their Tops may be higher, or at least equal with
the commanding Eminence, is more to be depended on.
But the turning Cap, being easier and cheaper, should first
be try'd. If obliged to build in such a Situation, I would
chuse to place my Doors on the Side next the Hill, and the
Backs of my Chimneys on the furthest Side ; for then the
Column of Air falling over the Eminence, and of course
pressing on that below and forcing it to- enter the Doors,
or Was-ist-dases on that Side, would tend to ballance the
Pressure down the Chimneys, and leave the Funnels more
free in the Exercise of their Functions.

6. There is another Case of Command, the Reverse of that
last mentioned. It is where the commanding Eminence is
farther from the Wind than the Chimney commanded. To
explain this a Figure may be necessary. Suppose then a

1785] CAUSES AND CURE OF SMOKY CHIMNEYS 429

building whose Side A happens to be expos'd to the Wind, and
forms a kind of Dam against its Progress. (Plate, Fig. 3.)
The Air obstructed by this Dam, will, like Water, press
and search for Passages thro' it; and finding the Top of the
Chimney B, below the Top of the Dam, it will force itself
down that Funnel, in order to get through by some Door or
Window open on the other Side of the Building. And if
there be a Fire in such Chimney, its Smoke is of course beat
down, and fills the Room.

Remedy. I know of but one, which is to raise such funnel
Higher than the Roof, supporting it if necessary by iron Bars.
For a Turncap in this Case has no Effect, the damm'd-up-air
pressing down thro' it in whatever Position the Wind may
have plac'd its Opening.

I know a City in which many Houses are render'd smoky
by this Operation. For their Kitchens being built behind,
and connected by a Passage with the Houses, and the Tops
of the Kitchen Chimneys lower than the Top of the Houses,
the whole Side of a Street, when the Wind blows against its
back, forms such a Dam as above describ'd ; and the Wind
so obstructed, forces down those Kitchen Chimneys espe-
cially when they have but weak Fires in them to pass thro'
the Passage and House into the Street. Kitchen Chimneys,
so form'd and situated, have another Inconvenience. In
Summer, if you open your Upper Room Windows for Air,
a light Breeze blowing over your Kitchen Chimney towards
the House, tho' not strong enough to force down its Smoke,
as aforesaid, is sufficient to waft it into your Windows, and
fill the Rooms with it; which, besides the Disagreableness,
damages your Furniture.

7. Chimneys, otherwise drawing well, are sometimes

43o THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1785

made to smoke by the improper and inconvenient Situation
of a Door. When the Door and Chimney are on the same
Side of the Room, as in the Figure, if the Door A, being in
the Corner, is made to open against the Wall, (Plate, Fig. 4,)
which is common, as being there, when open, more out of
the Way, it follows, that, when the Door is only open'd in
Part, a Current of Air rushing in, passes along the Wall into
and across the Opening of the Chimney B, and flirts some of
the Smoke out into the Room. This happens more certainly
when the Door is shutting, for then the Force of the Current
is augmented, and becomes very inconvenient to those who,
warming themselves by the Fire, happen to sit in its way.

The remedies are obvious and easy. Either put an inter-
vening Skreen from the Wall round great part of the Fire-
Place ; or, which is perhaps preferable, shift the Hinges of
your Door, so as it may open the other way, and, when open,
throw the Air along the other Wall.

8. A Room, that has no Fire in its Chimney, is sometimes
filled with Smoke, which is received at the Top of its Funnel,
and descends into the Room. In a former paper I have al-
ready explained the descending Currents of Air in cold
Funnels ; it may not be amiss, however, to repeat here, that
Funnels without Fires have an Effect, according to their
degree of Coldness or Warmth, on the Air that happens
to be contain'd in them. The surrounding Atmosphere is
frequently changing its Temperature ; but Stacks of Funnels,
cover'd from Winds and Sun by the House that contains
them, retain a more equal Temperature. If after a warm
Season, the outward Air suddenly grows cold, the empty
warm Funnels begin to draw strongly upward ; that is, they
rarefy the Air contain'd in them, which of course rises, cooler

1785] CAUSES AND CURE OF SMOKY CHIMNEYS 431

Air enters below to supply its place, is rarefied in its turn,
and rises; and this Operation continues till the Funnel
grows cooler, or the outward Air warmer, or both, when the
Motion ceases. On the other Hand, if after a cold Season,
the outward Air suddenly grows warm and of course lighter,
the Air contain'd in the cool Funnels, being heavier, descends
into the Room ; and the warmer Air which enters their Tops,
being cool'd in its turn and made heavier, continues to descend ;
and this Operation goes on, till the Funnels are warmed by
the Passing of warm Air thro' them, or the Air itself grows
cooler. When the Temperature of the Air and of the Funnels
is nearly equal, the difference of Warmth in the Air between
Day and Night is sufficient to produce these Currents, the
Air will begin to ascend the Funnels as the Cool of the Evening
comes on, and this Current will continue till perhaps 9 or 10
o'clock the next Morning, when it begins to hesitate; and
as the heat of the Day approaches, it sets downwards, and
continues so till towards Evening, when it again hesitates
for some time, and then goes upwards constantly during
the Night, as before mentioned. Now when Smoke issuing
from the Tops of neighbouring Funnels passes over the Tops
of Funnels, which are at the Time drawing downwards, as
they often are in the Middle part of the Day, such Smoke
is of necessity drawn into these Funnels, and descends with
the Air into the Chamber.

The remedy is to have a Sliding Plate, hereafter describ'd,
that will shut perfectly the offending Funnel.

9. Chimneys, which generally draw well, do nevertheless
sometimes give Smoke into the Rooms, it being driven down
by strong Winds passing over the Tops oj their Funnels, tho*
not descending from any commanding Eminence. This Case

432 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1785

is most frequent where the Funnel is short, and the Opening
turn'd from the Wind. It is the more grievous, when it
happens to be a cold Wind that produces the Effect, because
when you most want your Fire, you are sometimes oblig'd
to extinguish it. To understand this, it may be consider'd
that the rising light Air, to obtain a free Issue from the Funnel,
must push out of its Way or oblige the Air that is over it to
rise. In a time of Calm or of little Wind this is done visibly,
for we see the Smoke that is brought up by that Air rise in a
Column above the Chimney. But when a violent Current
of Air, that is, a strong Wind, passes over the Top of a Chim-
ney, its Particles have received so much Force, which keeps
them in a horizontal Direction, and follow each other so
rapidly, that the rising light Air has not Strength sufficient
to oblige them to quit that Direction and move upwards to
permit its Issue. Add to this, that some of the Current pass-
ing over that Side of the Funnel which it first meets with,
viz. at Ay (Plate, Fig. 5,) having been compress'd by the
Resistance of the Funnel, may expand itself over the Flue,
and strike the interior opposite Side at By from whence it
may be reflected downwards and from Side to Side in the
Direction of the prickt Line c c c.

Remedies. In some Places, particularly in Venice, where
they have not Stacks of Chimneys but single Flues, the Cus-
tom is, to open or widen the Top of the Flue, rounding in
the true Form of a Funnel ; (Plate, Fig. 6 ;) which some think
may prevent the Effect just mentioned, for that the Wind
blowing over one of the Edges into the Funnel, may be slanted
out again on the other Side by its Form. I have had no
Experience of this; but I have lived in a Windy Country,
where the contrary is practised, the Tops of the Flues being

1785] CAUSES AND CURE OF SMOKY CHIMNEYS 433

narrow'd inwards, so as to form a Slit for the Issue of the
Smoke, long as the Breadth of the Funnel, and only 4 Inches
wide. This seems to have been contriv'd on a Supposition,
that the Entry of the Wind would thereby be obstructed;
and perhaps it might have been imagined, that the whole
Force of the rising warm Air being condensed, as it were, in
the narrow Opening, would thereby be strengthen'd, so as
to overcome the Resistance of the Wind. This however did
not always succeed ; for when the Wind was at NorthEast,
and blew fresh, the Smoke was forc'd down by Fits into the
Room I commonly sat in, so as to oblige me to shift the Fire
into another. The Position of the Slit of this Funnel was
indeed N. E* and S. W*. Perhaps if it had lain across the
Wind, the Effect might have been different. But on this I
can give no Certainty. It seems a matter proper to be re-
ferr'd to Experiment. Possibly a Turncap might have been
serviceable, but it was not tried.

Chimneys have not been long in Use in England. I re-
member to have formerly read in some very old book, which
remark'd the then modern Improvements of living, and men-
tioned, among others, the Convenience of Chimneys. "Our
ForeFathers," said the Author, "had no Chimneys. There
was in each DwellingHouse only one Place for a Fire, and the
Smoke went out thro* a Hole in the Roof; but now there is
scarce a Gentleman's House in England that has not at
least one Chimney in it." When there was but one Chim-
ney, its Top might then be open'd as a Funnel, and perhaps,
borrowing the Form from the Venetians, it was then the Flue
of a Chimney got that name. Such is now the Growth of
Luxury, that in both England and France we must have
a Chimney for every Room, and in some Houses every

VOL. IX — 2 F

434 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1785

Possessor of a Chamber, and almost every Servant, will have
a Fire ; so that the Flues being necessarily built in Stacks, the
opening of each as a Funnel is impracticable. This Change
of Manners soon consumed the Firewood of England, and
will soon render Fuel extreamly scarce and dear in France,
if the Use of Coals be not introduced in that latter kingdom
as it has been in the former, where it at first met with Opposi-
tion; for there is extant in the Records of one of Queen
Elizabeth's Parliaments, a Motion made by a Member,
reciting, "That many Dyers, Brewers, Smiths, and other
Artificers of London, had of late taken to the Use of Pitcoal
for their Fires, instead of Wood, which fill'd the Air with
noxious Vapours and Smoke, very prejudicial to the Health,
particularly of Persons coming out of the Country;" and
therefore moving, "that a Law might pass to prohibit the
Use of such Fuel (at least during the Session of Parliament)
by those Artificers." It seems it was not then commonly
us'd in private Houses. Its suppos'd Unwholesomeness was
an Objection. Luckily the Inhabitants of London have got
over that Objection, and now think it rather contributes to
render their Air salubrious, as they have had no general pes-
tilential Disorder since the general Use of Coals, when, be-
fore it, such were frequent. Paris still burns Wood at an
enormous Expence continually augmenting, the Inhabitants
having still that Prejudice to overcome. In Germany, you
are happy in the Use of Stoves, which save Fuel wonderfully :
Your People are very ingenious in the Management of Fire ;
but they may still learn something in that Art from the
Chinese, whose Country being greatly populous and fully
cultivated, has little room left for the growth of Wood, and,
having not much other Fuel that is good, they have been f orc'd

1785] CAUSES AND CURE OF SMOKY CHIMNEYS 435

upon many Inventions, during a Course of Ages, for making
a little Fire go as far as possible.

I have thus gone thro' all the common Causes of the Smok-
ing of Chimneys, that I can at present recollect as having
fallen under my Observation ; communicating the Remedies
that I have known successfully used for the different Cases,
together with the Principles on which both the Disease and
the Remedy depend, and confessing my Ignorance wherever
I have been sensible of it. You will do well, if you publish,
as you propose, this Letter, to add in Notes, or as you please,
such Observations as may have occurr'd to your attentive
Mind ; and, if other Philosophers will do the same, this Part
of Science, tho' humble, yet of great Utility, may in time be
perfected. For many Years past, I have rarely met with a
Case of a Smoky Chimney, which has not been solvable on these
Principles, and cur'd by these Remedies, where People have
been willing to apply them ; which is indeed not always the
Case ; for many have Prejudices in favour of the Nostrums
of pretending Chimney Doctors and Fumists, and some have
Conceits and Fancies of their own, which they rather chuse
to try, than to lengthen a Funnel, alter the Size of an Open-
ing, or admit Air into a Room, however necessary ; for some
are as much afraid of fresh Air as persons in the Hydrophobia
are of fresh Water. I myself had formerly this Prejudice,
this Aerophobia, as I now account it ; and, dreading the sup-
pos'd dangerous Effects of cool Air, I considered it as an
Enemy, and clos'd with extreme care every Crevice in the
Rooms I inhabited.

Experience has convinced me of my Error. I now look
upon fresh Air as a Friend ; I even sleep with an open Win-
dow. I am persuaded, that no common Air from without

436 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1785

is so unwholesome, as the Air within a close Room, that
has been often breath'd and not changed. Moist Air, too,
which formerly I thought pernicious, gives me now no Appre-
hensions ; for, considering that no Dampness of Air apply 'd
to the Outside of my Skin can be equal to what is apply 'd
to and touches it within, my whole Body being full of Moisture,
and finding that I can lie two hours in a Bath twice a Week,
cover'd with Water, which certainly is much damper than
any Air can be, and this for Years together, without catch-
ing Cold, or being in any other manner disordered by it, I
no longer dread mere Moisture, either in Air or in Sheets or
Shirts : And I find it of Importance to the Happiness of Life,
the being freed from vain Terrors, especially of objects that
we are every day expos'd inevitably to meet with. You
Physicians have of late happily disco ver'd, after a contrary
Opinion had prevaiPd some Ages, that fresh and cool Air does
good to Persons in the SmallPox and other Fevers. It is to
be hop'd, that in another Century or two we may all find out,
that it is not bad even for People in Health. And as to
moist Air, here I am at this present Writing in a Ship with
above 40 Persons, who have had no other but moist Air to
breathe for 6 Weeks past ; every thing we touch is damp,
and nothing dries, yet we are all as healthy as we should be
on the Mountains of Switzerland, whose Inhabitants are not
more so than those of Bermuda or St. Helena, Islands on
whose Rocks the Waves are dash'd into Millions of Particles,
which fill the Air with Damp, but produce no Diseases, the
Moisture being pure, unmix'd with the poisonous Vapours
arising from putrid Marshes and stagnant Pools, in which
many Insects die and corrupt the Water. These Places
only, in my Opinion (which however I submit to yours,)

1785] CAUSES AND CURE OF SMOKY CHIMNEYS 437

afford unwholsome Air; and that it is not the mere Water
contained in damp Air, but the volatile Particles of corrupted
animal Matter mix'd with that Water, which renders such
Air pernicious to those who breathe it. And I imagine it
a Cause of the same kind that renders the Air in close Rooms,
where the perspirable Matter is breath'd over and over again
by a number of assembled People, so hurtful to Health.
After being in such a Situation, many find themselves affected
by that Febricula, which the English alone call a Cold, and,
perhaps from the Name, imagine that they caught the malady
by going out of the Room, when it was in fact by being in it.

You begin to think, that I wander from my Subject, and
go out of my Depth. So I return again to my Chimneys.

We have of late many Lecturers in Experimental Philosophy.
I have wish'd that some of them would study this Branch of
that Science, and give Experiments in it as a Part of their
Lectures. The addition to their present Apparatus need
not be very expensive. A number of little Representations
of Rooms compos'd each of 5 Panes of Sash Glass, fram'd
in Wood at the Corners, with proportionable Doors, and
moveable Glass Chimneys, with Openings of different Sizes,
and different Lengths of Funnel, and some of the Rooms so
contriv'd as to communicate on occasion with others, so as
to form different Combinations, and exemplify different
Cases; with quantities of green Wax Taper cut into Pieces
of an Inch and half, 16 of which stuck together in a Square,
and lit, would make a strong Fire for a little Glass Chimney,
and blown out would continue to burn and give Smoke as
long as desired. With such an Apparatus all the Operations
of Smoke and rarify'd Air in Rooms and Chimneys might be
seen thro' their transparent Sides; and the Effect of Winds

438 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1785

on Chimneys, commanded or otherwise, might be shown
by letting the entring air blow upon them thro' an opened
Window of the Lecturer's Chamber, where it would be con-
stant while he kept a good Fire in his Chimney. By the help
of such Lectures our Fumists would become better instructed.
At present they have generally but one Remedy, which per-
haps they have known effectual in some one Case of Smoky
Chimneys, and they apply that indiscriminately to all the
other Cases, without success, — but not without Expence
to their Employers.

With all the Science, however, that a man shall suppose
himself possess'd of in this Article, he may sometimes meet
with Cases that shall puzzle him. I once lodg'd in a house
at London, which, in a little Room, had a single Chimney
and Funnel. The Opening was very small, yet it did not
keep in the Smoke, and all Attempts to have a Fire in this
room were fruitless. I could not imagine the Reason, till
at length observing that the Chamber over it, which had no
Fireplace in it, was always filled with Smoke when a Fire
was kindled below, and that the Smoke came thro' the Cracks
and Crevices of the Wainscot, I had the Wainscot taken down,
and discover'd that the Funnel, which went up behind it,
had a Crack many feet in Length, and wide enough to admit
my Arm, a Breach very dangerous with regard to Fire, and
occasion'd probably by an apparent irregular Settling of one
Side of the House. The Air entring this Breach freely,
destroy'd the drawing Force of the Funnel. The Remedy
would have been, filling up the Breach, or rather rebuilding
the Funnel; but the Landlord rather chose to stop up the
Chimney.

Another puzzling Case I met with at a Friend's Country

1785] CAUSES AND CURE OF SMOKY CHIMNEYS 439

House near London. His best Room had a Chimney, in
which he told me he never could have a Fire, for all the Smoke
came out into the Room. I flatter'd myself I could easily
find the Cause, and prescribe the Cure. I had a Fire made
there, and found it as he said. I opened the Door, and per-
ceived it was not want of Air. I made a temporary Contraction
of the Opening of the Chimney, and found that it was not
its being too large, that caus'd the Smoke to issue. I went out
and look'd up at the Top of the Chimney ; its Funnel was
join'd in the same Stack with others, some of them shorter,
that drew very well, and I saw nothing to prevent its doing
the same. In fine, after every other Examination I could
think of, I was oblig'd to own the Insufficiency of my Skill.
But my friend, who made no Pretension to such kind of
Knowledge, afterwards discover'd the Cause himself. He
got to the Top of the Funnel by a Ladder, and looking down,
found it filled with Twiggs and Straw cemented by Earth,
and lin'd with Feathers. It seems the House, after being
built, had stood empty some Years before he occupy'd it;
and he concluded, that some large Birds had taken the Ad-
vantage of its retired Situation to make their Nest there.
The Rubbish, considerable in Quantity, being removed, and
the Funnel cleared, the Chimney drew well, and gave Satis-
faction.

In general, Smoke is a very tractable Thing, easily governed
and directed when one knows the Principles, and is well
informed of the Circumstances. You know I made it descend
in my Pennsylvania Stove. I formerly had a more simple
Construction, in which the same Effect was produc'd, but
visible to the eye (Plate, Figure 7). It was compos'd of two
plates, A B and C D, plac'd as in the figure. The lower

440 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1785

plate A By rested with its Edge in the Angle made by the
Hearth with the Back of the Chimney. The upper Plate was
fix'd to the Breast, and lapt over the lower about 6 Inches,
leaving a space of 4 Inches wide and the length of the Plates
(near 2 feet) between them. Every other Passage of Air
into the Funnel was well stopt. When therefore a Fire was
made at E, for the first time with Charcoal, till the Air in
the Funnel was a little heated throj the Plates, and then Wood
laid on, the Smoke would rise to A, turn over the Edge of
that Plate, descend to D, then turn under the Edge of the
upper Plate, and go up the Chimney. It was pretty to see,
but of no great Use. Placing therefore the under Plate in a
higher Situation, I remov'd the upper plate C D, and placed
it perpendicularly (Plate, Fig. 8), so that the upper Edge of
the lower Plate A B came within about 3 Inches of it, and
might be push'd further from it, or suffered to come nearer
to it, by a moveable Wedge between them. The Flame then
ascending from the Fire at E, was carried to strike the upper
Plate, made it very hot, and its Heat rose and spread with the
rarefied Air into the Room.

I believe you have seen in use with me the Contrivance
of a Sliding Plate over the Fire, seemingly plac'd to oppose
the rising of the Smoke, leaving but a small Passage for it,
between the Edge of the Plate and the Back of the Chimney.
It is particularly describ'd, and its Uses explained, in my
former printed Letter, and I mention it here only as another
instance of the Tractability of Smoke.

What is called the Staffordshire Chimney, affords an
Example of the same kind. The Opening of the Chimney
is brick'd up even with the Fore Edge of its Jambs,
leaving open only a Passage over the Grate of the same

1785] CAUSES AND CURE OF SMOKY CHIMNEYS 441

width, and perhaps 8 Inches high. The Grate consists
of semicircular Bars, their upper Bar of the greatest Diame-
ter, the others under it smaller and smaller, so that it has
the Appearance of half a round Basket. It is, with the
Coals it contains, wholly without the Wall that shuts up
the Chimney, yet the Smoke bends and enters the Passage
above it, the Draft being strong, because no Air can enter that
is not obliged to pass near or through the Fire, so that all
that the Funnel is filFd with is much heated, and of course
much rarefied.

Much more of the Prosperity of a Winter Country depends
on the Plenty and Cheapness of Fuel, than is generally
imagined. In Travelling I have observed, that in those Parts
where the Inhabitants can have neither Wood, nor Coal, nor
Turf, but at excessive Prices, the Working People live in
miserable Hovels, are ragged, and have nothing comfortable
about them. But when Fuel is cheap (or where they have the
Art of managing it to Advantage), they are well furnish'd with
Necessaries, and have decent Habitations. The obvious
Reason is, that the Working Hours of such People are the
profitable Hours, and they who cannot afford sufficient Fuel
have fewer such Hours in the 24, than those who have it cheap
and plenty: For much of the domestic Work of poor
Women, such as Spinning, Sewing, Knitting; and of the
Men, in those Manufactures that require little bodily
Exercise, cannot well be perform' d where the Fingers are
numb'd with Cold. Those People, therefore, in cold
Weather, are induc'd to go to bed sooner, and lie longer in
a Morning, than they would do, if they could have good
Fires or warm Stoves to sit by ; and their Hours of Work
are not sufficient to produce the Means of Comfortable

442 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1785

Subsistence. Those public Works, therefore, such as Roads,
Canals, &c., by which Fuel may be brought cheap into
such Countries from distant Places, are of great Utility;
and those who promote them may be reckoned among the
Benefactors of Mankind.

I have great Pleasure in having thus comply 'd with
your Request, and in the Reflection, that the Friendship
you honour me with, and in which I have ever been so
happy, has continued so many Years without the smallest
Interruption. Our Distance from each other is now aug-
mented, and Nature must soon put an End to the possibility
of my continuing our Correspondence ; but, if Consciousness
and Memory remain in a future State, my Esteem and
Respect for you, my dear Friend, will be everlasting.

B. FRANKLIN.

Notes to the Letter upon Chimneys
No. I

The latest work on architecture, that I have seen, is that
entitled Nutshells, which appears to be written by a very
ingenious man, and contains a table of the proportions of
the openings of chimneys; but they relate solely to the pro-
portions he gives his rooms, without the smallest regard to
the funnels. And he remarks, respecting those proportions,
that they are similar to the harmonic divisions of a mono-
chord.1 He does not indeed lay much stress on this; but it

1 " It may be just remarked here, that upon comparing these proportions
with those arising from the common divisions of the monochord, it happens,
that the first answers to unisons ; and, although the second is a discord, the
third answers to the third minor, the fourth to the third major, the fifth to the
fourth, the sixth to the fifth, and the seventh to the octave." — Nutshells, page
85. — ED.

1785] DESCRIPTION OF A NEW STOVE 443

shows that we like the appearance of principles ; and where
we have not true ones, we have some satisfaction in produc-
ing such as are imaginary.

No. II

The description of the sliding plates here promised, and
which have been since brought into use under various names,
with some immaterial changes, is contained in a former
letter to James Bowdoin.

1599. DESCRIPTION OF A NEW STOVE FOR
BURNING OF PITCOAL, AND CONSUMING
ALL ITS SMOKE.1

TOWARDS the end of the last century an ingenious French
philosopher, whose name I am sorry I cannot recollect, ex-
hibited an experiment to show that very offensive things
might be burnt in the middle of a chamber, such as woollen
rags, feathers, &c., without creating the least smoke or
smell. The machine in which the experiment was made,
if I remember right, was of this form, (Plate XV. Fig. i,)
made of plate iron. Some clear burning charcoals were put
into the opening of the short tube A, and supported there
by the grate B. The air, as soon as the tubes grew warm,
would ascend in the longer leg C and go out at D, conse-
quently air must enter at A descending to B. In this course
it must be heated by the burning coals through which it
passed, and rise more forcibly in the longer tube, in propor-

1 From Transactions of The American Philosophical Society (Old Series)
II : 57. It was read at a meeting of the Society, January 28, 1786. — ED.

444 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1785

tion to its degree of heat or rarefaction, and length of that
tube. For such a machine is a kind of inverted syphon;
and, as the greater weight of water in the longer leg of a
common syphon in descending is accompanied by an ascent
of the same fluid in the shorter; so, in this inverted syphon,
the greater quantity of levity of air in the longer leg, in rising
is accompanied by the descent of air in the shorter. The
things to be burned being laid on the hot coals at A, the
smoke must descend through those coals, and be converted
into flame, which, after destroying the offensive smell, came
out at the end of the longer tube as mere heated air.

Whoever would repeat this experiment with success, must
take care that the part A B, of the short tube, be quite full of
burning coals, so that no part of the smoke may descend and
pass by them without going through them, and being con-
verted into flame; and that the longer tube be so heated as
that the current of ascending hot air is established in it
before the things to be burnt are laid on the coals ; otherwise
there will be a disappointment.

It does not appear, either in the Memoirs of the Academy
of Sciences, or Philosophical Transactions of the English
Royal Society, that any improvement was ever made of this
ingenious experiment, by applying it to uesful purposes.
But there is a German book, entitled Vulcanus Famulans,
by John George Leutmann, P. D., printed at Wirtemberg,
in 1723, which describes, among a great variety of other
stoves for warming rooms, one, which seems to have been
formed on the same principle, and probably from the hint
thereby given, though the French experiment is not men-
tioned. This book being scarce, I have translated the
chapter describing the stove, viz.

PU

t

I

1785] DESCRIPTION OF A NEW STOVE 445

"CHAP. VII.

11 On a stove, which draws downwards.

"Here follows the description of a sort of stove, which
can easily be removed, and again replaced at pleasure. This
drives the fire down under itself, and gives no smoke, but,
however, a very unwholesome vapour.

"In the figure, A is an iron vessel like a funnel, (Plate
XV. Fig. 20,) in diameter at the top about twelve inches, at
the bottom near the grate about five inches; its height
twelve inches. This is set on the barrel C, which is ten
inches diameter and two feet long, closed at each end E E.
From one end rises a pipe or flue about four inches diameter,
on which other pieces of pipe are set, which are gradually
contracted to Z>, where the opening is but about two inches.
Those pipes must together be at least four feet high. B is
an iron grate. F F are iron handles guarded with wood,
by which the stove is to be lifted and moved. It stands on
three legs. Care must be taken to stop well all the joints,
that no smoke may leak through.

" When this stove is to be used, it must first be carried into
the kitchen and placed in the chimney near the fire. There
burning wood must be laid and left upon its grate till the
barrel C is warm, and the smoke no longer rises at A, but
descends towards C. Then it is to be carried into the room
which it is to warm. When once the barrel C is warm, fresh
wood may be thrown into the vessel A as often as one pleases,
the flame descends and without smoke, which is so consumed
that only a vapour passes out at D.

"As this vapour is unwholesome, and affects the head,
one may be freed from it, by fixing in the wall of the room

446 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1785

an inverted funnel, such as people use to hang over lamps,
through which their smoke goes out as through a chimney.
This funnel carries out all the vapour cleverly, so that one
finds no inconvenience from it, even though the opening D
be placed a span below the mouth of the said funnel G. The
neck of the funnel is better when made gradually bending,
than if turned in a right angle.

"The cause of the draft downwards in the stove is the
pressure of the outward air, which, falling into the vessel
A in a column of twelve inches diameter, finds only a resist-
ing passage at the grate B, of five inches, and one at Z), of
two inches, which are much too weak to drive it back again ;
besides, A stands much higher than B, and so the pressure
on it is greater and more forcible, and beats down the flame
to that part where it finds the least resistance. Carrying the
machine first to the kitchen fire for preparation is on this
account, that in the beginning the fire and smoke naturally
ascend, till the air in the close barrel C is made thinner by
the warmth. When that vessel is heated, the air in it is rare-
fied, and then all the smoke and fire descends under it.

" The wood should be thoroughly dry, and cut into pieces
five or six inches long, to fit it for being thrown into the
funnel A."

It appears to me, by Mr. Leutmann's explanation of the
operation of this machine, that he did not understand the
principles of it, whence I conclude he was not the inventor of
it; and by the description of it, wherein the opening at A
is made so large, and the pipe E D, so short, I am persuaded
he never made nor saw the experiment, for the first ought to
be much smaller, and the last much higher, or it hardly will

1785] DESCRIPTION OF A NEW STOVE 447

succeed. The carrying it in the kitchen, too, every time the
fire should happen to be out, must be so troublesome, that
it is not likely ever to have been in practice, and probably
has never been shown but as a philosophical experiment.
The funnel for conveying the vapour out of the room would
besides have been uncertain in its operation, as a wind blow-
ing against its mouth would drive the vapour back.

The stove I am about to describe was also formed on the
idea given by the French experiment, and completely carried
into execution before I had any knowledge of the German
invention; which I wonder should remain so many years in
a country, where men are so ingenious in the management
of fire, without receiving long since the improvements I
have given it.

Description of the Parts.

A, the bottom plate which lies flat upon the hearth, with
its partitions, i, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, (Plate, Fig. 2,) that are cast
with it, and a groove Z Z, in which are to slide the bottom
edges of the small plates F, F, figure 12 ; which plates meet-
ing at X close the front.

B i, figure 3, is the cover plate showing its under side, with
the grooves i, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, to receive the top edges of the par-
titions that are fixed to the bottom plate. It shows also the
grate W W, the bars of which are cast in the plate, and a groove
V V, which comes right over the groove Z Z, figure 2, receiv-
ing the upper edges of the small sliding plates F, F, figure 12.

B 2, figure 4, shows the upper side of the same plate, with
a square impression or groove for receiving the bottom mould-
ings T T T T of the three-sided box C, figure 5, which is
cast in one piece.

448 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1785

D, figure 6, its cover, showing its under side with grooves
to receive the upper edges S S S of the sides of C, figure 5,
also a groove R R, which, when the cover is put on, comes
right over another Q Q hi C, figure 5, between which is to
slide

E, figure 7, the front plate of the box.

P, a hole three inches diameter through the cover D,
figure 6, over which hole stands the vase F, figure 8, which
has a corresponding hole two inches diameter, through its
bottom.

The top of the vase opens at O O O, figure 8, and turns
back upon a hinge behind, when coals are to be put in; the
vase has a grate within at AT" N of cast iron H, figure 9, and a
hole in the top, one and a half inches diameter, to admit air,
and to receive the ornamental brass gilt flame M, figure 10,
which stands in that hole, and, being itself hollow and open,
suffers air to pass through it to the fire.

G, figure n, is a drawer of plate iron, that slips in between
in the partitions 2 and 3, figure 2, to receive the falling
ashes. It is concealed when the small sliding plates F, F,
figure 12, are shut together.

/ / / /, figure 8, is a niche built of brick in the chimney,
and plastered. It closes the chimney over the vase, but
leaves two funnels, one in each corner, communicating with
the bottom box K K, figure 2.

Dimensions of the Parts.

FEET. IN.

Front of the bottom box, 20

Height of its partitions, o 4-i

Length of No. i, 2, 3, and 4, each, ....13
Length of No. 5 and 6, each, o 8j

1785] DESCRIPTION OF A NEW STOVE 449

Breadth of the passage between No. 2 and

3i 06

Breadth of the other passages, each, . . . . o 3^

Breadth of the grate, o 6j

Length of ditto, 08

Bottom moulding of box C, square, . . . . i o

Height of the sides of ditto, 04

Length of the back side, o 10

Length of the right and left sides, each, ..09]

Length of the front plate £, where longest, . . on

The cover D, square, 012

Hole in ditto, diameter, 3

Sliding plates F, F, their length, each, . . . i o
- their breadth, each, ...04^

Drawer G, its length, i o

- breadth, ° 5f

- depth, 04

- G, depth of its further end, only, . . o i

Grate H in the vase, its diameter to the

extremity of its knobs, ° 5f

Thickness of the bars at top, o oj

- at bottom, less, . . . o o

Depth of the bars at the top, o of

Height of the vase, i 6

Diameter of the opening O O, in the clear, ..08

Diameter of the air hole at top, o ij

of the flame hole at bottom, ...02

To fix this Machine.

Spread mortar on the hearth to bed the bottom plate A,
then lay that plate level, equally distant from each jamb,

VOL. IX — 2 G

450 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1785

and projecting out as far as you think proper. Then put-
ting some Windsor loam in the grooves of the cover B, lay
that on ; trying the sliding plates F, F, to see if they move
freely in the grooves Z Z, V V, designed for them.

Then begin to build the niche, observing to leave the square
corners of the chimney unfilled; for they are to be funnels.
And observe also to leave a free open communication between
the passages at Ky Kt and the bottom of those funnels, and
mind to close the chimney above the top of the niche, that no
air may pass up that way. The concave back of the niche
will rest on the circular iron partition i A 4, figure 2, then, with
a little loam, put on the box C over the grate, the open side of
the box in front.

Then, with loam in three of its grooves, the groove R R
being left clean, and brought directly over the groove Q Q
in the box, put on the cover D, trying the front plate JB, to
see if it slides freely in those grooves.

Lastly, set on the vase, which has small holes in the mould-
ing of its bottom to receive two iron pins that rise out of
the plate D at 7, /, for the better keeping it steady.

Then putting in the grate H, which rests on its three knobs
h h h against the inside of the vase, and slipping the drawer
into its place; the machine is fit for use.

To use it.

Let the first fire be made after eight in the evening, or
before eight in the morning, for at those times and between
those hours all night, there is usually a draft up a chimney,
though it has long been without fire ; but between those hours
in the day there is often, in a cold chimney, a draft down-

1785] DESCRIPTION OF A NEW STOVE 451

wards, when, if you attempt to kindle a fire, the smoke will
come into the room.

But to be certain of your proper time, hold a flame over
the air hole at the top. If the flame is drawn strongly down
for a continuance, without whiffling, you may begin to kindle
a fire.

First put in a few charcoals on the grate H.

Lay some small sticks on the charcoals.

Lay some pieces of paper on the sticks.

Kindle the paper with a candle.

Then shut down the top, and the air will pass down
through the air hole, blow the flame of the paper down
through the sticks, kindle them, and their flame passing
lower, kindles the charcoal.

When the charcoal is well kindled, lay on it the sea-coals,
observing not to choak the fire by putting on too much at
first.

The flame descending through the hole in the bottom
of the vase, and that in plate D, into the box C, passes
down farther through the grate WW in plate B i, then
passes horizontally towards the back of the chimney ; there
dividing, and turning to the right and left, one part of it
passes round the far end of the partition 2, then coming for-
ward it turns round the near end of partition i, then moving
backward it arrives at the opening into the bottom of one of
the upright corner funnels behind the niche, through which
it ascends into the chimney, thus heating that half of the
box and that side of the niche. The other part of the divided
flame passes round the far end of partition 3, round the near
end of partition 4, and so into and up the other corner funnel,
thus heating the other half of the box, and the other side of the

452 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1785

niche. The vase itself, and the box C, will also be very hot, and
the air surrounding them being heated, and rising, as it cannot
get into the chimney, it spreads in the room, colder air suc-
ceeding is warmed in its turn, rises and spreads, till by the
continual circulation the whole is warmed.

If you should have occasion to make your first fire at
hours not so convenient as those above mentioned, and when
the chimney does not draw, do not begin it in the vase, but in
one or more of the passages of the lower plate, first covering
the mouth of the vase. After the chimney has drawn a while
with the fire thus low, and begins to be a little warm, you may
close those passages and kindle another fire in the box C,
leaving its sliding shutter a little open; and when you find,
after some time, that the chimney, being warmed, draws
forcibly, you may shut that passage, open your vase, and
kindle your fire there, as above directed. The chimney well
warmed by the first day's fire will continue to draw constantly
all winter, if fires are made daily.

You will, in the management of your fire, have need of
the following implements ;

A pair of small light tongs, twelve or fifteen inches long;
Plate, figure 13.

A light poker about the same length, with a flat broad
point, figure 14.

A rake to draw ashes out of the passages of the lower
plate, where the lighter kind escaping the ash-box will gather
by degrees, and perhaps once in a week or ten days require
being removed, figure 15.

And a fork with its prongs wide enough to slip on the neck
of the vase cover, in order to raise and open it when hot, to
put in fresh coals, figure 16.

1785] DESCRIPTION OF A NEW STOVE 453

In the management of this stove, there are certain precau-
tions to be observed at first, with attention, till they become
habitual. To avoid the inconvenience of smoke, see that
the grate H be clear before you begin to light a fresh
fire. If you find it clogged with cinders and ashes, turn it
up with your tongs and let them fall upon the grate below;
the ashes will go through it, and the cinders may be raked off
and returned into the vase when you would burn them. Then
see that all the sliding plates are in their places and close shut,
that no air may enter the stove but through the round open-
ing at the top of the vase. And to avoid the inconvenience
of dust from the ashes, let the ash-drawer be taken out of
the room to be emptied ; and, when you rake the passages,
do it when the draft of the air is strong inwards, and put the
ashes carefully into the ash-box, that remaining in its place.

If, being about to go abroad, you would prevent your
fire burning in your absence, you may do it by taking the
brass flame from the top of the vase, and covering
the passage with a round tin plate, which will prevent
the entry of more air than barely sufficient to keep a few
of the coals alive. When you return, though some hours
absent, by taking off the tin plate and admitting the air,
your fire will soon be recovered.

The effect of this machine, well managed, is to burn not
only the coals, but all the smoke of the coals, so that while
the fire is burning, if you go out and observe the top of your
chimney, you will see no smoke issuing, nor any thing but
clear warm air, which as usual makes the bodies seen
through it appear waving.

But let none imagine from this, that it may be a cure
for bad or smoky chimneys, much less, that, as it burns the

454 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1785

smoke, it may be used in a room that has no chimney. 'Tis
by the help of a good chimney, the higher the better, that it
produces its effect ; and though a flue of plate iron sufficiently
high might be raised in a very lofty room, the management
to prevent all disagreeable vapor would be too nice for com-
mon practice, and small errors would have unpleasing
consequences.

It is certain, that clean iron yields no offensive smell when
heated. Whatever of that kind you perceive, where there
are iron stoves, proceeds therefore from some foulness burn-
ing or fuming on their surface. They should therefore
never be spit upon, or greased, nor should any dust be suf-
fered to lie upon them. But, as the greatest care will not
always prevent these things, it is well once a week to wash the
stove with soap lees and a brush, rinsing it with clean water.

The Advantages of this Stove.

1. The chimney does not grow foul, nor ever need sweep-
ing ; for as no smoke enters it, no soot can form in it.

2. The air heated over common fires instantly quits the
room and goes up the chimney with the smoke; but in the
stove, it is obliged to descend in flame and pass through
the long winding horizontal passages, communicating its heat
to a body of iron plate, which, having thus time to receive the
heat, communicates the same to the air of the room, and there-
by warms it to a greater degree.

3. The whole of the fuel is consumed by being turned
into flame, and you have the benefit of its heat; whereas,
in common chimneys, a great part goes away in smoke which
you see as it rises, but it affords you no rays of warmth.

1785] DESCRIPTION OF A NEW STOVE 455

One may obtain some notion of the quantity of fuel thus wasted
in smoke, by reflecting on the quantity of soot that a few weeks
firing will lodge against the sides of the chimney, and yet this
is formed only of those particles of the column of smoke that
happen to touch the sides in its ascent. How much more
must have passed off in the air ? And we know that this soot
is still fuel ; for it will burn and flame as such, and when hard
caked together is indeed very like and almost as solid as the
coal it proceeds from. The destruction of your fuel goes on
nearly in the same quantity, whether in smoke or in flame ;
but there is no comparison in the difference of heat given.
Observe when fresh coals are first put on your fire, what a
body of smoke arises. This smoke is for a long time too cold
to take flame. If you then plunge a burning candle into it,
the candle, instead of inflaming the smoke, will instantly be
itself extinguished. Smoke must have a certain degree of
heat to be inflammable. As soon as it has acquired that
degree, the approach of a candle will inflame the whole body,
and you will be very sensible of the difference of the heat it
gives. A still easier experiment may be made with the candle
itself. Hold your hand near the side of its flame, and observe
the heat it gives; then blow it out, the hand remaining in
the same place, and observe what heat may be given by the
smoke that rises from the still burning snuff. You will find
it very little. And yet that smoke has in it the substance of
so much flame, and will instantly produce it, if you hold
another candle above it so as to kindle it. Now the smoke
from the fresh coals laid on this stove, instead of ascending
and leaving the fire while too cold to burn, being obliged to
descend through the burning coals, receives among them that
degree of heat which converts it into flame, and the heat of

456 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1785

that flame is communicated to the air of the room, as above
explained.

4. The flame from the fresh coals laid on in this stove, de-
scending through the coals already ignited, preserves them
long from consuming, and continues them in the state of red
coals as long as the flame continues that surrounds them, by
which means the fires made in this stove are of much longer
duration than in any other, and fewer coals are therefore
necessary for a day. This is a very material advantage
indeed. That flame should be a kind of pickle, to preserve
burning coals from consuming, may seem a paradox to many,
and very unlikely to be true, as it appeared to me the first
time I observed the fact. I must therefore relate the cir-
cumstances, and shall mention an easy experiment, by which
my reader may be in possession of ever}7 thing necessary to
the understanding of it. In the first trial I made of this kind
of stove, which was constructed of thin plate iron, I had,
instead of the vase, a kind of inverted pyramid like a mill-
hopper ; and fearing at first that the small grate contained in
it might be clogged by cynders, and the passage of the flame
sometimes obstructed, I ordered a little door near the grate,
by means of which I might on occasion clear it. Though,
after the stove was made and before I tried it, I began to think
this precaution superfluous, from an imagination, that the
flame being contracted in the narrow part where the grate
was placed, would be more powerful in consuming what it
should there meet with, and that any cynders between or
near the bars would be presently destroyed and the passage
opened.

After the stove was fixed and in action, I had a pleasure
now and then in opening that door a little, to see through

1785] DESCRIPTION OF A NEW STOVE 457

the crevice how the flame descended among the red coals;
and, observing once a single coal lodged on the bars in the
middle of the focus, a fancy took me to observe by my watch
in how short a time it would be consumed. I looked at it
long without perceiving it to be at all diminished, which sur-
prised me greatly. At length it occurred to me, that I and
many others had seen the same thing thousands of times,
in the conservation of the red coal formed in the snuff of a
burning candle, which, while envelloped in flame, and thereby
prevented from the contact of passing air, is long continued
and augments instead of diminishing, so that we are often
obliged to remove it by the snuffers, or bend it out of the flame
into the air, where it consumes presently to ashes. I then
supposed, that to consume a body by fire, passing air was
necessary to receive and carry off the separated particles of
the body ; and that the air passing in the flame of my stove,
and in the flame of a candle, being already saturated with
such particles, could not receive more, and therefore left the
coal undiminished as long as the outward air was prevented
from coming to it by the surrounding flame, which kept it
in a situation somewhat like that of charcoal in a well luted
crucible, which, though long kept in a strong fire, comes out
unconsumed.

An easy experiment will satisfy any one of this conserving
power of flame envelloping red coal. Take a small stick
of deal or other wood the size of a goose quill, and hold it
horizontally and steadily in the flame of the candle above the
wick, without touching it, but in the body of the flame. The
wood will first be inflamed, and burn beyond the edge of the
flame of the candle, perhaps a quarter of an inch. When the
flame of the wood goes out, it will leave a red coal at the end

458 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1785

of the stick, part of which will be in the flame of the candle
and part out in the air. In a minute or two you will perceive
the coal in the air diminish gradually, so as to form a neck ;
while the part in the flame continues of its first size, and at
length the neck being quite consumed, it drops off; and,
by rolling it between your fingers when extinguished, you will
find it still a solid coal.

However, as one cannot be always putting on fresh fuel
in this stove to furnish a continual flame, as is done in a
candle, the air in the intervals of time gets at the red coals
and consumes them. Yet the conservation while it lasted, so
much delayed the consumption of the coals, that two fires,
one made in the morning, and the other in the afternoon, each
made by only a hatful of coals, were sufficient to keep my
writing room, about sixteen feet square and ten high, warm a
whole day. The fire kindled at seven in the morning would
burn till noon ; and, all the iron of the machine with the walls
of the niche being thereby heated the room kept warm till
evening, when another smaller fire kindled kept it warm till
midnight.

Instead of the sliding plate E, which shuts the front of the
box C, I sometimes used another, which had a pane of glass,
or, which is better, of Muscovy talc, that the flame might be
seen descending from the bottom of the vase and passing in
a column through the box C, into the cavities of the bottom
plate, like water falling from a funnel, admirable to such as
are not acquainted with the nature of the machine, and in
itself a pleasing spectacle.

Every utensil, however properly contrived to serve its pur-
pose, requires some practice before it can be used adroitly.
Put into the hands of a man for the first time a gimlet or a

1785] DESCRIPTION OF A NEW STOVE 459

hammer, (very simple instruments,) and tell him the use of
them, he shall neither bore a hole or drive a nail with the
dexterity and success of another, who has been accustomed to
handle them. The beginner, therefore, in the use of this
machine, will do well not to be discouraged with little acci-
dents, that may arise at first from his want of experience.
Being somewhat complex, it requires, as already said, a variety
of attentions; habit will render them unnecessary. And
the studious man, who is much in his chamber, and has a
pleasure in managing his own fire, will soon find this a machine
most comfortable and delightful. To others, who leave their
fires to the care of ignorant servants, I do not recommend it.
They will with difficulty acquire the knowledge necessary,
and will make frequent blunders, that will fill your room with
smoke. It is therefore by no means fit for common use in
families. It may be adviseable to begin with the flaming kind
of stone coal, which is large, and, not caking together, is not
so apt to clog the grate. After some experience, any kind of
coal may be used, and with this advantage, that no smell,
even from the most sulphurous kind, can come into your
room, the current of air being constantly into the vase, where
too that smell is all consumed.

The vase form was chosen as being elegant in itself, and
very proper for burning of coals. Where wood is the usual
fuel, and must be burned in pieces of some length, a long
square chest may be substituted, in which A is the cover
opening by a hinge behind, B the grate, C the hearth-box
with its divisions as in the other, D the plan of the chest, E
the long narrow grate. Plate, Fig. 17. This I have not tried,
but the vase machine was compleated in 1771, and used by
me in London three winters, and one afterwards in America,

460 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1785

much to my satisfaction ; and I have not yet thought of any
improvement it may be capable of, though such may occur
to others. For common use, while in France, I have con-
trived another grate for coals, which has in part the same
property of burning the smoke and preserving the red coals
longer by the flame, though not so completely as in the vase,
yet sufficiently to be very useful, which I shall now describe
as follows.

A, is a round grate, one French foot in diameter, and eight
inches deep between the bars and the back (Plate, Fig. 18) ;
the sides and back of plate iron ; the sides having holes of half
an inch diameter, distant three or four inches from each other,
to let in air for enlivening the fire. The back without holes.
The sides do not meet at top nor at bottom by eight inches :
That square is filled by grates of small bars crossing front
to let in air below, and let out the smoke or flame above.
The three middle bars of the front grate are fixed, the upper
and lower may be taken out and put in at pleasure, when hot,
with a pair of pincers. This round grate turns upon an axis,
supported by the crotchet B, the stem of which is an inverted
conical tube five inches deep, which conies on as many inches
upon a pin that fits it, and which is fixed upright in a cast-
iron plate Z>, that lies upon the hearth ; in the middle of the
top and bottom grates are fixed small upright pieces, E, E,
about an inch high, which, as the whole is turned on its axis,
stop it when the grate is perpendicular. Fig. 19 is another
view of the same machine.

In making the first fire in a morning with this grate, there
is nothing particular to be observed. It is made as in other
grates, the coals being put in above, after taking out the upper
bar, and replacing it when they are in. The round figure of

1785] DESCRIPTION OF A NEW STOVE 461

the fire, when thoroughly kindled, is agreeable, it represents
the great giver of warmth to our system. As it burns down
and leaves a vacancy above, which you would fill with fresh
coals, the upper bar is to be taken out, and afterwards re-
placed. The fresh coals, while the grate continues hi the
same position, will throw up as usual a body of thick smoke.
But every one accustomed to coal fires in common grates
must have observed, that pieces of fresh coal stuck in below
among the red coals have their smoke so heated, as that it
becomes flame as fast as it is produced, which flame rises
among the coals and enlivens the appearance of the fire.
Here then is the use of this swivel grate. By a push with your
tongs or poker, you turn it on its pin till it faces the back of
the chimney, then turn it over on its axis gently till it again
faces the room, whereby all the fresh coals will be found under
the live coals, and the greater part of the smoke arising from
the fresh coals will, in its passage through the live ones, be
heated so as to be converted into flame. Whence you have
much more heat from them, and your red coals are longer
preserved from consuming. I conceive this construction,
though not so complete a consumer of all the smoke as the
vase, yet to be fitter for common use, and very advantageous.
It gives too a full sight of the fire, always a pleasing object,
which we have not in the other. It may with a touch be
turned more or less from any one of the company, that desires
to have less of its heat, or presented full to one just come out
of the cold. And, supported in a horizontal position, a tea
kettle may be boiled on it.

The author's description of his Pennsylvania fireplace,
first published in 1 744, having fallen into the hands of work-
men in Europe, who did not, it seems, well comprehend the

462 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1785

principles of that machine, it was much disfigured in their
imitations of it; and one of its main intentions, that of ad-
mitting a sufficient quantity of fresh air warmed in entering
through the air-box, nearly defeated, by a pretended improve-
ment, in lessening its passages to make more room for coals
in a grate. On pretence of such improvements, they obtained
patents for the invention, and for a while made great profit
by the sale, till the public became sensible of that defect in
the expected operation. If the same thing should be attempted
with this vase stove, it will be well for the buyer to examine
thoroughly such pretended improvements, lest, being the mere
productions of ignorance, they diminish or defeat the ad-
vantages of the machine, and produce inconvenience and
disappointment.

The method of burning smoke, by obliging it to descend
through hot coals, may be of great use in heating the walls
of a hot-house. In the common way, the horizontal passages
or flues that are made to go and return in those walls, lose a
great deal of their effect when they come to be foul with soot ;
for a thick blanket-like lining of soot prevents much of the
hot air from touching and heating the brick work in its pas-
sage, so that more fire must be made as the flue grows fouler.
But by burning the smoke they are kept always clean. The
same method may also be of great advantage to those busi-
nesses, in which large coppers or caldrons are to be heated.

Written at Sea, 1785.

1785] TO JOHN JAY 463

1600. TO JOHN JAY1

Philadelphia, Sept. 19, 1785.

SIR,

I have the honour to acquaint you, that I left Paris the i2th
of July, and, agreeable to the permission of Congress, am re-
turned to my own country. Mr. Jefferson had recovered his
health, and was much esteemed and respected there. Our
joint letters have already informed you of our late proceed-
ings, to which I have nothing to add, except that the last act
I did, as Minister Plenipotentiary for making treaties, was to
sign with him, two days before I came away, the treaty of
friendship and commerce that had been agreed on with
Prussia,2 and which was to be carried to the Hague, by Mr.
Short, there to be signed by Baron Thulemeyer on the part
of the King, who, without the least hesitation, had approved
and conceded to the new humane articles proposed by Con-
gress. Mr. Short was also to call at London for the signature
of Mr. Adams, who I learned, when at Southampton, was
well received at the British court.

The Captain Lamb, who, in a letter of yours to Mr. Adams,
was said to be coming to us with instructions respecting
Morocco, had not appeared, nor had we heard any thing of
him ; so nothing had been done by us in that treaty.

I left the court of France in the same friendly disposition
towards the United States, that we have all along experienced,
though concerned to find, that our credit is not better supported

1 From "The Private Correspondence of Benjamin Franklin" , Vol.
II, p. 425. — ED.

8 See this treaty at large in the public Journals of Cottgress, Vol. IV, p. 639.
— ED.

464 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1785

in the payment of the interest money due on our loans, which,
in case of another war, must be, they think, extremely preju-
dicial to us, and indeed may contribute to draw on a war
the sooner, by affording our enemies the encouraging confi-
dence, that those who take so little care to pay, will not again
find it easy to borrow. I received from the King, at my de-
parture, the present of his picture set round with diamonds,
usually given to ministers plenipotentiary, who have signed
any treaties with that court ; and it is at the disposition of
Congress, to whom be pleased to present my dutiful respects.

I am, with great esteem and regard, &c.

B. FRANKLIN.

P. S. Not caring to trust them to a common conveyance,
I send by my late secretary W. Temple Franklin, who will have
the honour of delivering them to you, all the original treaties
I have been concerned in negociating, that were completed.
Those with Portugal and Denmark continue in suspense.

1601. TO GEORGE WASHINGTON (L.C.)

Philada, Sept. 20. 1785.

DEAR SIR,

I am just arrived from a Country, where the Reputation
of General Washington runs very high, and where everybody
wishes to see him in Person; but, being told that it is not
likely he will ever favour them with a Visit, they hope at least
for a Sight of his perfect Resemblance by means of their prin-
cipal Statuary, M. Houdon, whom Mr. Jefferson and myself
agreed with to come over for the purpose of taking a Bust,
in order to make the intended Statue for the State of Virginia.

1785] TO GOVERNOR AND MRS. GREENE 465

He is here, but, the Materials and Instruments he sent down
the Seine from Paris not being arrived at Havre when we
sailed, he was obliged to leave them, and is now busied in sup-
plying himself here. As soon as that is done, he proposes to
wait on you in Virginia, as he understands there is no Prospect
of your coming hither, which would indeed make me very
happy ; as it would give me an Opportunity of congratulating
with you personally on the final Success of your long and pain-
ful Labours, in the Service of our Country, which have kid us
all under eternal Obligations. With the greatest and most
sincere Esteem and Respect, I am, dear Sir, &c.

B. FRANKLIN.1

1602. TO GOVERNOR WILLIAM GREENE AND
MRS. GREENE (L. c.)

Philad*, Sept. 20, 1785.

I seize this first Opportunity of acquainting my dear Friends,
that I have once more the great Happiness of being at home
in my own Country, and with my Family, because I know it
will give you Pleasure. I shall be glad to hear of your Wel-
fare, also, and beg you to favour me with a Line, and let me
know particularly how my young Friend Ray does.

I enjoy, Thanks to God, as much good Health as can rea-
sonably be expected at my time of life; and am ever, with
sincere Esteem, my dear Friends, yours most affectionately,

B. FRANKLIN.

1 M. Houdon went to Mount Vernon, where he remained three weeks, and
modelled a bust of General Washington, as exact in all its lineaments as his
skill could make it. From this model was executed the statue of Washington,
which was procured by the State of Virginia, and placed in the Capitol at
Richmond. See Sparks's " Life of Washington," p. 390. — S.

VOL. IX — 2 H

466 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1785

1603. TO JOHN JAY AND MRS. JAY1 (p.c.) (i.e.)

Philad*, Sept. 21, 1785.
DEAR FRIENDS,

I received your very kind Letter of the i6th, congratulat-
ing me on my safe Arrival with my Grandsons ; an Event that
indeed makes me very happy, being what I have long ardently
wish'd, and, considering the growing Infirmities of Age, be-
gan almost to despair of. I am now in the Bosom of my
Family, and find four new little Prattlers, who cling about the
Knees of their Grandpapa, and afford me great Pleasure.
The affectionate Welcome I met with from my Fellow Citi-
zens was far beyond my Expectation.

I bore my Voyage very well, and find myself rather better
for it, so that I have every possible Reason to be satisfied with
my having undertaken and perform'd it. When I was at
Passy, I could not bear a Wheel Carriage ; and, being dis-
couraged in my Project of descending the Seine in a Boat,
by the Difficulties and tediousness of its Navigation in so dry
a Season, I accepted the Offer of one of the King's Litters,
carried by large Mules, which brought me well, tho' in walk-
ing slowly, to Havre. Thence I went over in a Packet-Boat
to Southampton, where I staid four Days, till the ship came
for me to Spithead. Several of my London Friends came
there to see me, particularly the good Bishop of St. Asaph
and Family, who staid with me to the last. In short, I am
now so well as to think it possible, that I may once more have
the Pleasure of seeing you both perhaps at New York, with

1 The original letter is in the possession of Mr. Henry E. Pellew, of Wash-
ington. An auto, draft is in L. C. — ED.

1785] TO THOMAS PAINE 467

my dear young Friend (who I hope may not have quite for-
gotten me). For I imagine, that on the sandy Road between
Burlington and Amboy I could bear an easy Coach, and the
rest is Water. I rejoice to hear that you continue well, being
with true and great Esteem and Affection your most obedient
Servant, B. FRANKLIN.

1604. TO THOMAS PAINE (L. c.)

Philad8, Sept 27, 1785.

DEAR SIR : — Your kind Congratulations on my safe Re-
turn give me a great deal of Pleasure ; l for I have always
valued your Friendship.

The Ease and Rest you wish me to enjoy for the Remainder
of my Days is certainly what is most proper for me, what I
long wish'd for, and what I propos'd to myself in resigning
my late Employment : But it is what I find I am not likely to
obtain : For my Fellow-Citizens having in a considerable Body
express'd their Desire that I would still take a Part in their
publick Councils, assuring me it was the unanimous Wish of
the different Parties that divide the State, from an Opinion
that I might find some means of reconciling them, I had not
sufficient Firmness to refuse their Request of Permitting their
Voting for me as Councillor at the ensuing Election. Tho'
I apprehend they expect too much of me, and that without
doing the good propos'd, I shall find myself engag'd again in
Business more troublesome than I have lately quitted.

As to my Health, of which you kindly desire some Informa-
tion, it is as well as, at my Age, can reasonably be expected.

1 In a letter dated September 23, 1785 (A. P. S.). — ED.

468 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1785

I have the Stone indeed, and sometimes the Gout, but the Pain
from the Stone is hitherto not very severe, and there are in the
World so many worse Maladies to which Human Nature is
subject, that I ought to be content with the moderate Share
allotted me.

Be assured, my dear Friend, that instead of Repenting
that I was your Introducer into America, I value myself on
the Share I had in procuring for it the Acquisition of so use-
ful and valuable a Citizen.

I shall be very glad to see you when you happen to be again
at Philadelphia, being with sincere Esteem and Affection, dear
sir, your most obedient and most humble Servant,

B. FRANKLIN.

1605. TO FRANCIS CHILDS1

Philadelphia, October i, 1785.

SIR : — I thank you for your kind congratulations on my
return.2 My printing materials, consisting of a great variety
of founts, were sent down the Seine some weeks before I left
Passy, but were so long in their passage, that when I came to
Havre they were not arrived, and I was obliged to come away
without them. It was expected that the next packet would
be ordered to sail from Havre, in which case I left directions
that my packages should all be sent by her to New York.
When I hear of their arrival I may possibly come to New
York; and then we may treat on the subject you mention.3

1 A printer at New York. Printed from " The Complete Works of Benja-
min Franklin" (Bigelow), Vol. IX, p. 268. — ED.

2 In a letter dated September 26, 1785 (A. P. S.). — ED.

8 Concerning the conditions upon which Franklin had assisted James
Parker. — ED.

1785] TO DONATIEN LE RAY DE CHAUMONT 469

I have now only to add that I shall be glad of being service-
able to you on reasonable terms, and am your humble ser-
vant, B. FRANKLIN.

1606. TO DONATIEN LE RAY DE CHAUMONT1

Philadelphia, October 20, 1785.

I make no apology for writing in English, because I know
my friend Sophy 2 can translate it for you.

Immediately after my landing, I wrote to acquaint you with
my safe arrival and the absence of your son. He is since re-
turned in good health, and writes to you by this opportunity,
of which he acquainted me. I just now received your favour
of August loth, with two for him. They will be put in his
hands as soon as he returns from a hunting party, on which he
is out at present with my son Bache and some others; but
will be back here next Sunday.

I thank you for delivering the table to Madame Le Veillard ;
but more particularly for the present you have made to Abbe*
Morellet, at my request, of the doctoral chair.8 He had taken
a vast liking to it, and the possession must give him great
pleasure. The marmite a vapeur I have with me here. We
used it at sea with great success ; though the water we boiled
was salt.

As to Finck, the maitre d'hotel, he was fairly paid in money

1 From "The Complete Works of Benjamin Franklin" (Bigelow), Vol. IX,
p. 271. — ED.

2 Sophie de Chaumont, daughter of Le Ray de Chaumont. — ED.

8 Abbe Morellet had always admired Franklin's fauteuil doctoral, and his
little cabinet with its drawers for nails and carpenters' tools. Upon the chair
he inscribed "Benjamin Franklin hie sedebat." The table presented to
Madame le Veillard was a tea table. — ED.

470 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1785

for every just demand he could make against us, and we have
his receipts in full. But there are knaves in the world whom
no writing can bind, and when you think you have finished
with them, they come with demands after demands sans fin.
He was continually saying of himself, Je suis honne'te homme ;
je suis honn£te homme. But I always suspected he was mis-
taken ; and so it proves.

I hope your Princess and Princesses and Duchesses and
Marquises are not birds of passage, but will stay with you as
we did through the winter, so that you may pass it the more
agreeably.

I will mention your project for transporting wood, etc., to
some of my friends ; but I think this is not the best part of
the country for such an undertaking.

[B. F.]

1607. TO MADAME HELVETIUS (B. N.)
a Philadelphia, ce 20 octre 1785

Hier etois Mercredi. A dix heures de Matin, j'ai pense*
de vous, de votre Maison, de votre Table, de vos Amis, etc.
A cette heure, ai je dis, ils sont tous a diner, M. le Roy, M.
Hennin, 1' Abbe's de la Roche & Morellet, M. Cabbanis,
peutetre quelques unes des petites Etoiles. Madame sert a
toute la Compagnie, avec autant de Facility que de Plaisir.
Mais, helas, je n'etoit pas la, pour participer les jolis Propos de
bon Sens, de 1' Esprit, & d'Amitie*, avec lesquelles ses Repas
sont tou jours assaisone*es !

Vous aurez Plaisir de Scavoir que je suis ici en bon Sant£
& heureux dans le Sein de ma Famille. Mais jai manque de
trouver le Repos que j'esperoit; car on m'a saisit pour

1785] TO FERDINAND GRAND 47*

me faire Gouverneur, & jai en la Foiblesse de consentir;
ainsi me voila aussi occupe* que jamais. — Si je peux faire
du bien pour mon Peuple, cela me consolera. Autrement, je
souhaiterai que javois acceptois votre Invitation amicale de
passer le reste de mes jours chez vous.

Adieu, ma chere Amie, aimez moi toujours, comme je vous
aime. Embrassez pour moi tous mes Amis de votre Cercle,
& me croyez toujours attache* a vous avez les Siens de plus
forte affection. [B. F.]

1608. TO FERDINAND GRAND1 (p. c.)

Philad' Oct. 20. 1785.

DEAR SIR,

I have written to you twice since my Arrival, but have not
yet drawn any Bills on you from hence. Perhaps I may soon
draw for the Amount of the Interest that will be due on my
Money in the Funds ; and I hope soon to hear from you and
to receive my Ace*. Inclos'd I send you a second Bill of Mr
Houdon's, for which when receiv'd you will credit me. He is
this Evening retura'd well from Gen. Washington's, having fin-
ish'd his Business there, and is preparing to return directly. —

I have this Day receiv'd several Letters from Passy, dated
Aug. 10. but no Line from you, I suppose you did not
hear of the Opportunity. My eldest Grandson is at New
York, the other, Benjamin, joins in Respects & best Wishes
for you & yours, with
Dear Sir,

Your most obed1

& most humble Serv*

B FRANKLIN

1 From the private collection of Mr. E. B. Holden. — ED.

472 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1785

1609. TO DAVID HARTLEY1

Philadelphia, October 27, 1785.

DEAR SIR,

I received at Havre de Grace 6 copies of your print, which
I have brought with me hither. I shall frame and keep one
of them in my best room. I shall send one to Mr. Jay, and
give the others among some friends who esteem and respect
you as we do.

Your newspapers are rilled with accounts of distresses and
miseries, that these States are plunged into since their separa-
tion from Britain. You may believe me when I tell you, that
there is no truth in those accounts. I find all property in
lands and houses augmented vastly in value ; that of houses
in towns at least fourfold. The crops have been plentiful,
and yet the produce sells high, to the great profit of the farmer.
At the same time, all imported goods sell at low rates, some
cheaper than the first cost. Working people have plenty of
employ and high pay for their labour.

These appear to me as certain signs of public prosperity.
Some traders, indeed, complain that trade is dead ; but this
pretended evil is not an effect of inability in the people to buy,
pay for, and consume the usual articles of commerce, as far
as they have occasion for them ; it is owing merely to there
being too many traders, who have crowded hither from all
parts of Europe with more goods than the natural demand of
the country requires. And what in Europe is called the debt
of America, is chiefly the debt of these adventurers and super-

1 From "The Private Correspondence of Benjamin Franklin" , Vol.
I, p. 197. — ED.

1785] TO MRS. MARY HEWSON 473

cargoes to their principals, with which the settled inhabitants
of America, who never paid better for what they want and buy,
have nothing to do. As to the contentment of the inhabitants
with the change of government, methinks a stronger proof
cannot be desired, than what they have given in my reception.
You know the part I had in that change, and you see in the
papers the addresses from all ranks with which your friend
was welcomed home, and the sentiments they contain con-
firmed yesterday in the choice of him for President by the
Council and new Assembly, which was unanimous, a single
voice in seventy-seven excepted.

I remember you used to wish for newspapers from America.
Herewith I send a few, and you shall be regularly supplied,
if you can put me in a way of sending them, so as that you
may not be obliged to pay postage. With unchangeable
esteem and respect I am, my dear friend, yours most affec-
tionately, B. FRANKLIN.

1610. TO MRS. MARY HEWSON1 (p. c.)

Philad*, Oct. 30, 1785.

I received my dear Friend's Letter of July 23, at South-
ampton, where I arrived the 24th, and staid till the 28th. I
believe I acquainted you by a Line, immediately after my
Arrival here, that we had a pleasant, and not a long Passage,
in which there was but one Day, a Day of violent Storm, in
which I was glad you were not with us. I had the Happiness
of finding my family well, and of being very kindly received
by my Country folks.

1 From the original in the possession of T. Hewson Bradford, M.D. — ED.

474 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1785

I say nothing to persuade your Coming, because I said in a
former Letter, I would leave you entirely to your own Judg-
ment, which is very good. I would only mention a Fact,
that, on Enquiry I am inform'd the usual Apprentice-Fee
given to a Mercantile House of Eminence, is from 100 to
£150 Sterling. I am plung'd again into public Business, as
deep as ever; and can now only add my Love to the dear
Children, in which this Family all join. Temple is just gone
to look at his Lands, and Ben is at College to compleat his
Studies. I am ever, my dear Friend, yours most affection-
ately, B. FRANKLIN.

1611. TO SAMUEL ELBERT1 (P. c.)

Philada, Nov. 5, 1785.
SIR,

I had the honour formerly of serving the Province of Georgia
as their Agent in England, being appointed by Acts of the
Assembly, with a Salary of One hundred Pounds per Annum.
On my return to America I left my Account with my Suc-
cessor ; and the Troubles coming on I have ever since been
so fully occupied in the Public Affairs of the United States
either here or abroad, that the obtaining a Settlement of
that Account has been omitted. Inclosed is a copy of it,
which I request your Excellency would be so good as to
lay before your Assembly, who will, I make no doubt, in

1 From the private collection of Mr. J. Pierpont Morgan. S. Elbert (1743-
1788) was elected governor of Georgia in 1785, succeeding John Houston.
He had been a soldier in the Revolution, was present at the surrender of Corn-
wallis, and received the brevet of brigadier-general, November 3, 1783. — ED.

1785] TO MESSRS. SEARS AND SMITH 475

adjusting it, consider equitably the long Delay and expedite
the Payment.

With great Respect I have the honour to be, Sir,

B. FRANKLIN

1612. TO MESSRS. SEARS AND SMITH1 (A. p. s.)

Philad*. Nov. 14. 1785.

GENTLEMEN,

I receiv'd your Letter of the 13th past. Sometime last
Summer the Marquis de la Fayette wrote to me about your
Affair, and finding by a Letter from you that you had not
receiv'd my Answer of Aug. 4. 1784 to yours of May 18, I
sent him a Copy of that Answer to be forwarded by him to you,
and I wonder you have not yet received it. Since the Receipt
of yours of the i3kh past, I have endeavoured to find among
my Papers, disordered by Removal, another Copy of the same
Answer : which I could not meet with till yesterday. I now
enclose it, and am, with great Regard,
Gentlemen,

Your most obedient
humble Servant

B. FRANKLIN

1 A business house in New York. They had written to Franklin May 18,
1784 (A. P. S.), and repeated their appeal October 13, 1785 (A. P. S.),
informing him that they had engaged in a voyage to the coast of Africa to
barter their cargo for gold and ivory. Contrary to expectations the captain
of the vessel took a cargo of slaves who were carried to Martinico and sold.
The revenue officers of Martinique required a heavy duty upon the slaves;
Sears & Smith begged Franklin to use his influence to have the affair settled
so as to prevent the payment of so heavy a duty. — ED.

476 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1785

1613. TO JOHN BARD AND MRS. BARD1
DEAR FRIENDS, Philadelphia, November 14, 1785.

I received your kind letter, which gave me great pleasure,
as it informed me of your welfare. Your friendly congratula-
tions are very obliging. I had on my return some right, as
you observe, to expect repose ; and it was my intention to avoid
all public business. But I had not firmness enough to resist
the unanimous desire of my country folks ; and I find myself
harnessed again in their service for another year. They
engrossed the prime of my life. They have eaten my flesh,
and seem resolved now to pick my bones. You are right in
supposing, that I interest myself in every thing that affects
you and yours, sympathizing in your afflictions, and rejoicing
in your felicities ; for our friendship is ancient, and was never
obscured by the least cloud.

I thank you for your civilities to my grandson, and am ever,
with sincere and great esteem and regard, my dear friends,
yours most affectionately, B. FRANKLIN.

1614. TO CHARLES-JOSEPH MATHON DE LA

COUR2

QIR Philadelphia, November 18, 1785.

I received duly the letter you did me the honour of writing
to me on the 25th of June past,3 together with the collection

1 From Sparks, Vol. X, p. 239. — ED.

2 Mathon de la Cour (1738-1793), a native of Lyons, son of an eminent
mathematician of that city, was famous not only for his writings, but for his
numerous philanthropic projects and foundations. — ED.

3 No letter of this date exists, but there is one dated June 30, 1785, in

1 786] TO GEORGE CLINTON 477

you have made des comptes rendus de vos controkurs gtneraux;
and your Discours sur les Moyens d'encourager le Patriotisme
dans les Monarchies. The first is a valuable work, as con-
taining a great deal of useful information ; but the second I
am particularly charmed with, the sentiments being delight-
fully just, and expressed with such force and clearness, that I
am persuaded the pamphlet, though small, must have a great
effect on the minds of both princes and people, and thence be
productive of much good to mankind. Be pleased to accept
my hearty thanks for both.

It is right to be sowing good seed whenever we have an
opportunity, since some of it may be productive. An in-
stance of this you should be acquainted with, as it may afford
you pleasure. The reading of Fortune Ricard's Testament,
has put it into the head and heart of a citizen to leave two
thousand pounds sterling to two American cities, who are to
lend it in small sums at five per cent to young beginners in busi-
ness ; and the accumulation, after a hundred years, to be laid
out in public works of benefit to those cities.1 With great
esteem, I have the honour to be, Sir, &c.

B. FRANKLIN.

1615. TO GEORGE CLINTON2 (p. c.)

Philadelphia Jan. i»* 1786
o In Council

Intelligence has been received here, that Ethan Allen from
Vermont, and one Solomon Strong of your State have lately

A. P. S., thanking Franklin for having accepted membership in the Academic
des Sciences, Belles Lettres et Arts de Lyon. — ED.

1 It is to his own will that Franklin refers. — ED.

8 From the private collection of Mr. J. Pierpont Morgan. George Clinton
(1739-1812) was governor of New York (1777-1795). — ED.

478 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1786

been among the Settlers at Wyoming, persuading them to join
in erecting a new State to be compos'd of those Settlements,
those on the West Branch of Susquehanah, and a Part of the
State of New York promising the Assistance of an armed
Force from Vermont besides what may be obtain'd from the
Company in Connecticut where they are now both gone to
forward the Project.

Chimerical as it appears, and unlikely to succeed we thought
it nevertheless right to acquaint your Excellency with it,
that such Enquiries may be made and Measures taken as
you may judge proper to prevent these restless Spirits from
exciting Disturbances that may divert the People's Attention
from their Industry, and be attended with mischievous Con-
sequences.

With great Respect I have the Honour to be, etc.

BENJAMIN FRANKLIN.

1616. TO JAMES BOWDOIN1 (L. c.)

Philad., Jan. i, 1786.

MY DEAR FRIEND,

It gave me great Pleasure, my dear Friend, to receive your
kind Letter of Congratulation, as it prov'd, that all my old
Friends in Boston were not estranged from me by the ma-
levolent Misrepresentations of my Conduct, that had been cir-
culated there, but that one of the most esteemed still retained
a Regard for me. Indeed, you are now almost the only one
left me by nature ; Death having, since we were last together,
depriv'd me of my dear Cooper, Winthrop, and Quincy.

1 Printed from a draft in L. C. The original letter is at Bowdoin College.
— ED.

1786] TO JAMES BOWDOIN 479

I have not receiv'd the Letter you mention to have sent me
with some Memoirs, under Cover to Dr. Price. I must have
left Europe before they got to his Hands ; but he will doubtless
send them to me by the first convenient Opportunity. It was
not necessary to make any Apology for the Liberty you say
you have taken in those Memoirs, in making observations on
my Queries upon Light, for I am sure they will help me to
understand it better, and that must make them agreable to
me. I shall be glad to see the whole Volume,1 which you are
so kind as to promise me ; and I hope in the course of a few
Months to be able to make Returns, in a second Volume of our
Memoirs,2 now in the Press.

I sent to you some weeks since, by Mr. Gerry,3 Dr. Jeffries's
Account of his Aerial Voyage from England to France, which
I receiv'd from him just before I left that Country. In his
Letter, that came with it, he requests I would not suffer it
to be printed, because a copy of it had been put into the Hands
of Sir Joseph Banks for the Royal Society, and was to be read
there in November. If they should not think fit to publish
it, as I apprehend may be the Case, they having hitherto
avoided meddling with the Subject of Balloons, I shall be glad
to have the Manus1 return'd to me. In the mean time, I
thought it might afford some Amusement to you and to your
Society.4 My Acquaintance with Dr. Jeffries began by his

1 First volume of the Memoirs of the American Academy of Arts and
Sciences. — ED.

2 Transactions of The American Philosophical Society. — ED.

8 Elbridge Gerry (1744-1814), delegate to the Continental Congress
. He vacated his seat in Congress in 1780, but was recalled in 1783.
— ED.

4 The paper was printed in London, entitled, " A Narrative of two Agrial
Voyages," 410,1786. — ED.

48o THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1786

bringing me a Letter in France, the first thro' the Air, from
England.

With best Wishes of many happy New Years to you, and
good Madam Bowdoin, I have the honour to be, dear Sir, &c.

B. FRANKLIN.

1617. TO JONATHAN WILLIAMS1 (p. c.)

Philada Jan. 19, 1786.

DEAR JONATHAN

I received your kind Letter of the 26th past, and am glad
to hear that your Affairs are likely to turn out as well as you
expected, and that you have made the Soap which I wanted
for some Friends in France and thereby acquir'd the Knowl-
edge of that Art. It will not be proper to present that nau-
tical Piece to your Academy it being already in possession of
the Philosophical Society here who have ordered it to be
printed in their Memoirs and it is now in the Press. It may
however be read there if you think it will be agreable ; only I
would have the Part struck out relating to the expediting and
retarding the Voyages between N. America and England by
the Diurnal Motion, being on Consideration convinc'd that its
Effect is equal both ways. But I will perhaps by next Post,
send you some other Papers that you may present if you and
my Friend Mr. Bowdoin should judge them not improper.
I am much oblig'd by his sending that Ace* of a Dissolvent
for the Stone, and request you to thank him in my Behalf.
I wish the Discovery you mention of freshening Salt Water
may prove as real as it would be useful. I forwarded Dr.

1 From the original in the possession of Mr. Louis A. Biddle. — ED.

i ;86] TO JONATHAN WILLIAMS 481

Jeffries's Memoir some Weeks since to Mr. Bowdoin by Mr.
Gerry.

My love to your Father and Mother, and Brother and Sister.
I am ever

Your affectionate Uncle

B. FRANKLIN.
now past 80.

1618. TO JONATHAN WILLIAMS (L. c.)

Philadelphia, Jan. 27, 1786

DEAR JONATHAN: — Your Bill for £47..io..o.. has been
presented and accepted.

In my last of Jan. 19, 1 promised to send you some philo-
sophical Papers, which I now enclose. The three Pieces I
wrote at Sea will all be printed in our Transactions here ; that
on Chimneys is already done, and perhaps I may send you the
Sheets with this. The others will be done soon ; and printed
Copies will be better for you than written ones by Ben.

I wonder with you that the Books are not arriv'd. Pray
write and enquire about them.

When I put Dr. Jeffries's Memoir into the hands of Mr.
Gerry, I fancy'd he was going to Boston, or as a Member of
Congress would send it free of Postage. But I see by the
Newspapers that he stays at New York to be married,1 and
perhaps that important Transaction has put the Packet out
of his Mind.

I am ever your affectionate Uncle,

B. FRANKLIN.

1 He married Anne, daughter of Charles Thomson. — ED.
VOL. ix — 21

482 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1786

1619. TO FERDINAND GRAND (L. c.)

Philad. Jan. 29, 1786.

DEAR SIR,

I have lately drawn on you the following Bills,
viz.
In favour of Theodore Hopkins for 200 £ Sterling

of Mess" Roy [?] & Freres for 3110 Livres

tourn8

of Mess" Lea & Obrien 500 £ Sterling
The Bills for Sterling Money are made payable in London.
You will accept to pay them there accordingly, and whatever
Expence is occasion'd by it will be charg'd to me. I shall
draw no more at present, having no farther Occasion for
Money here, as the high Price of Labour discourages my
Project of Building, till it shall be more moderate. I wish
much to hear from you, and to receive my Account to the End
of last Year. I hope the good Family continue well. We are
all so here, and my Grandsons join in Love, &c Notwith-
standing what you may see in the English Newspapers, be
assured that America is in a most prosperous Situation. My
own Estate I find more than tripled in Value since the Revo-
lution. I hear nothing yet of our Baggage which was in the
Hands of Mr Limousin at Havre and wish you would enquire
about it, and inform me if you can what is become of it; I
have not receiv'd a Line from him since I left France. Please
to remember me affectionately to all our Friends at Passy
and Auteuil, &c &c With great and sincere Esteem, I am
my dear Friend.

Ever yours,

B FRANKLIN.

[786] INSTRUMENT FOR TAKING DOWN BOOKS 483

1620. Description oj an Instrument for taking down Books

from high Shelves l

January, 1786.

OLD men find it inconvenient to mount a ladder or steps
for that purpose, their heads being sometimes subject to giddi-
nesses, and their activity, with the steadiness of their joints,
being abated by age; besides the trouble of removing the
steps every time a book is wanted from a different part of
their library.

For a remedy, I have lately made the following simple
machine, which I call the Long Arm.

A B, the Arm, is a stick of pine, an inch square and 8 feet
long. C, D, the Thumb and Finger, are two pieces of ash
lath, an inch and half wide, and a quarter of an inch thick.
These are fixed by wood screws on opposite sides of the end A
of the arm A B ; the finger D being longer and standing out
an inch and half farther than the thumb C. The outside of
the ends of these laths are pared off sloping and thin, that they
may more easily enter between books that stand together on a
shelf. Two small holes are bored through them at i, k.
E F, the sinew, is a cord of the size of a small goosequill,
with a loop at one end. When applied to the machine it
passes through the two laths, and is stopped by a knot in its
other end behind the longest at k. The hole at i is nearer
the end of the arm than that at k, about an inch. A number

1 This article was first published by Sparks. See " The Works of Benjamin
Franklin," Vol. VI, p. 562. The Ms. was sent by Franklin to Jonathan Will-
iams to be communicated to James Bowdoin. See letter to Williams, February
12, 1786. — ED.

484 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1786

of knots are also on the cord, distant three or four inches
from each other.

1786] INSTRUMENT FOR TAKING DOWN BOOKS 485

To use this instrument; put one hand into the loop, and
draw the sinew straight down the side of the arm ; then enter
the end of the finger between the book you would take down
and that which is next to it. The laths being flexible, you
may easily by a slight pressure sideways open them wider if
the book is thick, or close them if it is thin by pulling the
string, so as to enter the shorter lath or thumb between your
book and that which is next to its other side, then push till
the back of your book conies to touch the string. Then draw
the string or sinew tight, which will cause the thumb
and finger to pinch the book strongly, so that you may draw
it out. As it leaves the other books, turn the instrument a
quarter round, so that the book may lie flat and rest on its side
upon the under lath or finger. The knots on the sinew will
help you to keep it tight and close to the side of the arm as
you take it down hand over hand, till the book comes to you ;
which would drop from between the thumb and finger if the
sinew was let loose.

All new tools require some practice before we can become
expert hi the use of them. This requires very little.

Made in the proportions above given, it serves well for
books in duodecimo or octavo. Quartos and folios are too
heavy for it ; but those are usually placed on the lower shelves
within reach of hand.

The book taken down, may, when done with, be put up
again into its place by the same machine.

486 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1786

1621. TO JONATHAN WILLIAMS1 (P. c.)

Philad* Feb. 12. 1786
DEAR JONATHAN

I wrote to you a few Days since, and sent you 4 philosophi-
cal Papers which I permitted your communicating to Mr.
Bowdoin. As they are chiefly speculative and hypothetical
and (except the Description of the long Arm a new Instru-
ment for taking down Books from high Shelves) contain little
of practical Utility.

I apprehend he will not think them worth laying before
the Society. I sent the Pacquet by Mrs. Allen whom you
may remember to have seen in France. So you will receive
them free of Postage, tho' a little later, for I cannot frank
as you suppose, and I pay for all Letters that come to me,
except those from the Secretaries of Congress. I thank
you however for your Pacquet containing your Dispute with
Mercator in which I think you have the Advantage both in
Temper and Strength of Argument. It seems to me that
instead of discussing When we ceas'd to be British Subjects
you should have deny'd our ever having been such. We were
Subjects to the King of G. Britain, as were also the Irish, the
Jersey and Guernsey People and the Hanoverians, but we
were American Subjects as they were Irish, Jersey and Hano-
verian Subjects. None are British Subjects but those under
the Parliament of Britain.

Your affectionate Uncle

B. FRANKLIN.

1 From the original in the possession of Mr. Louis A. Bid die. — ED.

1786] TO JONATHAN WILLIAMS 487

1622. TO JONATHAN WILLIAMS l (P. c.)

(L. C.)
Philad* Feb. 16 1786

DEAR JONATHAN : — I have written twice to you lately,
but am oblig'd to trouble you with another Line, to request
from you a Copy of the Account you took during our last
Voyage of the Temperature of the Water, for I cannot find
that I have such a Copy, and I want it to add to my nautical
Letter now in the Press ; so that I wish you to favour me with
it as speedily as possible.

And now I am writing, it comes into my Mind to enquire
of you what Light you find me to stand in among my Country
folks? My late Friends Dr. Cooper and Mr. Quincy gave
me Friendly Notices of the Calumnies propagated against me,
which appeared all to emanate from the Brantry Focus.
If they still exist, I would furnish you with a Copy of my
Justification, which I sent to Dr. Cooper, but it probably
did not reach Boston before his Death. You see, that old as I
am, I am not yet grown insensible with respect to Reputation ;
tho' as I may possibly never be able again to visit Boston,
how much soever I may wish to do it, and sometimes resolve
upon it, my Character there is of somewhat less Importance.

How has my poor old Sister gone thro' the Winter?
Tell me frankly whether she lives comfortably, or is pinched ?
For I am afraid she is too cautious of acquainting me with all
her Difficulties, tho' I am always ready and willing to relieve
her when I am acquainted with them.

My Love to your Parents and the rest of the Family,

1 From the original in the possession of Mr. Louis A. Biddle. A draft exists
in L. C. — ED.

488 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1786

and to our young Fellow Traveller, who I hope will make
a fine Man. I am ever, Yours Affectionately

B. FRANKLIN.

1623. TO JONATHAN SHIPLEY (L. c.)

Philadelphia, Feb. 24th, 1786.
DEAR FRIEND,

I received lately your kind letter of Nov. 27th.1 My Re-
ception here was, as you have heard, very honourable indeed ;
but I was betray'd by it, and by some Remains of Ambition,
from which I had imagined myself free, to accept of the Chair
of Government for the State of Pennsylvania, when the proper
thing for me was Repose and a private Life. I hope, how-
ever, to be able to bear the Fatigue for one Year, and then to
retire.

1 have much regretted our having so little Opportunity for
Conversation when we last met.2 You could have given me
Informations and Counsels that I wanted, but we were scarce
a Minute together without being broke in upon. I am to
thank you, however, for the Pleasure I had after our Parting,
in reading the new Book 3 you gave me, which I think gener-
ally well written and likely to do good ; tho' the Reading
Time of most People is of late so taken up with News Papers
and little periodical Pamphlets, that few now-a-days venture
to attempt reading a Quarto Volume. I have admir'd to see,
that, in the last Century, a Folio, Burton on Melancholly,

xln A. P. S. — ED.

2 At Southampton, previous to Dr. Franklin's embarking for the United
States. — W. T. F.

8 Paley's « Moral Philosophy." — W. T. F.

1786] TO JONATHAN SHIPLEY 489

went through Six Editions in about Twenty Years. We
have, I believe, more Readers now, but not of such large
Books.

You seem desirous of knowing what Progress we make here
in improving our Governments. We are, I think, in the right
Road of Improvement, for we are making Experiments. I do
not oppose all that seem wrong, for the Multitude are more
effectually set right by Experience, than kept from going
wrong by Reasoning with them. And I think we are daily
more and more enlightened ; so that I have no doubt of our
obtaining in a few Years as much public Felicity, as good
Government is capable of affording.

Your NcwsPapers are fill'd with fictitious Accounts of
Anarchy, Confusion, Distresses, and Miseries, we are suppos'd
to be involved in, as Consequences of the Revolution ; and the
few remaining Friends of the old Government among us take
pains to magnify every little Inconvenience a Change in the
Course of Commerce may have occasion'd. To obviate the
Complaints they endeavour to excite, was written the enclos'd
little Piece,1 from which you may form a truer Idea of our
Situation, than your own public Prints would give you. And
I can assure you, that the great Body of our Nation find
themselves happy in the Change, and have not the smallest
Inclination to return to the Domination of Britain. There
could not be a stronger Proof of the general Approbation of
the Measures, that promoted the Change, and of the Change
itself, than has been given by the Assembly and Council of
this State, in the nearly unanimous Choice for their Governor,
of one who had been so much concern'd in those Measures ;
the Assembly being themselves the unbrib'd Choice of the

1 Probably the piece entitled, " The Retort Courteous." — ED.

49o THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1786

People, and therefore may be truly suppos'd of the same
Sentiments. I say nearly unanimous, because, of between
70 and 80 Votes, there were only my own and one other in
the negative.

As to my Domestic Circumstances, of which you kindly
desire to hear something, they are at present as happy as I
could wish them. I am surrounded by my Offspring, a
Dutiful and Affectionate Daughter in my House, with Six
Grandchildren, the eldest of which you have seen, who is now
at a College in the next Street, finishing the learned Part of
his Education; the others promising, both for Parts and
good Dispositions. What their Conduct may be, when they
grow up and enter the important Scenes of Life, I shall not
live to see, and I cannot foresee. I therefore enjoy among
them the present Hour, and leave the future to Providence.

He that raises a large Family does, indeed, while he lives
to observe them, stand, as Watts says, a broader Mark for
Sorrow; but then he stands a broader Mark for Pleasure too.
When we launch our little Fleet of Barques into the Ocean,
bound to different Ports, we hope for each a prosperous
Voyage; but contrary Winds, hidden Shoals, Storms, and
Enemies come in for a Share in the Disposition of Events;
and though these occasion a Mixture of Disappointment, yet,
considering the Risque where we can make no Insurance, we
should think ourselves happy if some return with Success.
My Son's Son, Temple Franklin, whom you have also seen,
having had a fine Farm of 600 Acres * convey'd to him by his
Father when we were at Southampton, has drop'd for the
present his Views of acting in the political Line, and applies
himself ardently to the Study and Practice of Agriculture.

1 At Rancocas, New Jersey. — ED.

1786] TO JONATHAN SHIPLEY 491

This is much more agreable to me, who esteem it the most
useful, the most independent, and therefore the noblest of
Employments. His Lands are on navigable water, com-
municating with the Delaware, and but about 16 Miles
from this City. He has associated to himself a very skillful
English Farmer lately arrived here, who is to instruct him
in the Business, and partakes for a Term of the Profits; so
that there is a great apparent Probability of their Success.

You will kindly expect a Word or two concerning myself.
My Health and Spirits continue, Thanks to God, as when
you saw me. The only complaint I then had, does not grow
worse, and is tolerable. I still have Enjoyment in the Com-
pany of my Friends; and, being easy in my Circumstances,
have many Reasons to like Living. But the Course of
Nature must soon put a period to my present Mode of Exist-
ence. This I shall submit to with less Regret, as, having
seen during a long Life a good deal of this World, I feel a
growing Curiosity to be acquainted with some other; and
can chearfully, with filial Confidence, resign my Spirit to the
conduct of that great and good Parent of Mankind, who
created it, and who has so graciously protected and prospered
me from my Birth to the present Hour. Wherever I am, I
hope always to retain the pleasing remembrance of your
Friendship, being with sincere and great Esteem, my dear
Friend, yours most affectionately,

B. FRANKLIN.

P. S. We all join in Respects to Mrs. Shipley, and best
wishes for the whole amiable Family.

492 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1786

1624. TO FERDINAND GRAND (L.C.)

Philadtt March 5, 1786.

DEAR FRIEND : — Since my last, which was of Jan. 29,
I have had the great Pleasure of receiving yours of Oct. 10,
'85, by which I learnt that yourself and the good Family con-
tinu'd well. The Vessel from Havre, after a long Passage
of about 12 Weeks, arrived at last with all my Things hi
pretty good Order, and sundry Parcels of Books, etc., from
you: when I had almost given over all Hopes of seeing
them ever again : So that I now find myself happily situated
in my own House, surrounded by my Offspring, with all
my Playthings and Amusements about me, and my Malady
not augmented, but still continuing tolerable.

I have drawn upon you lately for i,754-L. tournois, in favour
of Ross and Vaughan. My former Drafts since my Arrival
here were for £200 sterling, 3,110 livres tournois, and £500
sterling. I hope now to receive soon your Account com-
pleating the last Year, and that you have been paid my Divi-
dend on my Stock in the Funds.

I suppose my Grandson will write to you by this Convey-
ance, tho' he is now very busy in preparing to settle on his
Farm, which is a very good one, about 16 Miles from this
Town, Water Carriage to his Door, very convenient for
bringing his Produce to Market. Benjamin is at College,
and applies close to his Studies. He presents his Respects.

I rejoice to hear that the Emperor and the Dutch have
accommodated their Differences. Long may the Peace of
Europe continue! For I am of Opinion that there never

1786] TO FERDINAND GRAND 493

was a bad Peace, nor a good War. And I think your Minister,
who is so expert in composing Quarrels and preventing Wars,
the great Blessing of this Age. The Devil must send us three
or four Heroes, before he can get as much Slaughter of Man-
kind done as that one Man has prevented.

I do not understand how Caliastro was involved in the
Affair of the Cardinal,1 and have some Curiosity to know his
History when it shall be develop'd.

The English Papers, not only sent me gratis, as you observe,
to Algiers,3 but they are sending all the United States to
Destruction : By their Accounts you would think we were in
the utmost Distress, in Want of everything, all in Confu-
sion, no Government, and wishing again for that of England.
Be assured, my Friend, that these are all Fictions, mere
English Wishes, not American Realities. There are some few
Faults in our Constitutions, which is no wonder, considering
the stormy Season in which they were made, but those will
soon be corrected. And for the rest, I never saw greater and
more indubitable Marks of public Prosperity in any Country.
The Produce of our Agriculture bears a good Price, and is all
paid for in ready hard Money, all the labouring People have
high Wages, everybody is well cloth'd and well lodg'd, the
Poor provided for or assisted, and all Estates in Town and
Country much increased in Value. As to wishing for the
English Government, we should as soon wish for that of
Morocco.

Be so good as to forward the Letters you will receive here-

1 The affair of Cagliostro, Cardinal Rohan, and the diamond necklace. —
ED.

2 It was reported in the English newspapers that on his way back to America
Franklin had been captured by Algerine pirates and sold to slavery. — ED.

494 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1786

with, and charge me with the Expence. My Love to all the
good Family, and believe me ever, my dear Friend, yours most
affectionately,

B. FRANKLIN.

1625. TO BENJAMIN RUSH1

Philadelphia, March, 1786.

MY DEAR FRIEND,

During our long acquaintance, you have shown many
instances of your regard for me ; yet I must now desire you to
add one more to the number, which is, that, if you publish
your ingenious discourse on the Moral Sense, you will totally
omit and suppress that most extravagant encomium on your
friend Franklin, which hurt me exceedingly in the unexpected
hearing, and will mortify me beyond conception, if it should
appear from the press. Confiding in your compliance with
this earnest request, I am ever, my dear friend, yours most
affectionately,

B. FRANKLIN.2

1 From Sparks, Vol. X, p. 255. — ED.

2 Dr. Rush replied to this letter as follows : " Agreeably to your request,
I have suppressed the conclusion of my oration, but I cannot bear to think of
sending it out of our State or to Europe without connecting it with your name
I have therefore taken the liberty of inscribing it to you by a simple dedica-
tion, of which the enclosed is a copy. And, as you have never in the course
of our long acquaintance refused me a single favour, I must earnestly insist upon
your adding to my great and numerous obligations to you the permission
which I now solicit, to send my last as I did my first publication into the
world under the patronage of your name." — March nth, 1786.

The discourse here alluded to, On the Influence of Physical Causes on the
Moral Faculty, was delivered before The American Philosophical Society,
February 27th, 1786, and published soon afterwards. It contained the follow-
ing dedication : —

1786] TO M. LE VEILLARD 495

1626. TO M. LE VEILLARD1

Philadelphia, March 16, 1786.

MY DEAR FRIEND,

I received and read with great pleasure your kind letter of
October Qth.2 It informed me of your welfare, and that of
the best of good women, and of her amiable daughter, who
I think will tread in her steps. My effects came all in the
same ship, in good order; and we are now drinking every day
Us eaux tpuries de Passy with great satisfaction, as they
kept well, and seem to be rendered more agreeable by the
long voyage.

I am here in the bosom of my family, and am not only
happy myself, but have the felicity of seeing my country so.
Be assured, that all the stories spread in the English papers
of our distresses, and confusions, and discontents with our
new governments, are as chimerical as the history of my
being in chains at Algiers. They exist only in the wishes of
our enemies. America never was in higher prosperity, her
produce abundant and bearing a good price, her working

To

His Excellency
Benjamin Franklin Esqr

President

of the Supreme Executive Council of Pennsylvania
The friend & benefactor of mankind
the following Oration

is inscribed by

his grateful friend & humble Servant
the Author. — ED.

1 From "The Private Correspondence of Benjamin Franklin" , Vol.
I, p. 204. Dated by W. T. Franklin March 16, and by Duane, March 6. — ED.
3 In A. P. S. — ED.

496 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1786

people all employed and well paid, and all property in lands
and houses of more than treble the value it bore before the
war; and, our commerce being no longer the monopoly of
British merchants, we are furnished with all the foreign com-
modities we need, at much more reasonable rates than here-
tofore. So that we have no doubt of being able to discharge
more speedily the debt incurred by the war, than at first was
apprehended.

Our modes of collecting taxes are indeed as yet imperfect,
and we have need of more skill in financiering; but we im-
prove hi that kind of knowledge daily by experience. That
our people are contented with the Revolution, with their new
constitutions, and their foreign connexions, nothing can
afford a stronger proof, than the universally cordial and
joyous reception with which they welcomed the return of one,
that was supposed to have had a considerable share in pro-
moting them. All this is in answer to that part of your letter,
in which you seem to have been too much impressed with some
of the ideas, which those lying English papers endeavour to
inculcate concerning us.

I am astonished by what you write concerning the Prince
Eveque.1 If the charges against him are made good, it will
be another instance of the truth of those proverbs which teach
us, that Prodigality begets necessity, that Without economy
no revenue is sufficient, and that // is hard for an empty sack
to stand upright.

I am glad to hear of the marriage of Mademoiselle Brillon;2

1 Cardinal Rohan, EvSque de Strasbourg. Le Veillard had written an ac-
count of the theft of the diamond necklace.— ED.

2 She married (September 20, 1785) M. Vidal de Malachel, son of a secre-
tary of the king and who was " conseiller de la Cour des Aides." — ED.

1 786] TO FERDINAND GRAND 497

for every thing, that may contribute to the happiness of that
beloved family, gives me pleasure. Be pleased to offer them
my felicitations, and assure them of my best wishes.

Will you also be so good as to present my respectful com-
pliments to Madame la Duchesse d'Enville, and to M. le Due
de la Rochefoucauld? You may communicate the political
part of this letter to that excellent man. His good heart will
rejoice to hear of the welfare of America.

I made no progress when at sea in the history you men-
tion;1 but I was not idle there, having written three pieces,
each of some length; one on Nautical matters, another on
Chimneys; and a third a Description of my Vase for con-
suming smoke, with directions for using it. These are all
now printing in the Transactions of our Philosophical Society,
of which I hope soon to send you a copy.

My grandsons present their compliments. The eldest
is very busy in preparing for a country life, being to enter
upon his farm the 25th instant. It consists of about six
hundred acres, bounding on navigable water, sixteen miles
from Philadelphia. The youngest is at College, very diligent
in his studies. You know my situation, involved in public
cares; but they cannot make me forget, that you and I love
one another, and that I am ever, my dear friend, yours most
affectionately, B. FRANKLIN.

1627. TO FERDINAND GRAND (L. c.)

Philad' March 20, 1786

DEAR FRIEND, I wrote to you on the 5th Instant, and the
Vessel not being yet gone, I add a few Lines to give you a

1 Memoirs of his own life. — ED.
VOL. IX — 2 K

498 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1786

little Trouble in requesting you to receive and divide among
some of my Friends a few Hams (jambons) and some Cakes
of our Soap. The Hams are in a Cask, and have Labels to
denote who are [sic] they are for. I send them, because
Strangers here admire them for their good Taste and the
Sweetness of their Fat, which is all made by their Feeding on
Maize, and I hope they will come good to hand. The Soap
is thought to be the best in the World, for Shaving & for
washing Chinees, [sic] and other things of delicate Colours.
Please to divide them as follows :

For Mad . Grand .
Sir Geo. Grand
Yourself . . .
M. Le Veillard .
M. Brillon . . .
M. de Chaumont
Mad . Helvetius .
Abbd de La Roche
Abb6 Morellet

Cakes Cakes

. 2 M. Cabbanis .... i

. 2 M. Le Roy .... i

. 3 M. Roger at McSorin's i

. 2 M. Dailly i

. 2 M. Bougon .... i

. 2 Abb6 Chalut . . . i

. 2 M. Chalut .... i

. i Abbe* Arnaud . . . ,„, . j

. i Mon Epouse .... i
26
This kind of Soap is not made for Sale in this Country at

present, and perhaps I may not be able to procure any more

of it.
I must also request you to purchase & send me M. de La

Lande's "History of All the Navigable Canals in the World."

It is said to be in Folio with Plates.

1786] TO THOMAS JEFFERSON 499

I wish to you and yours all Sorts of Felicity, being ever my

dear Friend, yours most affectionately,

B. FRANKLIN.

Don't forget to charge me with the Expences I put you to
for Carriage, Postage, etc.

1628. TO THOMAS JEFFERSON (L. c.)

Philada March 20, 1786.

SIR : — I received your Favour of Oct. 5 l by Messrs.
Fitzhughs, with the Letters and Pacquets you were so kind
as to forward to me by those Gentlemen, who have winter'd
with us, and are but lately set out for Virginia. I will read
du Plessis's Papers as soon as I can find a little time, and say
something of them in a future Letter.

As to public Affairs, the Congress has not been able to
assemble more than 7 or 8 States during the whole Winter,
so the Treaty with P. remains still unratified, tho' there is no
doubt of its being done so, as a full Congress is expected next
Month. The Disposition to furnish Congress with ample
Powers augments daily, as People become more enlightened,
and I do not remember ever to have seen during my long
Life more Signs of Public Felicity than appear at present
throughout these States; the Cultivators of the Earth who
make the Bulk of our Nation having had good Crops, which
are paid for at high Prices with ready Money, the Artisans
too receive high Wages, and the Value of all real Estate is
augmented greatly. Merchants and Shopkeepers, indeed,

MnL. C — ED.

5oo THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1786

complain that there is not Business enough, but this is evi-
dently not owing to the Fewness of Buyers, but to the too
great Number of Sellers, for the Consumption of Goods was
never greater, as appears by the Dress, Furniture, and
Manner of Living of all Ranks of the People.

As to myself, I am, agreable to your kind Wishes, happy in
the Bosom of my Friends and Family, enjoying as good
Health as ever, the Stone excepted, which does not grow
worse: Be pleased to present my affectionate Respects to
the good Countess d'Houdetot, who, you say, does me the
Honour to enquire concerning me, and I pray you to assure
all other enquiring Friends that I retain, and shall ever
retain, the deepest Impression of their many Kindnesses to me
while I resided among them. I hope your Health is fully
established. My best Wishes attend you, being with great
and sincere Esteem, Dear Sir, your most obedient and most

humble Servant,

B. FRANKLIN.

1629. TO DANIEL ROBERDEAU 1 (L. c.)
Philadelphia, March 23, 1786

DEAR SIR : — I received your Favour proposing to sell me
your Plantation in this Country,2 which I should have an-
swer'd sooner if I could sooner have been informed of its

1 Daniel Roberdeau (1727-1795) was born in the island of St. Christopher,
W.I., came in youth to Philadelphia, where he engaged in business. He
served in the Revolutionary army and upon the Council of Safety. He
was first brigadier-general of the Pennsylvanian troops. — ED.

2 A farm eight or nine miles from Philadelphia. Roberdeau offered it for
sale because of his removal to Alexandria. His letter is dated February 4,
1786. (A. P. S.) — ED.

1 786] TO JEAN-BAPTISTE LE ROY 501

Qualities ; Quantity of Acres ; Price, and the Rent it affords ;
for not being in a condition to enjoy a Country Seat since my
Malady, the Stone, does not permit me to ride either on
Horseback or in a Wheel Carriage, I have no Inducement
to purchase Land but the Prospect of its producing greater
Profit than Money at Interest. It is but the other day that
the Gentleman s you referr'd me to, calFd to give me what
Information he could, which having consider'd I apprehend
the Purchase will not suit my Views, so that I must wish you
a better Chapman.
With great Esteem, I have the honour to be, Dear Sir,

your most obed* and most humble Servant.

B. FRANKLIN.

1630. TO JEAN-BAPTISTE LE ROY (L. c.)

Philada- March 27, 1786.

DEAR FRIEND,

I did myself the Pleasure of Writing to you soon after my
Arrival here. I hope you & yours continue well, tho' I have
not heard from you since I left France : a Country I most
sincerely love, having receiv'd in it so many Kindnesses,
many of them from you, of which I shall ever retain a grateful
Remembrance.

I employ'd my Leisure at Sea in writing three Pieces ; one
is a Discourse on the different kinds of Smoky Chimneys, &
the Means of curing them. Another is, the Description of
my Vase Stove, its Principles, Use and Advantages; this I
had promis'd to Mr Cadet jr. The third is a Letter on
Nautical Subjects, address'd to your Brother. They are all

1 A Mr. Bowie. — ED.

502 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1786

now printing in the second Volume of the Transactions of our
Philosophical Society, of which I hope to send a Copy to the
Academy this Summer, the Printing being far advanced.

The enclos'd for Mad6 LeRoy came to me under Cover
from Made Beniousky, who is now in the neighbouring Prov-
ince of Maryland, to my great Surprise, not being able to
imagine how she came there, or what she does there.

If you should have any thing to send to me, such as the
Memoires of the Academy, or any new Pamphlet of the kind
you know I like ; please to give it to M. Grand, who will pay
for me the Expence. I send to his Care for you a Catalogue
of our Forest Trees and Shrubs just published here, with a
spare Copy or two for any Friend of the Academy to whom
it may be agreable.

My Grandsons are well, and join with me in best Wishes
of every kind of Happiness to you and good Made le Roy.
Pray remember me to M. Bailly & all our Friends of the Com-
mission; and believe me ever, with sincere Esteem and un-
alterable Attachment, my dear Friend,

Yours most affectionately

B. FRANKLIN.

1 have sent you also

2 Cakes of our fine Soap
made of Myrtle Wax

1631. TO ABBE DE LA ROCHE (L. c.)

Philada April, 1786.

MY DEAR FRIEND : — I confess that I am a little [mu-
tilated] as a Correspondent. I wish to hear from my Friends
by every Pacquet, and presume they may excuse me if I write

I ;86] TO ABBE DE LA ROCHE 503

once a Year. The only Apology I can make, and that not a
very good one, is, that Indolence is natural to Age, and that
I am too much engag'd in Business. But I have too long
omitted Writing to my Friends at Auteuil. I throw myself
on their Good Nature and beg their Forgiveness. The con-
tinued Kindness towards me express'd in their Letters
affected me much, and I never perused those Letters but
with fresh Pleasure mix'd with the Remembrance of the
many delighted Hours I pass'd in that sweet Society, and the
Regret with which I find myself forever separated from it.

I wrote in November last to the Archbishop of Bordeaux,1
and executed his Commission so far as to send him the Seeds
he desired, which I hope arrived in good Order, tho' I have
not since heard from him. The kind of wooden houses he
wrote for are not usually made here, tho' possibly they may at
Boston. But that being remote from me, so that I could not
have the least Inspection of the Workmen, I have advised his
writing to the French Consul who resides there, and send him
an exact Plan of the Buildings with all their Proportions;
the Description in the Letter you sent me not being sufficiently
precise to be intelligible by our ignorant Carpenters, who
therefore could not compute the Cost.

It is rare that we see the Cardinal Bird so far north as
Pennsylvania. Those sent here from Virginia generally
perish by the Way, being a tender Bird and not well bearing
the Sea, so that we have not hitherto been able to get any for
Benjamin to take care of. Mr. Alexander has, I understand,
sent out several for our Dame2 in his Tobacco Ships to France,
which never arriv'd, and unless a Friend was going in the

1 Mp de Cice ; he became garde des sceaux in 1789. — ED.
* Madame Helvetius. — ED.

5o4 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1786

Ship who would take more than common Care of them, I
suppose one might send an hundred without landing one
alive. They would be very happy, I know, if they were once
under her Protection ; but they cannot come to her, and she
will not come to them. She may remember the Offer I
made her of 1,000 Acres of Woodland, out of which she
might cut a great Garden and have 1,000 Aviaries if she
pleased. I have a large Tract on the Ohio where Cardinals
are plenty. If I had been a Cardinal myself perhaps I might
have prevail'd with her. I am much oblig'd by her kind
Offer of sending Robes, Hats, Bonnets, and other French
Modes to my good Daughter, the Mother of Benjamin, to
whose filial Care of me and Attention to me I owe much of
my present Happiness. Inclos'd I send her Commission,
which if Notre Dame will be so good as to execute with her
usual good Taste and Judgment, Mr. Grand will immediately
pay the Bill, and I shall be very thankful.

You have, as we hear, an Assembly of Notables to confer
and advise on the Amendment of your Laws and Constitutions
of Government. It is remarkable that we should have the
same Project here at the same time. Our Assembly is to
meet next Month. I pray God that Success may attend the
Deliberations of both Assemblies, for the Happiness of both
Nations.

My Health continues much in the same State as when I
left France, my old Malady not growing worse, so that I am
able to go through a good deal of Business, and enjoy the
Conversation of my Friends as usual.

Your project of Transporting rather than drowning the
good Lady's eighteen Cats, is very humane. The kind
Treatment they experience from their present Mistress may

1786] TO ABB& DE LA ROCHE 505

possibly cause an Unwillingness to hazard the Change of Situ-
ation; but if they are of the Angora Breed, and can be
inform'd how two of their Tribe brought over by my Grand-
son are caress'd and almost ador'd here, they may possibly be
induc'd to transport themselves rather than risque any longer
the Persecution of the Abbe's, which sooner or later must end
in their Condemnation. Their Requ£t£ * is admirably well
written ; but their continually Increasing in Number will in
time make their Cause insupportable : Their Friends should,
therefore, advise them to submit voluntarily either to Trans-
port or to Castration.

The Remarks of a Grammarian on the Particle on, are full
of Wit and just Satire. My Friends here who understand
French have been highly entertain'd with them. They will
do good if you publish them. They have had some Effect
upon me, as you will see in this Letter : For when I spoke of
the prosperous State of our Affairs here, fearing you might
suppose that I thought all well because I myself had a profit-
able Place, I found it proper to add other Reasons.

Your taking the Pains of Translating the Addresses is a
strong Mark of the Continuance of your Friendship for me,
which gave me as much Pleasure as the Addresses themselves
had done, and that, you may, well believe, was not a little :
For indeed the Reception I met with on my Arrival far ex-
ceeded my Expectation. Popular Favour not the most con-
stant Thing in the World, still continues with regard to me,
my Election to the Presidentship for the second Year being
unanimous. Whether it will hold out to the End of the third,
is uncertain. A Man in high Place has so many Occasions,

1 This petition of the cats was written by Abbe Morellet, and has often
been published in the collected works of Benjamin Franklin. — ED.

So6 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1786

which he cannot avoid, of disobliging, if he does his Duty;
and those he disobliges have so much more Resentment, than
those he obliges have Gratitude, that it often happens when
he is strongly attack'd he is weakly defended. You will,
therefore, not wonder if you should hear that I do not finish
my political Career with the same Eclat that I began it.

It grieves me to learn that you have been afflicted with
Sickness. It is, as you say, the Condition of living, but it
seems a hard Condition. I sometimes wonder that all good
Men and Women are not by Providence kept free from Pain
and Disease. In the best of all possible Worlds, I should
suppose it must be so ; and I am piously inclin'd to believe
that this World's not being better made was owing merely to
the Badness of the Materials.

Embrace for me tenderly the good Dame, whom I love as
ever. I thought to have written to her and to Mr. Cabanis
by the Pacquet, but must defer it to the next for want of
Time. I am, my dear Friend, with sincere Esteem and

Affection, yours ever,

B. FRANKLIN.

Please to present my Respects to M. Le Roy and others of
the Wednesday's Dining Party, and love to the Stars and to
your Family. My Grandson joins me in best Wishes.

1632. TO MRS. JANE MECOM (L. c.)

Philadelphia, April 8, 1786.

DEAR SISTER : — I received your kind Letter of the 2ist of
February ; I have also received the Box of Soap, the Substance

1786] TO MRS. JANE MECOM 507

of which appears to be very good, but its Consistence had
probably been affected by the Frost, for unless very tenderly
and cautiously handled, the Cakes would crumble into little
Pieces between one's Fingers. However, having an Oppor-
tunity of sending some to my Friends, in France, who much
admir'd what I had of you formerly, I with much difficulty
took out 22 Cakes, which I wrapt separately in spongy Paper,
hoping that, as they dry'd, they might consolidate, and the
infinite Number of little Cracks that appear'd in them be
closed, and the Parts again united, so I sent them away in a
small Box. But having since dry'd a cake very gradually, I
fear I shall be disappointed in that Expectation, for it seems
as crumbly as before, and comes to pieces in the Water, so
that I am sorry that I sent any of it away, till I had consulted
you upon it, who probably must have met with like Accident
before, and might know of some Remedy.

Business having prevented my Writing, Sally has been
making an Experiment. She put 3 or 4 pound of the Crumbs,
about the size of Chestnuts, into a little Kettle with some
Water, and over a slow Fire, melted them together, and when
the whole was uniformly fluid, laded it out into little Paper
Pans of the Size of the Cakes. These grew stiff when cold,
but were rather soft, and shrunk greatly in drying. Being
now dry, they are exceedingly hard, close-grained, and solid,
and appear to have all the Qualities of excellent Crown
Soap. Only in drying they are twisted and warp'd out of
Shape; wherefore I have not continu'd the Process on the
rest of the Box, but resolv'd to send you this particular Ac-
count, thinking you may possibly teach me a better Method.

Capt. All is just arriv'd here, who has given me the pleasure
of hearing that you were very well a few Weeks since; he

5o8 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1786

says he does not remember you to have ever look'd better, or
to be more active. I continue much as I have been for some
time past, and am always your affectionate Brother,

B. FRANKLIN.

Draw upon me for the Expence of the Soap, and your Bill
shall be paid on sight.

1633. TO MRS. JANE MECOM (L. c.)

Philad*, April 25, 1786

DEAR SISTER: — I wrote you a long Letter lately about
the Soap which I suppose to have become crumbly by means
of Frost; and acquainting you that we had made some of
the Crumbs solid again by re-melting them with Water. I
farther requested your Advice whether to re- melt it all, and in
what manner. That you may better understand the Case, I
send you herewith some of the crumbly Soap, and a Piece
of that which we consolidated by re-melting the Crumbs.
But since I wrote that Letter, I find that a few of the Cakes
which appear'd ready to fall to pieces, being set separately on
their Edges upon a Shelf in a Closet to dry gradually, seem
now to have become very firm ; and I have therefore this day
taken all out of the Box, and set them to dry in the same
slow manner; perhaps they may all grow firm, and make
the re-melting unnecessary.

I send also with this one of the Books in which is printed
my Proposal of a new Alphabet, which you desired to see.

I am ever your affectionate Brother,

B. FRANKLIN.

1786] TO ANDREW STRAHAN 509

1634. TO ANDREW STRAHAN (L. c.)

Philad*. May 6. 1786

DEAR SIR,

I receiv'd since my Arrival here your Letters of July 8 and
26. and have inquir'd concerning Mr Wm Peterkin, but do not
learn that he has arrived in this State. If I should hereafter
hear of him or see him, you may be assured, that I shall, on
Ace' of your Recommendation, render him any Service that
may be in my Power.

I condole with you most sincerely on the Departure of
your good Father and Mother, my old and beloved Friends.
Your Consolation will be that you have been a good and duti-
ful Son, & that their Memory will ever be respected by all who
had the Happiness of being acquainted with them.

Remember me affectionately to your Sister Spottiswoode,
and your Brother George. You mention that their Children
are well, but say nothing of the Children of your Sister
Johnson. I feel my self interested in what relates to any of
your Family, and shall be glad to hear also of the Welfare
of those Children — I suppose you succeed in the Office of
King's Printer.

I thank you for your kind Offers of Service, and I desire
that if in any thing I can be of use to you here, you would
command me freely.

The Admiralty, in consideration of my having forbid our
American Cruisers to intercept or molest Capt. Cook in case
they should meet with him on his Return, made me a Present
of his last Voyage which Lord Howe sent to me in France;
but unluckily a Mistake was made in sending a Duplicate of

5io THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1786

the third Volume instead of the first. When my Grandson
went afterwards to London, I returned by him the super-
fluous 3d Vol. and he obtain'd for me the first ; and it was sent
by Mr Woodmason, Stationer, to Rouen for me, together with
Cook's second Voyage which my Grandson bought to corn-
pleat my Set of the Voyages of that great Navigator : But
they never arriv'd or could be heard of. I would therefore
now request of you to send me the second Voyage, together
with the first Volume of the last ; for which my Son, on your
presenting him the Account & showing him this Line, will
pay the Charge.

With best Wishes for your Prosperity, I am, Dear Sir,
Your affectionate Friend

& most obedient Servant

B. FRANKLIN.

1635. TO MRS. MARY HEWSON1

Philadelphia, May 6, 1786.

MY DEAR FRIEND,

A long winter has past, and I have not had the pleasure of a
line from you, acquainting me with your and your children's
welfare, since I left England. I suppose you have been in
Yorkshire, out of the way and knowledge of opportunities;
for I will not think that you have forgotten me.

To make me some amends, I received a few days past a
large pacquet from Mr. Williams, dated September, 1776,
near ten years since, containing three letters from you, one of
December 12, 1775. Tm's pacquet had been received by Mr.

1 From " A Collection of the Familiar Letters and Miscellaneous Papers of
Benjamin Franklin" , p. 204. — ED.

1 786] TO MRS. MARY HEWSON 511

Bache, after my departure for France, lay dormant among his
papers during all my absence, and has just now broke out upon
me, like words, that had been, as somebody says, congealed in
northern air. Therein I find all the pleasing little family
history of your children; how William had begun to spell,
overcoming, by strength of memory, all the difficulty occa-
sioned by the common wretched alphabet, while you were
convinced of the utility of our new one ; how Tom, genius-
like, struck out new paths, and, relinquishing the old names of
the letters, called U bell, and P bottle; how Eliza began to
grow jolly, that is, fat and handsome, resembling aunt Rooke,
whom I used to call my lovely. Together with all the then
news of lady Blount's having produced at length a boy; of
Dolly's being well, and of poor good Catherine's decease;
of your affairs with Muir and Atkinson, and of their contract
for feeding the fish in the channel ; of the Vinys and their
jaunt to Cambridge in the long carriage ; of Dolly's journey to
Wales with Mrs. Scott ; of the Wilkeses, the Pearces, Elphin-
stones, &c. ; — concluding with a kind of promise, that, as
soon as the ministry and Congress agreed to make peace, I
should have you with me in America. That peace has been
some time made ; but, alas ! the promise is not yet fulfilled.

I have found my family here in health, good circumstances,
and well respected by their fellow citizens. The companions
of my youth are indeed almost all departed, but I find an
agreeable society among their children and grandchildren.
I have public business enough to preserve me from ennui,
and private amusement besides in conversation, books, my
garden, and cribbage. Considering our well-furnished, plen-
tiful market as the best of gardens, I am turning mine, in the
midst of which my house stands, into grass plots and gravel

512 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1786

walks, with trees and flowering shrubs. Cards we some-
times play here, in long winter evenings ; but it is as they play
at chess, not for money, but for honour, or the pleasure of
beating one another. This will not be quite a novelty to you,
as you may remember we played together in that manner
during the winter at Passy. I have indeed now and then a
little compunction in reflecting that I spend time so idly;
but another reflection comes to relieve me, whispering, " You
know that the soul is immortal; why then should you be such a
niggard o) a little time, when you have a whole eternity bejore
you ?" So, being easily convinced, and, like other reasonable
creatures, satisfied with a small reason, when it is in favour of
doing what I have a mind to, I shuffle the cards again, and
begin another game.

As to public amusements, we have neither plays nor operas,
but we had yesterday a kind of oratorio, as you will see by
the enclosed paper ; and we have assemblies, balls, and con-
certs, besides little parties at one another's houses, in which
there is sometimes dancing, and frequently good music; so
that we jog on in life as pleasantly as you do in England ; any-
where but in London, for there you have plays performed by
good actors. That, however, is, I think, the only advantage
London has over Philadelphia.

Temple has turned his thoughts to agriculture, which he
pursues ardently, being in possession of a fine farm, that his
father lately conveyed to him. Ben is finishing his studies at
college, and continues to behave as well as when you knew
him, so that I think he will make you a good son. His younger
brothers and sisters are also promising, appearing to have good
tempers and dispositions, as well as good constitutions. As
to myself, I think my general health and spirits rather better

1 7»6] TO MRS. MARY HEWSON 513

than when you saw me. The particular malady I then com-
plained of continues tolerable. With sincere and very great
esteem, I am ever, my dear friend, yours most affectionately,

B. FRANKLIN.

P. S. My children and grandchildren join with me in best
wishes for you and yours. My love to my godson, to Eliza,
and to honest Tom. They will all find agreeable companions
here. Love to Dolly, and tell her she will do well to come
with you.

1636. TO MRS. MARY HEWSON l (p. c.)

Philad* May 30, 1786.

DEAR POLLY,

I have just received your kind Letter of April 2, which made
me some Amends for your long Silence. By the last Ship
from hence I wrote to you acknowledging the Receipt of some
very old Letters, when I was sorry I could mention none of
later date. I have, however, no right to complain, being so
bad a Correspondent myself. But my last was a long one, and
I hope you have receiv'd it.

You seem now inclin'd to come over, if you could meet with
a Captain, that you know and like. We mentioned it to
Captain Falkener. He goes no more to sea, but strongly
recommends Capt. Willet, who carries this Letter, as a
good Man and excellent Seaman. His Ship is the Harmony,
which lately brought over Mr. and Mrs. Bingham. Mr.
Williams will hardly, I doubt, be with you in time this Year
to assist in your Embarkation; but, if you apply to Messrs.
Johnson and Company, American Merchants, to whom I

1 From the original in the possession of T. Hewson Bradford, M.D. — ED.
VOL. IX — 2 L

5I4 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1786

write, I am persuaded they will make the Bargain for you,
and assist you with their Advice in every Circumstance.

Temple, who presents his Respects, has, however, no Hopes
of your Coming. He says you were so long irresolute and
wavering about the Journey to Paris, that he thinks it unlikely
you will decide firmly to make the Voyage of America.

I enclose a truer State of Affairs in our Country, than your
public Prints will afford you, and I pray " God guide you."

This Family are all well, and join in Love to you and yours

with your affectionate

B. FRANKLIN.

P. S. Capt. Willet is to leave London on his Return about
the ist of August. Your son Ben, and all this family, join
in the hope of your resolving to come over.1

1637. TO MRS. JANE MECOM (L. c.)

Philad* June 3. 1786.

DEAR SISTER,

I have just received a kind Letter from you without Date ;
but it is that in which you mention your learning the new
Alphabet &c.

Your Grandson behaves very well, and is constantly employ 'd
in writing for me, and will be so some time longer. As to
my Reproving and Advising him, which you desire, he has not
hitherto appeared to need it, which is lucky, as I am not fond
of giving Advice, having seldom seen it taken. An Italian
Poet in his Account of a Voyage to the Moon, tells us that

1 Mrs. Hewson soon afterwards came over with her family to America, and
established herself at Philadelphia. — ED.

1786] TO J. FRANKLIN, SMITH, JENKINS, IN COUNCIL 515

All things lost on Earth are treasured there.
On which somebody observ'd, There must then be in the
Moon a great deal of Good Advice.

Ben, concerning whom you enquire, is at the University,
and very diligent in his Studies. Will is at the Episcopal
Academy, & learns well, the rest are all promising, your
Niece particularly, and the whole Family, Thank God,
enjoy at present very good Health. — We join in Love to you

& yours, I am ever,

Your affectionate Brother

B. FRANKLIN.
Love to Cousin Williams & Family

1638. TO JOHN FRANKLIN, WILLIAM HOOKER
SMITH AND JOHN JENKINS. IN COUNCIL.

(L.L.)
Philad? June n. 1786

GENTLEMEN,

I received in its time your Letter of the 25th of February
last, written in behalf of the People settled at Wyoming, and
requesting a Protection of Government for an Agent who might
be sent hither, to explain your Grievances &c. The Request
appear'd to us to be reasonable ; and such a Protection would
have been immediately sent, but that we were told the Gentle-
man who brought your Letter, Captain Schot being in Town,
and well acquainted with your Affairs, the giving him a Hear-
ing might possibly answer your purpose as well, and spare
you the Expence & Trouble of sending a special Agent. He
was accordingly heard before the Council, and had an Oppor-
tunity of conversing separately with several of the Members

5i6 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1786

as well as the Members of Assembly, and gave so clear and so
affecting an Account of the Situation of your People, their
present Disposition and former Sufferings, as inclin'd the
Government in general to show them every kind of reasonable
Favour. The Assembly accordingly took the necessary pre-
vious Steps for a Compliance with your Request respecting
a separate County which will probably be compleated at their
next Session. But as there may be other Matters necessary
to be consider'd and discuss'd, in order to establish solid and
lasting Quiet, the Council have since judged that it might
still be useful if your first Proposal of sending an Agent hither
were agreed to, and if one or more, chosen and appointed by
the People should accordingly be here about the Beginning of
the Session, which was fixt for the 22d of August next. You
may therefore now acquaint the Settlers, that upon Informa-
tion of such Appointment, a Passport or Safe Conduct under
the great Seal for the Person or Persons so appointed shall
be sent to you, giving him or them perfect Security in coming,
residing here, and returning, from all Arrests on Suits of any
kind ; and full Freedom & Protection from every Hindrance,
Restraint or Molestation whatsoever.

Be assured, Gentlemen, that it will be a great Pleasure to
the whole Council, as well as to myself in particular, if we can
be instrumental by just & reasonable Measures, in promoting
the Happiness of so great a Body of our People as the Settlers
of Wyoming consist of.

I am Gentlemen

Your Friend and humble Servt.

B. F.

1786] TO CHARLES THOMSON 517

1639. TO CHARLES THOMSON1

Philadelphia, June 18, 1786.

DEAR SIR,

I received in its time your favour of the i5th past,2 with an
extract from the contract made at Versailles, February 2ist,
1783. This extract being a translation, I have spent some time
in searching for a copy. I supposed I might have the original,
but have not yet met with it, and will now no longer delay
my answer, which is, that, if the translation be just, and the
original really mentions three millions, as given before the
treaty of 1778, it has either been a mistake of one million, or
the million received from the Farmers- General is included,
as a don gratuit of the King ; in which latter case, as you ob-
serve, they owe us for the tobacco received, in part. For I
think it a certainty, that no money was received from the
crown, which did not go directly into the hands of Mr. Grand ;
and, though he accounts for three millions received before
1778, one of them is the million received of the Farmers-
General.

An explanation and adjustment of this matter may, I
make no doubt, be easily obtained by writing to Mr. Grand
and Mr. Jefferson. There can be no error of that magnitude
in Mr. Grand's accounts, for they were rendered to the Com-
missioners from time to time, and settled while all the transac-

1 First printed by Sparks, Vol. X, p. 443. The affair of " the lost million "
is referred to in the following letters : to Ferdinand Grand, July n, 1786 ; to
Charles Thomson, January 27, 1787; and also in various letters from M.
Durival to M. Grand and from M. Grand to Franklin found in Sparks, Vol. X,
pp. 269-272. — ED.

2 In A. P. S. — ED.

5i8 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1786

tions were fresh in memory. And I am persuaded , the minister
will very readily either correct the error in the contract, or
direct our demanding of the Farmers the value of the tobacco,
as the case may be. With great and sincere esteem, I have

the honour to be, Sir, &c.

B. FRANKLIN.

1640. TO NOAH WEBSTER (L. L.)

Philada June 18, 1786.

SIR,

I received the Letter you did me the honour of writing to
me the 24th past,1 with the Scheme inclosed of your reform'd
Alphabet. I think the Reformation not only necessary, but
practicable ; but have so much to say to you on the Subject,
that I wish to see and confer with you upon it, as that would
save much Time and Writing. Sounds, till such an Alphabet
is fix'd, not being easily explained or discoursed of clearly
upon Paper.

I have formerly consider'd this Matter pretty fully, and con-
triv'd some of the means of carrying it into Execution, so as
gradually to render the Reformation general. Our Ideas are
so nearly similar, that I make no doubt of our easily agreeing
on the Plan; and you may depend on the best Support I
may be able to give it, as a Part of your Institute? of which
I wish you would bring with you a compleat Copy, having as
yet seen only a part of it : I shall then be better able to recom-
mend it as you desire. Hoping to have soon the Pleasure of
seeing you, I do not enlarge, but am with sincere Esteem, Sir,
&c. B. FRANKLIN.

1 In A. P. S. — ED.

2 Grammatical Institute of the English Language, published in 1784. — ED.

I786] TO JAN INGENHOUSZ 5'9

1641. TO JAN INGENHOUSZ (L. c.)

Philad* June 27, 1786.

DEAR FRIEND : — My Time being much taken up with the
Business of my present Station, I can now only write a short
Letter ; but in the Volume of our Transactions, which I send
you herewith, you will find a very long Letter, which I wrote
to you at Sea when on my Passage hither. I inclose some
Papers relating to your Affair with Wharton. The promise
therein made, tho' repeatedly urg'd by me and Mr. Vaughan,
was never fulfilled. The Father is since striken with the
Palsie, and the Son is in a worse Situation, — being, as is said,
an habitual Drunkard. In short, I believe nothing is to be
done with him by fair Means, and unless you send a Power
of Attorney to sue for your Demand, or come yourself, I am
afraid you will never get anything. You are upon the List
of Persons nominated to be Members of our Philosophical
Society, and will be chosen undoubtedly at the next full
Meeting, which perhaps will not be till January next. I have
given them the German Edition of your Pieces, which you
presented to them ; and have told them that I have some other
Presents from you which I shall deliver as soon as I can put
my things in order so as to find them.

Except that I am too much encumber'd with Business, I
find myself happily situated here, among my numerous
Friends, plac'd at the Head of my Country by its unanimous
Voice, in the Bosom of my Family, my Offspring to wait
on me and nurse me, in a House I built 23 Years since to my
Mind.

520 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1786

My Malady, the Stone, indeed continues, but does not grow
worse ; and human Nature is subject to so many more terrible
Evils, that I ought to be content with the Share allotted me.
I rejoice to hear that the Difference between the Emperor and
your Country is accommodated, for I love Peace. You will
see in the Treaty we have made with -Prussia some Marks of
my Endeavors to lessen the Calamities of future Wars. Pre-
sent my humble Respects, and best wishes to your good Mas-
ter, if you think they may not be unacceptable, and believe
me ever, with sincere Affection, your old true Friend and hum-
ble Servant,

B. FRANKLIN.

If you send a Power of Attorney, let it be to Mr. Samuel
Vaughan, jr.

1642. TO 1 (L. c.)

Phila. July 3. 1786. (?)

DEAR SIR,

I have read your Manuscript with some Attention. By the
Argument it contains against the Doctrines of a particular
Providence, tho' you allow a general Providence, you strike at
the Foundation of all Religion. For without the Belief of a
Providence, that takes Cognizance of, guards, and guides, and
may favour particular Persons, there is no Motive to Worship a
Deity, to fear its Displeasure, or to pray for its Protection. I
will not enter into any Discussion of your Principles, tho'

lrThe auto, draft of this letter in A. P. S. is endorsed by Franklin:
"Rough of Letter dissuading from publishing his Piece." S. pub-
lished it as addressed to Thomas Paine. The deistical writings of Thomas
Paine were not published until several years after the supposed date of this
letter. — ED.

i;86] TO 521

you seem to desire it. At present I shall only give you my
Opinion, that, though your Reasonings are subtile, and may
prevail with some Readers, you will not succeed so as to change
the general Sentiments of Mankind on that Subject, and the
Consequence of printing this Piece will be, a great deal of
Odium drawn upon yourself, Mischief to you, and no Benefit
to others. He that spits against the Wind, spits in his own
Face.

But, were you to succeed, do you imagine any Good would
be done by it ? You yourself may find it easy to live a virtu-
ous Life, without the Assistance afforded by Religion; you
having a clear Perception of the Advantages of Virtue, and
the Disadvantages of Vice, and possessing a Strength of Reso-
lution sufficient to enable you to resist common Temptations.
But think how great a Proportion of Mankind consists of weak
and ignorant Men and Women, and of inexperienced, and in-
considerate Youth of both Sexes, who have need of the Motives
of Religion to restrain them from Vice, to support their Virtue,
and retain them in the Practice of it till it becomes habitual,
which is the great Point for its Security. And perhaps you
are indebted to her originally, that is, to your Religious Edu-
cation, for the Habits of Virtue upon which you now justly
value yourself. You might easily display your excellent
Talents of reasoning upon a less hazardous subject, and
thereby obtain a Rank with our most distinguish'd Authors.
For among us it is not necessary, as among the Hottentots,
that a Youth, to be receiv'd into the Company of men, should
prove his Manhood by beating his Mother.

I would advise you, therefore, not to attempt unchaining
the Tyger, but to burn this Piece before it is seen by any other
Person ; whereby you will save yourself a great deal of Morti-

522 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1786

fication from the Enemies it may raise against you, and per-
haps a good deal of Regret and Repentance. If men are so
wicked as we now see them with religion, what would they be
if without it. I intend this Letter itself as a Proof of my
Friendship, and therefore add no Professions to it ; but sub-
scribe simply yours, B. F.

1643. TO MRS. JANE MECOM (L. c.)

Philad* July 4, 1786.
DEAR SISTER,

I receiv'd the second Box of Soap, which appears very firm
and very good. I am much obliged by the Pains you have
taken to humour me in that Matter.1 You need not be con-
cern'd, in writing to me, about your bad Spelling ; for, in my
Opinion, as our Alphabet now Stands, the bad Spelling, or
what is call'd so, is generally the best, as conforming to the
Sound of the Letters and of the Words. To give you an
Instance: A Gentleman receiving a Letter, in which were
these Words, — Not finding Brown at horn, I delivard your
meseg to his yf. The Gentleman finding it bad Spelling, and
therefore not very intelligible, called his Lady to help him
read it. Between them they pick'd out the meaning of all
but the yf, which they could not understand. The lady
propos'd calling her Chambermaid : for Betty, says she, has
the best knack at reading bad Spelling of any one I know.
Betty came, and was surprised, that neither Sir nor Madam
could tell what yf was. "Why," says she, "y f spells Wife;
what else can it spell?" And, indeed, it is a much better, as

1 See letter to Mrs. Mecom, April 8, 1786. — ED.

1786] TO CHARLES THOMSON 523

well as shorter method of spelling Wife, than by doubleyou,
i, ej, e, which in reality spells doubleyijey.

Your Grandson is well and behaves well. The Family
also is all well. There is much Rejoicing in Town to-day,
it being the Anniversary of the Declaration of Independence,
which we sign'd this day Ten Years, and thereby hazarded
Lives and Fortunes. God was pleas'd to put a favourable
End to the Contest much sooner than we had reason to expect.
His Name be praised. Adieu, your affectionate Brother

B. FRANKLIN.

1644. TO CHARLES THOMSON (L. c.)

Philad* July 6, 1786.

SIR : — This will be delivered to you by Scotosh, son to the
Half-King to the Wyondot Nation, who is well recommended
as having been always very friendly to our People, and who,
with his Suite, goes to New York on a Visit to Congress. I
make no doubt but the same Care will be taken of them, that
they may be accommodated comfortably while at New York,
as they have experienc'd here. With great Esteem, I have the
honour to be, sir, your most obedient and most humble Ser-
vant,

B. FRANKLIN.

[Endorsed: Read 12 July, 1786. Referred to Secretary at

War to report.]

[ENCLOSURE.]

Philadelphia, July 3, 1786.

Scotosh, an Indian chief of the Wyondots, and son to the half-king of that
nation, visited the President, accompanied by Mons. Pierre Drouillier, a French
trader of Detroit, as Interpreter, who acquainted the President that the Chief
had a few words to deliver from his Father.

524 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1786

The Chief then taking in his hand three strings of white wampum, said :

" Brothers, I come from my Father to speak to you of good and bad affairs;
good and bad news my Father now speaks.

" ' My Brothers :

" ' I inform you that among my people all is good ; we have no bad affairs,
no bad news, to relate to you. Nor have I heard of any bad news from
Detroit. [A string.]

" ' Near the Falls I have heard there are bad affairs ; but that country is
far from mine. There are some bad people thereabouts, vagabonds from dif-
ferent nations, but none of my people are among them. [A string.]

" ' My Brothers :

" ' I shall be very glad to hear that the measuring the Indian country may
be delayed. For the bad people will, I fear, take occasion from the measur-
ing to do more mischief. Perhaps the measurers will be killed. And it would
give pain to me and my nation to hear such bad news.' " [A string.]

The chief then spoke as from himself :

" Brothers :

" You have made a good clear road for us to come to you without danger
or inconvenience. I have found it good and safe, having been kindly treated
everywhere by your people. We will do the same for them, when they have
occasion to pass through our country.

" Brothers :

" I request you would as soon as possible let me know what you think of the
words I brought from my father, that I may acquaint him therewith, and the
mischief to the measurers may be prevented."

He added that he was going to New York to visit the Congress, and that
he had a curiosity to cross the seas and see France.

The President replied that he would communicate the words to the Coun-
cil, and on Wednesday give an answer. He had no expectation of so much
formality in this visit, or he should have requested a meeting of the Council
to receive him.

July 5, 1786.

Scotosh, son to the half-king of the Wyondots, with Mr. Drouillier, his
Interpreter, coming again to the President's house, the President spoke to him
as follows : —

"Brother:

" I have communicated to the Council the words you delivered to me from
your father, and we now return the answer I am about to give you to be sent
him.

"'Our Brother:

" ' We are glad to learn from you that there are no bad affairs in your
country, and that all is well with you. We hope it may long so continue.
[A string.]

i;86] TO JOHN JAY 525

" ' Our Brother :

" ' We know there are some bad people about the Falls, from whence we
sometimes hear of mischief done by them. We are glad that none of our
friends, the Wyondots, are among them. For they will probably soon suffer
for their evil action. [A string.]

" ' Our Brother :

" ' This state of Pennsylvania measures no land but what has been fairly
purchased of the Six Nations. The country you speak of is far beyond our
limits, and the measuring of it under the direction of Congress. It is there-
fore with that great Council to consider your friendly advice on that sub-
ject.' " [A string.]

The President then acquainted Scotosh that, as he was going to New York,
the Council had ordered some money to be given to him for his travelling
expense (which was accordingly done,) and that the charge of their entertain-
ment while here would also be defrayed ; for which he returned hearty
thanks. He was at the same time assured that we should endeavor always to
keep the road between us as open, clear, and safe as he always found it.

1645. TO JOHN JAY (L.C.)

Philad* July 6, 1786.

SIR: — The inclos'd Paper will inform you of what has
pass'd here between Scotosh, a Chief of the Wyondot Nation,
and this Government, on his Way to Congress : He is recom-
mended as having been always very friendly to our People,
and the Council have defray'd the Expence of him and his
Company here and to New York, where, as Col. Harmar
informs, he is to visit Congress. He expresses a strong De-
sire of going to France; but as it must cost something con-
siderable to support him thither, there, and back again, we
have given him no Expectation that the Congress will approve
of it : But if it could be well afforded, I should conceive it might
be of Use to our Affairs in that Part of the Country, if, after
viewing the Court and Troops and Population of France,

526 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1786

he should return impress'd with a high Idea of the Greatness
and Power of our Ally, and thence be able to influence the
Western Indians with Opinions proper to defeat the Insinua-
tions of the English who are posted on those Frontiers.

With great Regards, I have the Honour to be, sir, your
most obedient and most humble Servant,

B. FRANKLIN.

1646. TO DR. ARTHAUD1 (L. c.)

Philadelphia, July 9. 1786.

SIR,

I received the Letter you did me the honour of writing to
me the i5th of March last,2 together with the printed Pieces
that accompanied it. It gave me great Pleasure to find, that
the Improvement of Science is attended to in a Country,
where the Climate was suppos'd naturally to occasion Indo-
lence, and an Unwillingness to take Pains except for immediate
Profit. I am very sensible of the great Honour done me by the
Society of Philadelphians,3 in naming me among their Asso-
ciates ; and I beg they would accept my thankful Acknowledge-
ments, together with the second Volume of the Transactions
of our Society here. I am much oblig'd by the favourable
mention you were pleased to make of me in your excellent Dis-
course at the first Opening of your Assemblies. Your Ac-
count of the Cape, contains a Variety of Knowledge respecting
it that we had not before, and many Particular Observations
for preserving Health, that may be useful to our Northern

1 Secretary of Cercle des Philadelphes, Cap Francaise, Cape Haytien. — ED.

2 In A. P. S. — ED.

3 A society for the cultivation of Arts and Sciences in St. Domingo. — ED.

1786] TO FERDINAND GRAND 527

People who visit your Island. Wishing Success to the La-
bours of the Society, I have the honour to be,

Sir,

Your most obedient

& most humble Servant

B. FRANKLIN.

1647. TO NOAH WEBSTER (L. c.)

Philad* July 9, 1786.

SIR : — I received your Favour of the 23d past.1 I think
with you that your Lecturing on the Language will be of
great Use in preparing the Minds of People for the Improve-
ments proposed, and therefore would not advise your omitting
any of the Engagements you have made, for the sake of being
here sooner than your Business requires — that is, in Septem-
ber or October next. I shall then be glad to see and confer
with you on the Subject, being with great Esteem, Sir, etc.

B. FRANKLIN.

1648. TO FERDINAND GRAND2 (L. c.)

Philadelphia, July u, 1786.

Sm,

I send you enclosed some letters, that have passed between
the Secretary of Congress and me, respecting three million of
Livres, acknowledged to have been received, before the Treaty
of February 1778 as Don gratuit from the King, of which
only Two Millions are found in your accounts ; unless the

1 In A. P. S. — ED. * From the Jefferson Papers (L. C). — ED.

528 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1786

million from the Fanners- General be one of the three. I have
[been] assured, that all the money received from the King,
whether as Loan or Gift, went through your hands ; and as I
always looked on the million we had of the Farmers- General
to be distinct from what we had of the Crown, I wonder how
I came to sign the Contract acknowledging three millions of
gift, when, in reality, there was only two, exclusive of that
from the Farmers ; and as both you and I examined the project
of the Contract before I signed it, I am surprised, that neither
of us took notice of the error.

It is possible, that the million furnished ostensibly by the
Farmers, was in fact a gift of the Crown, in which case, as Mr.
Thomson observes, they owe us for the two Ship Loads of
Tobacco, which they received on account of it. I most
earnestly request of you to get this matter explained, that I
may stand clear before I die, lest some enemy should after-
wards accuse me of having received a million not accounted

for. I am, &c.

B. FRANKLIN.

1649. TO JOSEPH PRIESTLEY (L. c.)

Philad*, July 29. 1786.

MY DEAR FRIEND,

I received lately the 3d Volume of your Experiments and
Observations relating to various Branches of Natural Philoso-
phy, for which please to accept my Thanks. It contains a
great deal of very curious & interesting Matter. I know of
no Philosopher who starts so much good Game for the Hun-
ters after Knowledge as you do. Go on and prosper. — Our
Society will be much oblig'd by the Volume you have sent to

1786] TO RICHARD PRICE 529

them, which shall be delivered at their next Meeting ; and you
will receive by M™ Vaughan the second Volume of their Trans-
actions.

I forget whether it was by you or by D* Price that the Bearer
Mr Nicklin was formerly recommended to me. He has
married and settled among us, and is much esteemed here.
I am, my dear Friend, with great Sincerity,
Yours most affectionately

B. FRANKLIN.

1650. TO RICHARD PRICE1 (L. c.)

Philad. July 29, 1786.

DEAR FRIEND,

I could not let this Opportunity, by M™ Nicklin, pass with-
out saluting you. I hope you continue well, as I do, my old
Malady excepted, and that so useful a Life as yours will be
long protracted. I repeat my Thanks to you for the Pamphlet
you so kindly sent me. I should ere now have try'd the Remedy
indicated in it, but my Glass Instrument for impregnating
Liquors with fix'd Air, being lent into the Country, I have been
kept in continual Expectation of its being return'd, and am
hitherto disappointed ; at which I have been the less uneasy,
as the Pain has been tolerable generally, and I do not find that
the Malady grows worse.

Our Philosophical Society think themselves honour'd by
your Acceptance of their Diploma. You will receive by Mr*
Vaughan a second Volume of their Transactions.

I see there are mischievous Spirits at work, labouring to dis-

1 From auto, draft in L. C. The original letter is in the possession of
Walter Ashburner, Esq., of London. — ED.

VOL. IX— 2 M

530 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1786

turb the Peace between our Countries, but I trust they will
not succeed. We are improving daily in public Prudence
and the true Knowledge of our essential Interests ; and not-
withstanding some political Errors hard to eradicate, I flatter
myself that on the whole and in time we shall do very well :
Indeed I think I see evident Marks of the favourable Hand of
Providence in our Affairs : for even our own Blunders, and
the Malice of our Enemies, are made to operate our Advan-
tage. My best Wishes attend you and good M™ Price, being

ever, my dear Friend

Yours most affectionately

B. FRANKLIN.

1651. TO BENJAMIN VAUGHAN (L. c.)

Philada, July 31, 1786.

DEAR FRIEND,

I recollect, that, when I had the great Pleasure of seeing
you at Southampton, now a i2month since, we had some Con-
versation on the bad Effects of Lead taken inwardly; and
that at your Request I promis'd to send you in writing a par-
ticular Account of several Facts I then mention'd to you, of
which you thought some good use might be made. I now sit
down to fulfil that Promise.

The first Thing I remember of this kind was a general Dis-
course in Boston, when I was a Boy, of a Complaint from
North Carolina against New England Rum, that it poison'd
their People, giving them the Dry Bellyach, with a Loss of the
Use of their Limbs. The Distilleries being examin'd on
the Occasion, it was found that several of them used leaden
Still-heads and Worms, and the Physicians were of Opinion,

1786] TO BENJAMIN VAUGHAN 531

that the Mischief was occasioned by that Use of Lead. The
Legislature of the Massachusetts thereupon pass'd an Act,
prohibiting under severe Penalties the Use of such Still-heads
and Worms thereafter. Inclos'd I send you a Copy of the
Ace*, taken from my printed Law-book.

In 1724, being in London, I went to work in the Printing-
House of Mr. Palmer, Bartholomew Close, as a Compositor.
I there found a Practice, I had never seen before, of drying a
Case of Types (which are wet in Distribution) by placing it
sloping before the Fire. I found this had the additional Ad-
vantage, when the Types were not only dry'd but heated, of
being comfortable to the Hands working over them in cold
weather. I therefore sometimes heated my Case when the
Types did not want drying. But an old Workman, observing
it, advis'd me not to do so, telling me I might lose the Use
of my Hands by it, as two of our Companions had nearly done,
one of whom that us'd to earn his Guinea a Week, could not
then make more than ten Shillings, and the other, who had the
Dangles, but seven and sixpence. This, with a kind of ob-
scure Pain, that I had sometimes felt, as it were in the Bones
of my Hand when working over the Types made very hot,
induced me to omit the Practice. But talking afterwards
with Mr. James, a Letter-founder in the same Close, and ask-
ing him if his People, who work'd over the little Furnaces of
melted Metal, were not subject to that Disorder; he made
light of any danger from the effluvia, but ascribed it to
Particles of the Metal swallow 'd with their Food by slovenly
Workmen, who went to their Meals after handling the Metal,
without well washing their Fingers, so that some of the
metalline Particles were taken off by their Bread and eaten
with it. This appeared to have some Reason in it. But

532 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1786

the Pain I had experienc'd made me still afraid of those
Effluvia.

Being in Derbishire at some of the Furnaces for Smelting
of Lead Ore, I was told, that the Smoke of those Furnaces
was pernicious to the neighbouring Grass and other Vege-
tables ; but I do not recollect to have heard any thing of the
Effect of such Vegetables eaten by Animals. It may be well
to make the Enquiry.

In America I have often observed, that on the Roofs of our
shingled Houses, where Moss is apt to grow in northern Ex-
posures, if there be any thing on the Roof painted with white
Lead, such as Balusters, or Frames of dormant Windows, &c.,
there is constantly a Streak on the Shingles from such Paint
down to the Eaves, on which no Moss will grow, but the wood
remains constantly clean and free from it. We seldom drink
Rain Water that falls on our Houses ; and if we did, perhaps
the small Quantity of Lead, descending from such Paint,
might not be sufficient to produce any sensible ill Effect on our
Bodies. But I have been told of a Case in Europe, I forgot
the Place, where a whole Family was afflicted with what we
call the Dry Bellyach, or Colica Pictonum, by drinking Rain-
Water. It was at a Country-Seat, which, being situated too
high to have the Advantage of a Well, was supply 'd with Water
from a Tank, which received the Water from the leaded Roofs.
This had been drunk several Years without Mischief; but
some young Trees planted near the House growing up above
the Roof, and shedding their Leaves upon it, it was suppos'd
that an Acid in those Leaves had corroded the Lead they cov-
er'd, and furnish'd the Water of that Year with its baneful
Particles and Qualities.

When I was in Paris with Sir John Pringle hi 1767, he

1786] TO MATHEW CAREY 533

visited La Charitt, a Hospital particularly famous for the Cure
of that Malady, and brought from thence a Pamphlet con-
taining a List of the Names of Persons, specifying their Pro-
fessions or Trades, who had been cured there. I had the
Curiosity to examine that List, and found that all the Patients
were of Trades, that, some way or other, use or work in Lead ;
such as Plumbers, Glaziers, Painters, &c., excepting only two
kinds, Stonecutters and Soldiers. These I' could not recon-
cile to my Notion, that Lead was the cause of that Disorder.
But on my mentioning this Difficulty to a Physician of that
Hospital, he inform'd me that the Stonecutters are continually
using melted Lead to fix the Ends of Iron Balustrades in
Stone ; and that the Soldiers had been employ'd by Painters,
as Labourers, in Grinding of Colours.

This, my dear Friend, is all I can at present recollect on the
Subject. You will see by it, that the Opinion of this mischiev-
ous Effect from Lead is at least above Sixty Years old ; and
you will observe with Concern how long a useful Truth may
be known and exist, before it is generally receiv'd and practis'd

on.

I am, ever, yours most affectionately,

B. FRANKLIN.

1652. TO MATHEW CAREY1 (L. c.)

August 10, 86.

SIR : — The Memoirs you mention would be of little or no
Use to your Scheme, as they contain only some Notes of my

1 Mathew Carey had written to Franklin the previous day, August 9, 1786
(A. P. S.), to ask on the behalf of the proprietors of the Columbian Magazine
permission to publish an account of Franklin's life with a likeness of him. — ED.

534 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1786

early Life, and finish in 1730. They were written to my Son,
and intended only as Information to my Family. I have in
hand a full Ace* of my Life which I propose to leave behind
me ; in the meantime I wish nothing of the kind may be pub-
lish'd, and shall be much oblig'd to the Proprietors of the Co-
lumbian Magazine if they will drop that Intention, for the
present. With great Esteem, I am, Sir, your most obed*
Servant, B. FRANKLIN.

1653. TO WILLIAM COCKE1 (L. c.)

Philada, August 12, 1786.

SIR,

I received yesterday the Letter you did me the honour of
writing to me the i5th of June past.2 I had never before
been acquainted, that the Name of your intended New State
had any Relation with my Name, having understood that it
was called FrankLand. It is a very great Honour indeed,
that its Inhabitants have done me, and I should be happy if it
were in my Power to show how sensible I am of it, by some-
thing more essential than my Wishes for their Prosperity.

Having resided some Years past in Europe, and being but
lately arrived thence, I have not had an Opportunity of being
well inform'd of the Points in Dispute between you and the
State of North Carolina. I can therefore only say, that I
think you are perfectly right in resolving to submit them to the

1 William Cocke was a native of Virginia who served in the Virginian
legislature, and later became colonel and brigadier-general of militia in Ten-
nessee. He and William Blount were the first senators from Tennessee
. — ED.

2 In A. P. S. The new state separated from North Carolina was afterwards
named Tennessee. — ED.

1786] TO JEAN-BAPTISTE LE ROY 535

Decision of Congress, and to abide by their Determination.
It is a wise and impartial Tribunal, which can have no sin-
ister Views to warp its Judgment. It is happy for us all, that
we have now in our own Country such a Council to apply to,
for composing our Differences, without being oblig'd, as for-
merly, to carry them across the Ocean to be decided, at an
immense Expence, by a Council which knew little of our
Affairs, would hardly take any Pains to understand them, and
which often treated our Applications with Contempt, and re-
jected them with injurious Language. Let us, therefore,
cherish and respect our own Tribunal ; for the more generally
it is held in high Regard, the more able it will be to answer
effectually the Ends of its Institution, the quieting of our con-
tentions, and thereby promoting and securing our common
Peace and Happiness.

I do not hear any Talk of an Adjournment of Congress,
concerning which you enquire; and I rather think it likely
they may continue to sit out their Year, as it is but lately they
have been able to make a Quorum for Business, which must
therefore probably be in Arrear. If you proceed in your in-
tended Journey, I shall be glad to see you as you pass through
Philadelphia. In the mean time I have the Honour to be,
very respectfully, Sir, your most obedient Servant,

B. FRANKLIN.

1654. TO JEAN-BAPTISTE LE ROY (L. c.)

Philad* Aug* 15. 1786.

DEAR FRIEND,

When I was in France, I was press'd by M. Le Noir, and
M. Cadet, to give a Description of my Stove for burning

536 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1786

Smoke, they conceiving it might be useful to the Citizens of
Paris. I promis'd to do it, but had not time while I staid
there. When at Sea, I wrote that with some other Pieces,
which being read to our Philosophical Society here, are now
printed in their Transactions. — I send you herewith a Copy.
I address'd it to you, wishing that if those publick Spirited
Gentlemen continue in the mind of publishing it, you would
do me the Honour to take care of the Translation. — M.
Cadet has my Plate for it ready engrav'd, which I left with
him. The other two Pieces are, One on the Causes and Cure
of Smoky Chimneys address'd to Dr Ingenhousz our common
Friend, the other containing maritime Observations address'd
to our common Brother. Mr Grand will show them to you
if you desire it : tho' you will receive the Volume (by the first
Ship from this Port,) which contains them all. — There is
a Volume also for the Academy.
I am, ever, my dear Friend,

Yours most affectionately

B. FRANKLIN.
I received a Letter from you

lately which had been very long
in its Passage. I shall write
to you fully per first Ship

1655. TO FERDINAND GRAND (i.e.)

Philad*. AugJ 15. 1786.

DEAR FRIEND,

Having at length been persuaded to build two Houses, this
Year, I wrote to you sometime since requesting you to put
your self in Cash for me by selling my Actions of the Caisse

1786] TO JOHN JAY 537

d'Escompte ; and I have since drawn on you two Bills for
Two hundred and Fifty Pound's Sterling each, dated the 2Qth
and the 3oth of July last, or 28th and 29"*, both Setts in
favour of the same Person Mr Meade Merchant of this City,
and payable in London at 40 Days sight, which I make no
doubt will be duly honoured. I must continue to draw from
time to time as my Buildings go on, and I request you would
keep me advis'd of the Payment that I may continually see
how our Account goes on. I bespoke before I left France
some Printing Letters of Mr Didot, they are for Benjamin.
If ready I request you would pay for them, and ship them for
me by the first convenient Opportunity. I do not know the
Amount. — I wish you to buy for me also the Marquis de
Chastellux's Voyages in America. I am much in Arrear
with my Friends in France on the Score of Correspondence.
But by the first Ship going from hence thither, I will endeav-
our to clear my Accounts. This goes via New York. My
Family continues in good Health, Thanks to God : Those you
knew of us join in best Wishes of Prosperity to you & yours ;
and I am ever, my dear Friend,

Yours most affectionately

B. FRANKLIN.

1656. TO JOHN JAY (L.C.)

Philad', Aug' 24, 1786.

DEAR SIR : — I hear a Treaty is compleated with Portugal.
As soon as it may be made public, you will oblige me much by
favouring me with a Copy of it.

The Monument of General Montgomery, may I ask what

538 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1786

is become of it? It has formerly been said, that Republicks
are naturally ungrateful. The immediate Resolution of Con-
gress for erecting that Monument contradicts that Opinion;
but the letting the Monument lie eight Years unpack'd, if true,
seems rather a Confirmation of it.

On a Review of my Affairs since my Return, I think it
proper to make some Change in the Dispositions of my Will.
Having no other Copy on this Side the Water but that in your
Possession, I wish you to send it to me, which will much oblige,

dear Sir, your most obed* Servant,

B. FRANKLIN.

1657. ON THERMOMETERS

September 13, 1786.

THE two thermometers most generally in use at present,
among the philosophers of Europe, are those of Reaumur and
Fahrenheit. The French use Reaumur's, the English Fahren-
heit's.

In their respective graduations, Reaumur marked his freez-
ing point o, Fahrenheit fixed his at 32 of his degrees above o,
and two of his degrees are just equal to one of Reaumur's.
I know that in some instruments this equality is not exact;
but, in two which I have, the one Reaumur's, made by Cappy
in Paris, the other Fahrenheit's, by Nairne, London, it is
precisely so, they hanging together in the same room. And
those workmen are famed for their exactness.

In reading, one frequently finds degrees of heat and cold
mentioned, as measured by one or the other of those thermome-
ters, and one is at a loss to reduce that least known to the
other.

I ;86] TO MRS. JANE MECOM 539

Rule.

Suppose the degree mentioned is 25 of Reaumur, which is
25 degrees above o, or its freezing point, and you would know
to what degree of Fahrenheit that answers;

Double the 25, which will give you 50 of Fahrenheit's, and
to them add 32, his number at the freezing point, and you will
have 82, the degree of Fahrenheit's equal to 25 of Re'aumur.

On the contrary, if you would reduce Fahrenheit to Re'au-
mur, first subtract 32, and then take half of the remainder;
thus taking 32 from 82, there remains 50, and the half of 50
is 25.

This answers in all cases where the degree is above the
freezing point.

If below, double the degrees of Re'aumur, and subtract
them from the 32 of Fahrenheit, which will give you the
equivalent degree of his scale. Thus, suppose it 5 below o,
or the freezing point of Re'aumur; twice 5 is 10, which de-
ducted from 32, Fahrenheit's freezing point, gives you 22 as
the equivalent degree of his thermometer.

And halving the degrees of Fahrenheit that are less than
32, you have the degree of Re'aumur. Thus 22 of Fahrenheit
being 10 degrees less than 32, the half of 10 is 5, the equivalent
degree of Re'aumur. B. FRANKLIN.

1658. TO MRS. JANE MECOM (L. c.)

Philad* Sept. 21, 1786.

MY DEAR SISTER : — I received your kind Letter of the 25th
past, by our Cousin Williams, who, besides, informs me of
your Welfare, which gives me great Pleasure.

540 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1786

Your Grandson having finished all the Business I had to
employ him in, set out for Boston a few Days before Cousin
Williams arrived. I suppose he may be with you before this
time.

I had begun to build two good Houses next the Street, in-
stead of three old Ones which I pulPd down, but my Neigh-
bour disputing my Bounds, I have been obliged to postpone
till that Dispute is settled by Law. In the meantime, the
Workmen, and Materials being ready, I have ordered an
Addition to the House I live in, it being too small for our grow-
ing Family. There are a good many Hands employ'd, and
I hope to see it cover'd in before Winter. I propose to have
in it a long Room for my Library and Instruments, with two
good Bedchambers and two Garrets. The Library is to be
even with the Floor of my best old Chamber ; and the Story
under it will for the present be employ'd only to hold Wood,
but may be made into Rooms hereafter. This Addition is
on the Side next the River. I hardly know how to justify
building a library at an Age that will so soon oblige me to quit
it ; but we are apt to forget that we are grown old, and Build-
ing is an Amusement.

I think you will do well to instruct your Grandson in the Art
of making that Soap. It may be of use to him, and 'tis pity
it should be lost.

Some knowing Ones here hi Matters of Weather predict a
hard Winter. Permit me to have the Pleasure of helping to
keep you warm. Lay in a good Stock of Firewood, and draw
upon me for the Amount. Your Bill shall be paid upon Sight
by your affectionate Brother,

B. FRANKLIN.

1786] TO MLLE. LE RAY DE CHAUMONT 541

1659. TO MLLE. LE RAY DE CHAUMONT

(L.C.)
Philadelphia ce 7 Octob" 1786.

MA CHERE FEMME,

Dans cette eloignement de mes Amis cle France, je trouve
quelque Consolation en parcourant leurs Epitres amicales,
quoique anciennes. Ce jour-ci j'ai relu avec nouveau Plaisir
la votre (sans datte) dans laquelle vous me faites des Instances
la plus obligeantes de retourner habiter mon ancienne
chambre. Cela me fait souvenir comme j'y a vecu heureuse-
ment tant d'ann^es, jouissant de votre Amitfe* & de ce de
toute la chere Famille. Ces jours helas ! sont passers, pour
ne revenir jamais. Et comme je suis deja dans 1'autre monde,
vous etes libre de prendre un meilleur Man, que je vous sou-
haite de tout mon cceur. Mons. votre Frere a 1'envie de nous
priver d'une des nos meilleurs Filles pour en faire sa Femme
et Pamener en France ; il faut qu'en justice il doit nous en-
voyer une de ses Sceurs pour nous de dommager: Le sera
encore mieux si vous venez tous ensemble vous etablir dans ce
bon pays. Je serai ravi de vous embrasser tous, le bon Pere,
le bonne Mere, & tous les bonnes enfans, sans omettre aucun,
— les marines.

Quant a la Demoiselle ci-dessus mentionne', c'est une tres
aimable Fille, & d'une des premieres Families de ce Pays.
Elle a une Caractere excellente, & elle vous fera une bonne
Soeur. Comme vous aimer votre cher Frere, vous feres bien
de disposer, autant que vous pouvez, ses Parens a lui dormer
leur Consentement.

Adieu, ma tres chere Amie, & me croyez toujours la votre :

B. F.

542 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1786

P. S. Vous me demandez si j'ai pay£ M. Leleu pour les
Bougies. Je trouve parmis mes papiers son Memoire pour
25 livres Bougies a 58 sols — 72-1-4-10. J'en avoit parti£
& sur la Memoire est la de'charge de ma part que j'ai paye*
a M. notre Pere: 22 May 85.

tres mauvais francois, n'est ce pas?

1660. TO DONATIEN LE RAY DE CHAUMONT

(L. C.)
Philad*, October 7, 1786.

DEAR FRIEND : — I have just been writing a French Letter
to Mademoiselle Chaumont; but it costs me too much time
to write in that Language, and after all 'tis very bad French,
and I therefore write to you in English, which I think you will
as easily understand ; if not, ma chere amie Sophie, can inter-
pret it for you.

Some of our Letters are long on the Way. The one you
were so kind as to write me the 24th of September, '85, l
did not come to hand till the Beginning of June '86, and lately
M. Le Caze tells me that he had a Packet from you to me, but
that he unfortunately left it at L 'Orient, and it is not yet
arriv'd.

If you have made any further Experiments in whitening
the green vegetable Wax, I shall be glad to hear what Suc-
cess you have met with.

I have frequently the Pleasure of seeing your valuable
Son, whom I love as my own. He has communicated to me
his Inclination to marry a young Lady of this Country,2

1 In A. P. S. — ED. 2 Miss Coxe of New Jersey. — ED.

I786] TO CHARLES PETTIT 543

and that he has written to you for your and his Mother's
Consent. I wish his Happiness, and I believe he will find it
in the Choice he has made, if you approve of it : for the Lady
bears an excellent Character, and is one of the first Families
in this Country.

Please to present my affectionate Respects to Madam de
Chaumont, and my Love to all your Children.

With great Esteem and Affection, I am, my dear Friend,
yours most sincerely,

My Grandsons present their Respects and best Wishes.

B. FRANKLIN.

1661. TO CHARLES PETTIT1 (L. c.)

PhilacK Oct. 10. 1786

SIR,

I received the Letter you did me the Honour of writing to
me the 30th past. The Major Judd you mention has not been
here, unless a Person who came to me one Evening to enquire
where Franklin & Jenkins lodged, was the Man. He ap-
peared as a Traveller just alighted from his Horse, seemed in
great Hurry and Trepidation, anxious to find them imme-
diately, but told me nothing of his Business. I could not give
him the Information he wanted, and he went from me to Mr
Pelatiah Webster, who acquainted him they were gone home,
and he then enquired the Road to Wyoming that he might
follow them. M* Webster came to me a Day or two after,
and brought me the enclos'd Paper, a kind of Manifesto, of
which he said that Person had a Number of Copies and had

1 Charles Pettit (1736-1806), a Philadelphia merchant, and delegate to
Congress (1785-1787). — ED.

544 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1786

left this with him ; but was not farther communicative. It is
remarkable that it is signed by Franklin and Jenkins at Wyo-
ming the 12th of September, when they were here attending
the Assembly, had been here sometime before and continu'd
here for some time after, that Date. The Vice President to
whom I communicated it, thinks it manufactur'd in this Town :
I rather suspect it a Manceure of Allen's. — Perhaps you
may learn whether it was really printed [at] Hudson. I have
heard there is one Hamilton there, who busy's himself much
in the Wyoming Affairs.

I read to the Council your Letter as far it concern 'd those
Affairs and the Recommendation of Judd's Son as Prothono-
tary for the new County. It appear'd to be the general Senti-
ment that too little was known of him, and that he was proba-
bly too young. The Choice nearly unanimous fell upon Col.
Pickering, who it is hoped, as he is himself a Connecticut
Man may be a means of conciliating Matters in that hitherto
unhappy Country.

With regard to the Spanish Treaty I am not sufficiently
inform'd of the Particulars upon which Advice can be clearly
founded. I do not know what Advantages Spain proposes
as an Equivalent for our agreeing to the Restraint, which she
does not already allow to all other Nations. I think indeed,
that the Use of the River for ascending with Ships is worth
very little, being naturally impracticable to any Advantage,
from the Time it requires & the Labour, but for descending,
it is of great Importance to all our Country beyond the Moun-
tains; not indeed so much at present, till the Settlers have
spare Produce for Exportation ; but the Prospect, and that not
very distant, of having that Outlet free and open, encourages
the Settlement, which a Restraint would discourage. I

1786] TO CHARLES BIDDLE 545

should therefore rather advise Procrastination, and drawing
the Treaty out into length, by making new or varying old
Propositions which would require sending to Spain for fresh
Instructions, and which from the natural Slowness of that
Court would be long before they came : for Time may pro-
duce a new King with new Ideas, or new Ministers with differ-
ent Views, while we are daily growing stronger and more in a
Condition of giving Weight to our Claims. And after all
I should rather be for buying them out of the Country en-
tirely by a fair Treaty of Purchase for some valuable Con-
sideration, than to think of driving them out by Force, being
almost sure it would be cheaper as well as honester. Per-
haps it might not be amiss to set on foot such a Treaty imme-
diately. A Guarantee of their other Possessions in America
might have Weight in it. With great Esteem, I have the
honour to be,

Sir,

Your most obedient

& most humble Servant

B. FRANKLIN.

1662. TO CHARLES BIDDLE1 (A. P. s.)

Thursday, Nov. 2, '86.

SIR,

The Report you mention that your Conduct had been dis-
approved and complain'd of by me, is an infamous Fals-
hood. You have always appear'd to me an excellent Officer,
well understanding the Duties of your Station, and indefati-

1 Vice-President of Pennsylvania, father of Nicholas Biddle, President of
the United States Bank. — ED.
VOL. ix — 2 N

546 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1786

gably active in the Performance of those Duties. I give
you this Testimonial with great Pleasure, being with sincere
& great Esteem, Sir,

Your most obed1 Serv1

B. FRANKLIN.

1663. TO ABBE DE LA ROCHE (L. c.)

Philada, Nov. 20, 1786.

DEAR SIR,

I hope soon to be in a Situation when I can write largely
and fully to my Friends in France, without the perpetual
Interruptions I now daily meet with. At present I can only
tell you that I am well,

and that I esteem you,
and P Abte Morellet,

and M. Cabanis,

infinitely

and love dear Mme.
Helv^tius,

Adieu. Yours most affectionately,

B. FRANKLIN.

I receiv'd several Productions of the Academy at Auteuil,1
which gave me great Pleasure.

1 A humorous allusion to the literary diversions of the merry guests of
Madame Helvetius. — ED.

I786] TO WILLIAM HUNTER 547

1664. TO WILLIAM HUNTER1

Philadelphia, Nov. 24, 1786.
MY DEAR OLD FRIEND,

It rejoiced me much to learn by your kind letter of Febru-
ary last, which I received about ten days since, that you are
still in the land of the living, and that you are still at Bath, the
very place that I think gives you the best chance of passing the
evening of life agreeably. I too am got into my niche, after
being kept out of it 24 years by foreign employments. It is
a very good house that I built so long ago to retire into, with-
out being able till now to enjoy it. I am again surrounded
by my friends, with a fine family of grandchildren about my
knees, and an affectionate good daughter and son-in-law
to take care of me. And, after fifty years' public service, I
have the pleasure to find the esteem of my country with
regard to me undiminished ; the late reelection of me to the
presidentship, notwithstanding the different parties we are split
into, being absolutely unanimous. This I tell you, not merely
to indulge my own vanity, but because I know you love me,
and will be pleased to hear of whatever happens that is agree-
able to your friend.

I find Mr. Anstey,2 whom you recommend to me, a very
agreeable, sensible man, and shall render him any service that
may lie in my power. I thank you for the " New Bath Guide." 8

1 From "The Private Correspondence of Benjamin Franklin" ,
Vol. I, p. 211. — ED.

2 Mr. Anstey was a commissioner sent over by the British government to-
settle the affairs of the refugees in America. — S.

8 A famous series of letters in rhyme entitled the " New Bath Guide, or
Memoirs of the B-r-d [Blunderhead] Family, in a series of Poetical Epistles,"
by Christopher Anstey (1724-1805). — ED.

548 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1786

I had read it formerly, but it has afforded me fresh pleas-
ure.

Your newspapers, to please honest John Bull, paint our
situation here in frightful colours, as if we were very miser-
able since we broke our connexion with him. But I will give
you some remarks by which you may form your own judg-
ment. Our husbandmen, who are the bulk of the nation,
have had plentiful crops, their produce sells at high prices
and for ready, hard money; wheat, for instance, at 8 s., and
8 s. 6 d. per bushel. Our working-people are all employed and
get high wages, are well fed and well clad. Our estates in
houses are trebled in value by the rising of rents since the
Revolution. Buildings in Philadelphia increase amazingly,
besides small towns rising in every quarter of the country.
The laws govern, justice is well administered, and property
as secure as in any country on the globe. Our wilderness
lands are daily buying up by new settlers, and our settlements
extend rapidly to the westward. European goods were never
so cheaply afforded us, as since Britain has no longer the
monopoly of supplying us. In short, all among us may be
happy, who have happy dispositions; such being necessary
to happiness even in Paradise.

I speak these things of Pennsylvania, with which I am
most acquainted. As to the other States, when I read in
all the papers of the extravagant rejoicings every 4th of
July, the day on which was signed the Declaration of
Independence, I am convinced, that none of them are
discontented with the Revolution. Adieu, my dear friend,
and believe me ever, with sincere esteem and affection,
yours most truly,

B. FRANKLIN.

1 786] TO 549

1665. TO THOMAS WIGHT, JR.1 (L. c.)

Philad«, Nov. 25. 1786.

SIR : — I received your Letter dated the 3d of September
last,2 enquiring after John Tyler.8 He is living and in good
health, and was here with me a few Days since, but is I be-
lieve gone back into the Country where he resides ; his Com-
ing to Town being to apply to Government for some Arrears
due to him as Armourer to the Troops during the late War.
I am glad to hear that Mr. and Mrs. Salt are still in the Land
of the Living. My Respects and best Wishes attend them.
I shall acquaint Mr. Tyler with what you have mentioned to
me of something being left him, and am, sir, your humble
Servant, B. FRANKLIN.

1666. TO - (L. c.)

Nov. 25, 1786.

DEAR SIR : — I hope your Gout will be of Service to you, as
I have always found mine has been to me. I return the Piece.
And since you seem to wish for my Advice, tho' without ask-
ing it, I will give it. Do not publish the Piece immediately.
Let it lie by you at least a Twelvemonth, then reconsider it,
and do what you find proper. Such personal public Attacks
are never forgiven. You both have Children, and the Ani-

1 A brandy merchant of Birmingham. — ED.

a In A. P. S.- ED.

8 A citizen of Birmingham who had gone to America upon advice and
direction of Franklin. Mr. Wight wrote that a certain Mrs. Glover who died
on the 22d of July had left some property to the said John Tyler. — ED.

550 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1786

mosity may be entail'd to the Prejudice of both sides. With
great Esteem and Affection, I am ever yours,

B. FRANKLIN.

1667. TO EDWARD BANCROFT (L. c.)

Philad», Nov. 26, 1786.

DEAR SIR,

1 received your kind Letter of September 5,* informing me
of the intention Mr. Dilly has of printing a new Edition of
my Writings,2 and of his Desire, that I would furnish him with
such Additions as I may think proper. At present all my
Papers and Manuscripts are so mixt with other things, by the
Confusions occasioned in sudden and various Removals dur-
ing the late Troubles, that I can hardly find any thing. But,
having nearly finished an Addition to my House, which will
afford me Room to put all in Order, I hope soon to be able to
comply with such a Request ; but I hope Mr. Dilly will have
a good Understanding in the Affair with Henry and Johnson,
who, having risqu'd the former Impressions, may suppose they
thereby acquired some Right in the Copy. As to the Life
propos'd to be written, if it be by the same hand who furnish'd
a Sketch to Dr. Lettsom, which he sent me, I am afraid it
will be found too full of Errors for either you or me to correct :
And having been persuaded by my Friends, Messrs. Benja
Vaughan, M. Le Veillard, Mr. James of this Place, and some
others, that such a Life, written by myself, may be useful to

Un A. P. S. — ED.

2 " Philosophical and Miscellaneous Papers. Lately Written by B. Frank-
lin, LL.D. London; Printed for C. Dilly in the Poultry, 1787." Charles
Dilly (1739-1807) was the publisher of "Tour to the Hebrides" and
the first edition of Boswell's " Life of Johnson " . — ED.

1786] CAPTAIN THOMAS DE UGARTA Y LIANES 551

the rising Generation, I have made some Progress in it, and
hope to finish it this Winter ; so I cannot but wish that Project
of Mr. Dilly's Biographer may be laid aside. I am neverthe-
less thankful to you for your Friendly Offer of correcting it.1
As to Public Affairs, it is long since I gave over all Expec-
tations of a Commercial Treaty between us and Britain;
and I think we can do as well, or better, without one than she
can. Our Harvests are plenty, our Produce fetches a high
Price in hard Money, and there is in every Part of our Country
incontestible Marks of public Felicity. We discover, indeed,
some Errors hi our general and particular Constitutions;
which it is no Wonder they should have, the time in which
they were formed being considered. But these we shall mend.
The little Disorders you have heard of in some of the States,
rais'd by a few wrong Heads, are subsiding, and will probably
soon be extinguish'd. My best Wishes, and those of my Fam-
ily, attend you. We shall be happy to see you here, when it
suits you to visit us ; being with sincere and great Esteem,
my dear Friend, yours most affectionately,

B. FRANKLIN.

1668. TO CAPTAIN THOMAS DE UGARTA

Y LIANES2 (L.C.)

Philad', Dec. 16. 1786.

HONOURABLE SIR : — The Council having received In-
formation that the Ship under your Command lies in a dan-
gerous Situation, expos'd to be much injur'd, if not destroy 'd,

1 The biography was omitted. — ED.

a Captain of a Spanish frigate lying at Marcus Hook. — ED.

552 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1786

by the Violence of the driving Ice, have thought that not only
the Duty of Hospitality towards Strangers in our Port, but
the just Regard due from us to the excellent Prince, your
Sovereign, and the good Friend of these States, required of us
to afford every Assistance in our Power for her Preservation.
And apprehending that possibly your People, accustom 'd
to warmer Climates, may not be so well acquainted with the
Force and mischievous Effects of Ice, and the Methods of
guarding against it, we send to you two of the Wardens of the
Port, Men of Experience and Knowledge in such Matters,
on whose Advice you may rely, and who have Authority to ob-
tain such Aid from the Inhabitants, if any should be wanted,
as may enable them to put her in a Position of the greatest
possible Safety.

Wishing you every kind of Prosperity, I have the honour to
be, Honble Sir, your most obedient and most humble Serv*,

B. FRANKLIN.

1669. TO CAPTAIN NATHANIEL FALCONER (L. c.)

Philad<S Dec. 16. 1786.

GENTLEMEN: — When you arrive at Marcus Hook you
will deliver the Letter to the Captain of the Spanish Man-of-
War, and having view'd the Situation of the Ship and the
Piers, you will respectfully offer him your Opinion and Advice
on the best Means of securing her from Damage by the driv-
ing Ice, in Writing if he desires it, and afford every Assistance
you can procure, for the Expence of which (if he does not pay
it), you will be indemnify 'd here.

If you find the Piers likely to be damag'd in case of his

1787] TO CHARLES THOMSON 553

Refusal to follow your Council, you will likely represent that
to him in Writing, to be made use of hereafter in support of a
Complaint to his Court and Demand of Satisfaction, if such
a Step should be thought proper. And you will take such
prudent Steps as shall occur to you for preventing as far as
possible, or lessening such Damage.

You will also inquire into the Truth of the Reports of In-
juries done by his People to the Inhabitants, and if you find
them true, acquaint him with them, expressing at the same
time your Persuasion that he will take Measures to prevent
such Injuries for the future.

With sincere Regard, I am, Gentlemen, your humble Serv1,

B. FRANKLIN.

1670. TO CHARLES THOMSON1 (L. c.)

Philadelphia, January 25, 1787.

DEAR FRIEND,

You may remember, that in the correspondence between us
in June last, on the Subject of a Million jree gi]t of the King
of France, acknowledged in our contract to have been re-
ceived, but which did not appear to be accounted for in our
Banker's accounts, unless it should be the same with the
million said to be received from the Farmers- General, I men-
tioned, that an explanation might doubtless be easily ob-
tained by writing to Mr. Grand, or Mr. Jefferson. I know
not whether you have accordingly written to either of them ;
but, being desirous that the matter should be speedily cleared
up, I wrote myself to Mr. Grand a letter upon it, of which I
now enclose a Copy, with his answers, and several letters

1 From the Jefferson Papers (L. C.), in the hand of a secretary. — ED.

554 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1787

from M. Durival, who is Che] du Bureau des Fonds (and has
under his care la Finance) des Affaires Etr anger es.

You will see by these letters that the million in question
was delivered to somebody on the loth of June 1776, but it
does not appear to whom. It is clear that it could not be to
Mr. Grand nor to the Commissioners from Congress; for
we did not meet in France till the end of December 1776, or
beginning of January 1777, and that Banker was not charged
before with our affairs.

By the Minister's [reserve] in refusing him a Copy of the
Receipt, I conjecture it must be money advanced for our use
to M. de Beaumarchais, and that it is a mystere du cabinet,
which perhaps should not be further enquired into, unless
necessary to guard against more demands than may be just
from that agent : For it may well be supposed, that, if the
Court furnished him with the means of supplying us, they
may not be willing to furnish authentic proofs of such a trans-
action so early in our dispute with Britain. Pray tell me,
has he dropped his demands, or does he still continue to
worry you with them ?

I should like to have these original letters returned to me,
but you may, if you please, keep Copies of them. It is true
the million in question makes no difference in your accounts
with the King of France, it not being mentioned or charged,
as so much lent and to be repaid, but stated as freely given.
Yet if it was put into the Hands of any of your Agents, or
Ministers, they ought certainly to account for it. I do not
recollect whether Mr. Deane had arrived in France before
the loth of June, 1776; * but from his great want of money,
when I joined him a few months after, I hardly think it could

1 Deane did not arrive in Paris till the first week in July. — ED.

1787] TO ALEXANDER SMALL 555

have been paid him. Possibly Mr. Jefferson may obtain the
information, tho' Mr. Grand could not, and I wish he may
be directed to make the enquiry, as I know he would do it
directly [discreetly?]; I mean if by Hortalez and Co.'s fur-
ther demands, or for any other reason, such an enquiry

should be thought necessary.1 I am, &c.

B. FRANKLIN.

1671. TO ALEXANDER SMALL (L. c.)

Philad*, Feb. 19, 1787.
DEAR FRIEND,

I received your Favour of June last,2 and thank you for
the kind Congratulations contain'd in it. What you have
heard of my Malady is true, "that it does not grow worse."
Thanks to God, I still enjoy Pleasure in the Society of my
Friends and Books, and much more in the Prosperity of my
Country, concerning which your People are continually
deceiving themselves.

I am glad the Improvement of the Book of Common Prayer8
has met with your Approbation, and that of good Mrs. Bald-

1 This matter was not cleared up till 1794, when Gouverneur Morris was
American Minister in Paris. By application to the government he procured
a copy of the receipt, which had been given by the person who received the
million of livres on the loth of June, 1776. It proved to be Beaumarchais, as
Dr. Franklin had conjectured. See Sparks's " Life of Gouverneur Morris,"
Vol. II, p. 446.

While the correspondence with the banker in Paris was going on, Dr.
Franklin's enemies in Congress made themselves busy in propagating a report
that he was a defaulter to the amount of one million of livres, and thus gave
currency to a most unjust and injurious suspicion against him throughout the
country. — S.

2 June 6, 1786, in A. P. S.— ED.

• See the letter to Granville Sharp, July 5, 1785. — ED.

556 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1787

win. It is not yet, that I know of, received in public Practice
anywhere ; but, as it is said that Good Motions never die,
perhaps in time it may be found useful.

I read with Pleasure the Account you gave of the flourish-
ing State of your Commerce and Manufactures, and of the
Plenty you have of Resources to carry the Nation thro' all
its Difficulties. You have one of the finest Countries in the
World, and, if you can be cur'd of the Folly of making War for
Trade, (in which Wars more has been always expended than
the Profits of any Trade can compensate,) you may make
it one of the happiest. Make the best of your own natural
Advantages, instead of endeavouring to diminish those of
other Nations, and there is no doubt but that you may yet
prosper and flourish. Your beginning to consider France no
longer as a natural Enemy, is a Mark of Progress in the Good
Sense of the Nation, of which Posterity will find the Benefit,
in the Rarity of Wars, the Diminution of Taxes, and Increase
of Riches.

As to the Refugees, whom you think we were so impolitic
in rejecting, I do not find that they are miss'd here, or that
anybody regrets their Absence. And certainly they must be
happier where they are, under the Government they admire ;
and be better receiv'd among a People, whose Cause they
espous'd and fought for, than among those who cannot so soon
have forgotten the Destruction of their Habitations, and the
spilt Blood of their dearest Friends and near Relations.

I often think with great Pleasure on the happy Days I
pass'd in England with my and your learned and ingenious
Friends, who have left us to join the Majority in the World of
Spirits. Every one of them now knows more than all of us
they have left behind. It is to me a comfortable Reflection,

1787] TO NEVIL MASKELYNE 557

that, since we must live for ever in a future State, there is a
sufficient Stock of Amusement in reserve for us, to be found in
constantly learning something new to Eternity, the present
Quantity of human Ignorance infinitely exceeding that of
human Knowledge. Adieu, my dear Friend, and believe
me, in whatever World, yours most affectionately,

B. FRANKLIN,
in his 82* year.

1672. TO NEVIL MASKELYNE1

Philadelphia, March 29, 1787.
REVEREND AND DEAR SIR,

The writer of the enclosed paper concerning the variation
of the compass, and the important use which he supposes may
be made of that variation, not being satisfied with the judg-
ment of some of our principal mathematicians here, has ear-
nestly desired me to communicate it to some of my learned
friends in Europe.2 I know no one better acquainted with
the subject than yourself, and, as I cannot refuse complying
with his request, I beg you will excuse my giving you this
trouble, and favour me with a line expressing your opinion ;
which condescension will very much oblige, Sir, your most
obedient servant,

B. FRANKLIN.

1 First printed by Sparks. — ED.

a The writer here alluded to was John Churchman, who published a work,
entitled " The Magnetic Atlas," in which he advanced a new theory of the varia-
tion of the compass. — ED.

558 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1787

1673. TO M. LE VEILLARD1

Philadelphia, April 15, 1787.

I HAVE received a number of letters from you, which gave
me great pleasure, though I have not regularly answered.
When you shall consider the situation of a man who had been
many years absent from home, the multiplicity of private
affairs he must consequently have to settle, the public business
of a great government to be attended to, and this under the
frequent teasing of a painful disease, you will probably make
some charitable allowance for his delay in writing to his
friends, and not charge it all as the effect of forgetfulness and
want of affection.

I now have all your letters of the last year before me, and
shall go through them in order. That of March 25th, an-
nounced a M. de la Villele, nephew of the late Madame de
la Fre*te*, as intending a voyage hither, but he has not yet ap-
peared in these parts. If he arrives while I live, he will be
paid every attention and civility in my power to show him.

I thank you for the trouble you have taken in selling my
forte piano and dividing the money as I desired.

The Lodge of the Nine Sisters have done me too much
honour in proposing the prize you mention.2

1 In reply to a letter dated June I, 1786, in A. P. S. Printed from "The
Private Correspondence of Benjamin Franklin" , Vol. I, p. 214.— ED.

2 M. le Veillard wrote to Franklin April 2, 1786 (A. P. S.), that he had
sold his pianoforte for twelve Louis, and that the Lodge of the Nine Sisters
(the Muses) had announced a prize of six hundred francs for a eulogy of
Franklin. — ED.

1787] TO M. LE VEILLARD 559

As to the little history I promised you, my purpose still
continues of completing it, and I hoped to do it this summer,
having built an addition to my house, in which I have placed
my library, and where I can write without being disturbed by
the noise of the children, but the General Assembly having
lately desired my assistance in a great convention to be held
here in May next for amending the Federal Constitution, I
begin to doubt whether I can make any progress in it till that
business is over.

Yours of the 23rd of May did not arrive here till the 5th of
October, and this is not the only instance of the long time
letters are delayed in your seaports. It is true that we had,
as you mention, two parties in this State — one for preserving
the Constitution as it is, and the other for adding an Upper
House as a check to the Assembly. But having tried it
seven years, the strongest party was for continuing it, and
since my arrival no obstruction has happened in public busi-
ness, such as you had been informed of, by the seceding of one
party from the Assembly. Having served one year as Presi-
dent of Council, I had not resolution enough to refuse serv-
ing another, and was again chosen in November last, without
a single dissenting voice but my own. By our laws one cannot
serve more than three years, but I think I shall decline the
third.

I am quite of your opinion that our independence is not
quite complete till we have discharged our public debt. This
State is not behindhand in its proportion, and those who are
in arrear are actually employed in contriving means to dis-
charge their respective balances, but they are not all equally
diligent in business, nor equally successful; the whole will,
however, be paid, I am persuaded, in a few years.

560 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1787

The English have not yet delivered up the posts on our
frontier, agreeable to treaty; the pretence is that our mer-
chants have not paid their debts. I was a little provoked
when I first heard this, and I wrote some remarks upon it
which I send you.1 They have been written near a year,
but I have not yet published them, being unwilling to encour-
age any of our people who may be able to pay in their neglect
of that duty. This paper, therefore, is only for your amuse-
ment and that of our excellent friend, the Duke de la Roche-
foucauld.2

You blame me for writing three pamphlets and neglecting
to write the little history; you should consider they were
written at sea, out of my own head ; the other could not so
well be written there for want of the documents that could
only be had here.

As to my malady, concerning which you so kindly inquire,
I have never had the least doubt of its being the stone. I am
sensible that it is grown heavier ; but on the whole it does not
give me more pain than when at Passy, and except in standing,
walking, or making water, I am very little incommoded by it.
Sitting or lying in bed I am generally quite easy, God be
thanked ; and as I live temperately, drink no wine, and use
daily the exercise of the dumb-bell, I flatter myself that the
stone is kept from augmenting so much as it might otherwise
do, and that I may still continue to find it tolerable. People
who live long, who will drink of the cup of life to the very
bottom, must expect to meet with some of the usual dregs,
and when I reflect on the number of terrible maladies human

1 See " The Retort Courteous." — ED.

2 The following was written in the margin : —

" This omitted at present for want of time to copy it." — B.

1787] TO M. LE VEILLARD 561

nature is subject to, I think myself favoured in having to my
share only the stone and the gout.

In yours of August 2ist, you mention your having written
the 2ist and 2Qth of June, which letters were in a paquet,
with one from the Duke de la Rochefoucauld, two from M.
and Mad. Brillon, etc. I have not been so happy as to re-
ceive these letters ; they never came to hand.

You were right in conjecturing that I wrote the remarks
on the "Thoughts concerning Executive Justice." I have no
copy of those remarks at hand, and forget how the saying
was introduced that it was better one thousand guilty persons
should escape than one innocent suffer. Your criticisms
thereon appear to be just, and I imagine you may have mis-
apprehended my intention in mentioning it. I always
thought, with you, that the prejudice in Europe which sup-
poses a family dishonoured by the punishment of one of its
members was very absurd, it being, on the contrary, my
opinion that a rogue hanged out of a family does it more
honour than ten that live in it.

What you mention of our paper money, if you mean that
of this State, Pennsylvania, is not well understood. It was
made before my arrival, and not being a legal tender can do no
injustice to anybody, nor does any one here complain of it,
though many are justly averse to an increase of the quantity
at this time, there being a'great deal of real money in the coun-
try, and one bank in good credit. I have myself purchased
ten ACTIONS in it, which, at least, shows my good opinion of it.

Besides the addition to my house, mentioned above, I
have been building two new houses on my front, next the street.
They are of brick, and each twenty-four feet wide by forty-
five deep, and three stories high. The affairs in dealing with

VOL. IX — 2O

$6z THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1787

so many workmen and furnishers of materials, such as brick-
layers, carpenters, stone-cutters, painters, glaziers, lime-
burners, timber-merchants, copper-smiths, carters, labourers,
etc., etc., have added not a little to the fatiguing business I
have gone through in the last year, as mentioned above, and
strengthen in some degree my apology for being so bad a
correspondent.

Mr. Brabanzon has requested me to send him some seeds
in time to plant this spring, but his letter came to hand too
late. They will be got the ensuing autumn and sent, so as
to be ready for planting next year.

Temple and Benjamin will write to you. This letter
goes by Mr. Paine, one of our principal writers at the Revolu-
tion, being the author of "Common Sense" a pamphlet that
had prodigious effects.

He does not speak French, or I should recommend him to
your civilities, as I do to those of our friend, the good Duke.

The last letter I have had the pleasure of receiving from
you is that of Nov. 19, 1786. I cannot give you a better idea
of my present happiness in my family than in telling you that
my daughter has all the virtues of a certain good lady that you
allow me to love ; the same tender affections and intentions,
ingenuity, industry, economy, etc., etc., etc. Embrace that
good dame for me warmly, and the amiable daughter. My
best wishes attend the whole family, whom I shall never cease
to love while I am

B. FRANKLIN.

1787] TO THE DUKE DE LA ROCHEFOUCAULD 563

1674. TO THE DUKE DE LA ROCHEFOUCAULD >

Philadelphia, April 15, 1787.

I HAVE been happy in receiving three very kind letters from
my greatly respected and esteemed friend, since my being in
America. They are dated November 3oth, 1785, February
8th, 1786, and January i4th, I787.2 In mine of this date to
M. le Veillard, I have made the best apology I could for my
being so bad a correspondent. I will not trouble you with a
repetition of it, as I know you often see him. I will only con-
fess my fault, and trust to your candour and goodness for
my pardon.

Your friendly congratulations on my arrival and reception
here were very obliging. The latter was, as you have heard,
extremely flattering. The two parties in the Assembly and
Council, the constitutionists and anti-constitutionists, joined
in requesting my service as counsellor, and afterwards in
electing me as President. Of seventy-four members in Coun-
cil and Assembly, who voted by ballot, there was in my first
election but one negative, besides my own; and in the sec-
ond, after a year's service, only my own. And I experience,
from all the principal people in the government, every atten-
tion and assistance that can be desired towards making the
task as little burdensome to me as possible. So I am going
on very comfortably hitherto with my second year, and I do
not at present see any likelihood of a change ; but future events
are always uncertain, being governed by Providence or sub-

1 From "The Private Correspondence of Benjamin Franklin " , Vol.
I, p. 216. — ED.

* All but January 14, 1787, are in A. P. S.— ED.

564 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1787

ject to chances ; and popular favour is very precarious, being
sometimes lost as well as gained by good actions ; so I do not
depend on a continuance of my present happiness, and there-
fore shall not be surprised, if, before my time of service ex-
pires, something should happen to diminish it.

These States in general enjoy peace and plenty. There
have been some disorders in the Massachusetts and Rhode
Island governments ; those in the former are quelled for the
present ; those of the latter, being contentions for and against
paper money, will probably continue some time. Maryland
too is divided on the same subject, the Assembly being for it,
and the Senate against it. Each is now employed in endeav-
ouring to gain the people to its party against the next elec-
tions, and it is probable the Assembly may prevail. Paper
money in moderate quantities has been found beneficial;
when more than the occasions of commerce require, it
depreciated and was mischievous; and the populace are
apt to demand more than is necessary. In this State we have
some, and it is useful, and I do not hear any clamour for more.

There seems to be but little thought at present in the par-
ticular States, of mending their particular constitutions;
but the grand Federal Constitution1 is generally blamed as
not having given sufficient powers to Congress, the federal
head. A convention is therefore appointed to revise that
constitution, and propose a better. You will see by the en-
closed paper, that your friend is to be one in that business,
though he doubts his malady may not permit his giving
constant attendance. I am glad to see, that you are named
as one of a General Assembly to be convened in France.
I flatter myself, that great good may accrue to that dear

1 The Old Confederation. — ED.

1787] TO THE DUKE DE LA ROCHEFOUCAULD 565

nation from the deliberations of such an assembly. I pray
God to give it his blessing.

I sympathize with you and the family most sincerely, in the
great loss sustained by the decease of that excellent woman.1
It must be indeed a heavy one. My best wishes attend those
that remain, and that the happiness of your sweet domestic
society may long continue without such another interruption.

I send herewith a volume of the Transactions of our Philo-
sophical Society for you, another for M. de Condorcet, and a
third for the Academy. The war had interrupted our at-
tempts to improve ourselves in scientific matters, but we now
begin to resume them.

The bearer of this is Mr. Paine, the author of a famous piece,
entitled " Common Sense," published here with great effect
on the minds of the people at the beginning of the Revolution.
He is an ingenious, honest man ; and as such I beg leave to
recommend him to your civilities. He carries with him the
model of a bridge of a new construction, his own invention,
concerning which I intended to have recommended him to M.
Peyronnet,2 but I hear he is no more. You can easily pro-
cure Mr. Paine a sight of the models and drawings of the

1 The Duchess d'Enville, mother of the Duke de la Rochefoucauld. —
W. T. F.

2 Jean-Rodolphe Perronet (1708-1794), a famous designer of bridges.
He was a member of the Academy of Sciences and a fellow of the Royal
Society. In the hall of the Royal Society his bust is placed next to that of
Franklin. Paine wrote to Franklin, June 22, 1787 (A. P. S.) : "Your old
friend M. Perinet [sic], the Bridge Architect is yet living. I was introduced
to him by M. Le Roi. He has taken a Residence in the Elysian Fields, for the
purpose of being near the works. He has invited me to see his House at Paris
where all his drawings and Models are." Speaking of Franklin's friends in
Paris, Paine said in the same letter, " My reception here in consequence of them
[Franklin's letters of introduction] has been abundantly cordial and friendly.
I have received visits and invitations from all who were in Town. The Duke

566 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1787

collection appertaining to the P outset Chaussees ; they must
afford him useful lights on the subject. We want a bridge
over our river Schuylkill, and have no artist here regularly
bred to that kind of architecture.

My grandsons are very sensible of the honour of your re-
membrance, and desire me to present their respects. With
the most sincere and perfect esteem and attachment, I am ever,

my dear friend, &c.

B. FRANKLIN.

1675. TO COMTE D'ESTAING1 (L. c.)

Philad% April, 15, 1787.

DEAR SIR: — When I receiv'd the two Letters you did
me the honour of writing to me last Year, I was made to hope
for the great Pleasure of soon receiving you here, in your
Way to Georgia. That Event would have made me very
happy. I should have had an Opportunity of showing
some Marks of the Respect I bear and always shall for the
generous Warrior, who fought and bled in the Cause of
Liberty and my Country.2 The Assembly of that State has

de Rochefoucauld & General Chastellux are in the Country. I dined yester-
day with an old Friend of yours M. Malesherbes who is of the new Council of
finances; and who received me with an Heartiness of friendship. It must
have been a very strong attachment to America that drew you from this
Country for your friends are very numerous and very affectionate.

" M. Le Roi has been most attentively kind to me. As he speaks English
there is scarcely a day pass without an interview. He took me a few days
ago to see an old friend of yours M. Buffon. But we were informed by the
servant that he was very ill, and under the operation of Medicine.' ' — ED.

1 Charles Hector-Theodat, Comte d'Estaing (1729-1794), naval officer. —
ED.

2 D'Estaing was severely wounded, October 9, 1779, in an attack upon
Savannah. — ED.

1787] TO THE MARQUIS DE CHASTELLUX 567

granted me 3,000 Acres of their Land to be located where I
can find any Vacant. I wish much that it might be near
yours : For you contriv'd to make your Neighbourhood so
agreable to me at Passy, that I could wish to be your Neigh-
bour everywhere.

M. du Plessis staid here but a few Days. I should have
been glad of any Occasion of being serviceable to him on your
Account.

The Bearer of this is Mr. Paine Author of the celebrated
Pamphlet, " Common Sense," by which the Revolution was
greatly forwarded : He must be known to you by Reputation.
Will you permit me to recommend him as a Friend of mine
to those Civilities you have so much Pleasure in showing to
Strangers of Merit.

With sincere and great Esteem and Respect, I am ever,
Dear Sir, etc.,

B. FRANKLIN.

1676. TO THE MARQUIS DE CHASTELLUX1

Philadelphia, April 17, 1787.

DEAR SIR,

Your most pleasing letter, accompanied by the invaluable
present of your Journal,2 and translation of Colonel Hum-
phreys's poem,8 came to hand but lately, though dated in June
last. I believe they have been in the West Indies. They
have given me a great deal of pleasure in the perusal, as every

1 From "The Private Correspondence of Benjamin Franklin" , Vol.
I, p. 219. — ED.

a "Voyages dans I'Amerique Septentrionale dans les Annees 1780, 81 et 82."
Paris, 1786. — ED.

* Discours en vers, addresse* aux . . . soldats des . . . Annees Americaines,
1786 (in French prose). — ED.

568 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1787

thing of yours always did. The portrait you have made of
our country and people is what in painting is called a handsome
likeness, for which we are much obliged to you. We shall be
the better for it, if we endeavour to merit what you kindly
say in our favour, and to correct what you justly censure.
I am told the Journal is translated into English, and printed
in one of the States, I know not which, not having seen the
translation.

The newspapers tell us, that you are about to have an
Assembly of Notables, to consult on improvements of your
government. It is somewhat singular, that we should be
engaged in the same project here at the same time ; but so it
is, and a convention for the purpose of revising and amending
our federal constitution is to meet at this place next month.
I hope both assemblies will be blessed with success, and that
their deliberations and counsels may promote the happiness
of both nations.

In the State of Pennsylvania, government, notwithstanding
our parties, goes on at present very smoothly, so that I have
much less trouble in my station than was expected. Massa-
chusetts has lately been disturbed by some disorderly people ;
but they are now quelled. The rest of the States go on pretty
well, except some dissensions in Rhode Island and Maryland
respecting paper money. Mr. Paine, whom you know, and
who undertakes to deliver this letter to you, can give you full
information of our affairs, and therefore I need not enlarge
upon them. I beg leave to recommend him to your civilities.
I have fulfilled all your commissions to the ladies here, who
are much flattered by your kind remembrance of them. My
family join in every sentiment of esteem and respect with,
my dear friend, yours most affectionately,

B. FRANKLIN.

1787] TO THE MARQUIS DE LAFAYETTE 569

1677. TO MESSRS. THE ABBES CHALUT AND
ARNAUD »

Philadelphia, April 17, 1787.
DEAR FRIENDS,

Your reflections on our situation, compared with that of
many nations of Europe, are very sensible and just. Let
me add, that only a virtuous people are capable of freedom.
As nations become corrupt and vicious, they have more need
of masters.

Our public affairs go on as well as can reasonably be ex-
pected, after so great an overturning. We have had some
disorders in different parts of the country, but we arrange
them as they arise, and are daily mending and improving;
so that I have no doubt but all will come right in time. Yours,

B. FRANKLIN.

1678. TO THE MARQUIS DE LAFAYETTE2

Philadelphia, April 17, 1787.

DEAR FRIEND,

I received the kind letter you did me the honour of writing,
in February, 1786." The indolence of old age, and the per-
petual teasing of too much business, have made me so bad
a correspondent, that I have hardly written a letter to any
friend in Europe during the last twelvemonth ; but, as I have

1 From " The Private Correspondence of Benjamin Franklin " , Vol.
I, p. 220. The letter is a reply to one from the Abbes, dated " Paris 9 Decem-
bre 1786."— ED.

2 From "The Private Correspondence of Benjamin Franklin" , Vol.
I, p. 221. — ED.

• February 10, 1786 : in A. P. S. — ED.

570 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1787

always a pleasure in hearing from them, which I cannot
expect will be continued if I do not write to them, I again
take up my pen, and begin with those whose correspondence
is of the greatest value ; among which I reckon that of the
Marquis de la Fayette.

I was glad to hear of your safe return to Paris, after so
long and fatiguing a journey. That is the place where your
enlightened zeal for the welfare of our country can employ
itself most to our advantage, and I know it is always at work
and indefatigable. Our enemies are, as you observe, very
industrious in depreciating our national character. Their
abuse sometimes provokes me, and I am almost ready to
retaliate ; but I have held my hand, though there is abundant
room for recrimination; because I would do nothing that
might hasten another quarrel by exasperating those, who are
still sore from their late disgraces. Perhaps it may be best,
that they should please themselves with fancying us weak,
and poor, and divided, and friendless ; they may then not be
jealous of our growing strength, which, since the peace, does
really make rapid progress, and may be less intent on inter-
rupting it.

I do not wonder that the Germans, who know little of free
constitutions, should be ready to suppose that such cannot
support themselves. We think they may, and we hope to
prove it. That there should be faults in our first sketches or
plans of government is not surprising ; rather, considering
the times, and the circumstances under which they were
formed, it is surprising that the faults are so few. Those
in the general confederating articles are now about to be con-
sidered in a convention called for that express purpose ;
these will indeed be the most difficult to rectify. Those of

1787] TO THE MARQUIS DE LAFAYETTE 571

particular States will undoubtedly be rectified, as their in-
conveniences shall by experience be made manifest. And,
whatever difference of sentiment there may be among us
respecting particular regulations, the enthusiastic rejoicings,
with which the day of declared independence is annually
celebrated, demonstrate the universal satisfaction of the people
with the Revolution and its grand principles.

I enclose the vocabulary you sent me, with the words of
the Shawanese and Delaware languages, which Colonel
Harmar has procured for me. He is promised one more
complete, which I shall send you as soon as it comes to my
hands.

My grandson, whom you so kindly inquire after, is at his
estate in the Jerseys, and amuses himself with cultivating
his lands. I wish he would seriously make a business of it,
and renounce all thoughts of public employment, for I think
agriculture the most honourable, because the most inde-
pendent, of all professions. But I believe he hankers a
little after Paris, or some other of the polished cities of Europe,
thinking the society there preferable to what he meets with
in the woods of Ancocas; as it certainly is. If he was now
here, he would undoubtedly join with me and the rest of my
family, who are much flattered by your remembrance of
them, in best wishes for your health and prosperity, and that
of your whole amiable fireside. You will allow an old friend
of fourscore to say he loves your wife, when he adds, and chil-
dren, and prays God to bless them all. Adieu ; and believe
me ever yours most affectionately,

B. FRANKLIN.

572 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1787

1679. TO JEAN-BAPTISTE LE ROY1

Philadelphia, April 18, 1787.

MY DEAR OLD FRIEND: — I believe I have not written
to you since I received your kind letter of July 26,2 and
October 9, 1786. Such has been my continual occupation
in public and private business, having the building of three
houses upon my hands, that I had no time left for philosophical
correspondence. I now take up my pen with the honest
resolution of paying off some of my debts.

You mention that M. de Buffon avoit des douleurs sem-
blables aux miennes. I sympathize with him. Let me know
in your next how he does. I do not understand these dis-
pensations of Providence, though probably they are for the
best. But it seems to me that if you or I had the disposition
of good and evil in this world, so excellent a man would not
have an hour's pain during his existence.

Your account of the progress made in the art of ballooning,
by the acquisition of a tight envelope and the means of de-
scending and rising without throwing out ballast, or letting
out air, is very pleasing. I am sorry the artists at Javelle
do not continue their experiments. I always thought they
were in the likeliest way of making improvements, as they
were remote from interruption in their experiments. I had
sometimes wished I had brought with me from France a
balloon sufficiently large to raise me from the ground. In my
malady it would have been the most easy carriage for me,

1 From "The Complete Works of Benjamin Franklin" (Bigelow), Vol. IX,
p. 377.— ED.

2 In A. P. S. — ED.

1787] TO THOMAS JEFFERSON 573

being led by a string held by a man walking on the ground.
I should be glad to have Mr. Meunier's work. Pray let
Mr. Grand know where he may buy it for me.

It gives me pleasure to hear of the success attending the
conductors at Brest and at Dijon. Time will bring them
more into use, and of course make them more useful.

It is a curious fact, that of the death of so many pigeons
by lightning without disturbing their position. Pray when
you see M. de Malesherbes,1 present to him my respects.
He is one of the most respectable characters of this age.

Believe me ever, my dear friend, with the sincerest esteem

and respect, yours most affectionately,

B. FRANKLIN.

1680. TO THOMAS JEFFERSON2 (L. c.)

Philad*, April 19, 1787.

DEAR SIR : — I have lately received your Favour of Dec.
23. The Diplomas I hope are got to hand before this time.
I am much oblig'd by your taking care of my " Encyclopedic."
Mr. Hopkinson will account with you for it.

I am glad to learn that everything is quiet in Europe, and
like to continue so. I hope the same will be the case here ;
tho' Boutdefeus are not wanting among us, who by inflam-
matory Writings hi the Papers are perpetually endeavouring
to set us together by the Ears about Taxes, and Certificates,
etc. The Insurgents in the Massachusetts are quelled,

1 Chretien-Guillaume de Lamoignon de Malesherbes (1721-1794), French
statesman, President of the Cour des Aides. — ED.

2 A press copy of this letter is in the Stevens Collection (L. C). The
original letter is in the Jefferson Papers, Vol. 33, No. 23, Series 2. — ED.

574 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1787

and I believe a great Majority of that People approve the
Measures of Government in reducing them. Yet I see that
in the late Election they have left out the late Governor and
chosen Mr. Hancock. But he was always more popular
than Mr. Bowdoin, had resign'd on Acct of his Infirmities,
and his Health being mended, his Friends have taken advan-
tage of the Offence given by Mr. Bowdoin to the Malcontents,
to increase the Number of .Votes against him. His refusing
the Bill for reducing the governor's Salary has also, I imagine,
hurt his Interest at this Election. So that upon the whole I
do not think his not being chosen any Proof of general Dis-
satisfaction with the Measures taken to suppress the Rebel-
lion, or with the Constitution.

Our Federal Constitution is generally thought defective,
and a Convention, first propos'd by Virginia, and since
recommended by Congress, is to assemble here next Month,
to revise it and propose Amendments. The Delegates
generally appointed, as far as I have heard of them, are Men
of Character for Prudence and Ability, so that I hope Good
from their Meeting. Indeed if it does not do Good it must
do Harm, as it will show that we have not Wisdom enough
among us to govern ourselves ; and will strengthen the Opin-
ion of some Political Writers, that popular Governments
cannot long support themselves.

I am sorry for the Death of M. Peyronet on Acct of Mr.
Paine, who would have been pleas'd and instructed by con-
ferring with that ingenious and skilful Artist on the Subject
of his Bridge, and it was my Intention to introduce him to
M. Peyronet's Acquaintance. I have requested the Duke
de Rochefoucauld to procure him a Sight of the Models and
Drafts in the Repository of the Ponts et Chausse*es. You

1787] TO FERDINAND GRAND $7$

are well acquainted with Mr. Paine's Merit, and need no
Request of mine to serve him in his Views, and introduce
him where it may be proper, and of Advantage to him.

With great and sincere Esteem I have the honour to be
your Excellency's most obedient and most humble Servant,

B. FRANKLIN.

1681. TO FERDINAND GRAND (L. c.)

Philad* April 22, 1787.

MY DEAR FRIEND : — I received in its time your Favour
of Sept 9, and approve of your Reason for not adding the 1 161
livres to the Credit of my Account. What related to the
Million was also very satisfactory.

Yours of Dec. 28 and Feb. 7 are just come to hand, together
with my Account for the year 1786, which appears to be right.
I observe you have sold all my Actions in the caisse d'Es-
compte ; and tho' I have no longer any concern in that Fund,
I rejoice to hear of its Prosperity. The Classics and other
Books are not come to hand, but Mr. Jefferson will take care
to send them. Those you sent by Mr. Franks are received.

Your Mention of the Malady of M. de Vergennes afflicted
me, and much more the News I since hear of his Death.
So wise and so good a Man taken away from the Station he
fill'd, is a great Loss not only to France, but to Europe in
general, to America, and to Mankind.

Not having found the Cares of Government so burthensome
as I apprehended, I consented to serve a second Year, and
was chosen unanimously by the Junction of all Parties, so that
there was but one Negative Voice, viz., my own, and that given,

576 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1787

as you may suppose for Modesty's sake. The three Houses
which I began to build last year, are nearly finished, and I
am now about to begin two others. Building is an old Man's
Amusement. The Advantage is for his Posterity. Since
my coming home, the Market is extended before my Ground
next the Street, and the high Rents such a Situation must
afford, has been one of my Inducements.

As often as my Drafts may be presented to you, exceeding
my Cash in your hands, I hereby desire you will furnish
yourself by immediately disposing of some of my Stock in
the public Funds.

For the best Room, in the Addition I have made to my
Dwelling-House, I want a Mirror measuring 59% French
Inches long, and 43 Inches wide, and I request you will send
me such a one. As the Pacquet Boat is henceforth to sail
from Havre, it will be easier to have things from Paris than
formerly. No Frame is to be with it, as it is to be fix'd over
the Chimney.

I continue, Thanks to God, in good Health. Please to re-
member me kindly to all my old Acquaintance who do me the
honour to enquire after me. My Grandsons and the rest of my
Family join me in best Wishes of Health and Happiness to you
and yours, and I am ever, with great and sincere Esteem, my
dear Friend, yours most affectionately,

B. FRANKLIN.

P. S. — I have desired Madame Helve'tius to execute a little
Commission for my Daughter. If she does it, I request you
would pay the Bills.

1787] TO ABBE MORELLET 577

1682. TO ABBE MORELLET1

Philadelphia, April 22, 1787.
MY VERY DEAR FRIEND,

I received, though long after they were written, your very
agreeable favours of October 3oth, 1785, and February gth,
1786,' with the pieces enclosed, productions of the Auteuil8
Academy of Belles Lettres. Your kind and friendly wishes
and congratulations are extremely obliging. It gives me an
infinite pleasure to find, that I still retain a favourable place
in the remembrance of the worthy and the good, whose de-
lightful and instructive society I had the happiness of enjoy-
ing while I resided in France.

But, though I could not leave that dear nation without
regret, I certainly did right in coming home. I am here in
my niche in my own house, in the bosom of my family, my
daughter and grandchildren all about me, among my old
friends, or the sons of my friends, who equally respect me;
and who all speak and understand the same language with
me ; and you know, that, if a man desires to be useful by the
exercise of his mental faculties, he loses half their force when
in a foreign country, where he can only express himself in
a language with which he is not well acquainted. In short,
I enjoy here every opportunity of doing good, and every thing
else I could wish for, except repose ; and that I may soon

1 From "The Private Correspondence of Benjamin Franklin" , Vol.
T, p. 223. — ED.

2 See " Memoires de PAbbe Morellet," Tom. T, p. 298. — ED.

3 The residence of Madame Helvetius, with whom the Abbe Morellet,
Cabanis, La Roche, and other literary friends passed much of their time. —
W. T. F.

VOL. IX — 2 P

578 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN" FRANKLIN [1787

expect, either by the cessation of my office, which cannot
last more than three years, or by ceasing to live.

I am of the same opinion with you, respecting the free-
dom of commerce, especially in countries where direct taxes
are practicable. This will be our case in time, when our
wide-extended country fills up with inhabitants. But at
present they are so widely settled, often five or six miles dis-
tant from one another in the back country, that the collection
of a direct tax is almost impossible the trouble of the col-
lectors' going from house to house amounting to more than
the value of the tax. Nothing can be better expressed than
your sentiments are on this point, where you prefer liberty of
trading, cultivating, manufacturing, &c., even to civil liberty,
this being affected but rarely, the other every hour. Our
debt occasioned by the war being heavy, we are under the
necessity of using imposts, and every method we can think of,
to assist in raising a revenue to discharge it; but in senti-
ment we are well disposed to abolish duties on importation,
as soon as we possibly can afford to do so.

Whatever may be reported by the English in Europe, you
may be assured, that our people are almost unanimous in
being satisfied with the Revolution. Their unbounded re-
spect for all who were principally concerned in it, whether as
warriors or statesmen, and the enthusiastic joy with which
the day of the declaration of independence is everywhere
annually celebrated, are indubitable proofs of this truth. In
one or two of the States there have been some discontents
on partial and local subjects ; these may have been fomented,
as the accounts of them are exaggerated, by our ancient ene-
mies; but they are now nearly suppressed, and the rest of
the States enjoy peace and good order, and flourish amaz-

1787] TO ABBE MORELLET 579

ingly. The crops have been good for several years past,
the price of country produce high, from foreign demand,
and it fetches ready money; rents are high in our towns,
which increase fast by new buildings; labourers and arti-
sans have high wages well paid, and vast tracts of new
land are continually clearing and rendered fit for cultiva-
tion.

The pains you have taken to translate the congratulatory
addresses, which I received on my arrival, is a fresh proof of
the continuance of your friendship for me, which has afforded
me as much satisfaction as the addresses themselves, and you
will readily believe, that for me this is not saying little ; for
this welcome of my fellow citizens has far surpassed my hopes.
Popular favour, not the most constant thing in the world,
stands by me. My election to the presidency for the second
year was unanimous. Will this disposition continue the same
for the third? Nothing is more doubtful. A man, who
holds a high office, finds himself so often exposed to the danger
of disobliging some one in the fulfilment of his duty, that the
resentment of those, whom he has thus offended, being greater
than the gratitude of those whom he has served, it almost al-
ways happens, that, while he is violently attacked, he is feebly
defended. You will not be surprised, then, if you learn,
that I have not closed my political career with the same
eclat, with which it commenced.

I am sorry for what you tell me of the indisposition you
have experienced. I sometimes wonder, that Providence
does not protect the good from all evil and from every suffer-
ing. This should be so in the best of worlds ; and, since it
is not so, I am piously led to believe, that, if our world is
not indeed the best, we must lay the blame on the bad quality

58o THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1787

of the materials of which it is made. I am, my dear friend,
with sincere esteem, and affection, ever yours,

B. FRANKLIN.

1683. TO FRANCIS CHILDS (A. p. s.)

Philad1. May 8. 1787.

SIR,

Your Papers do not come here regularly. I have not re-
ceived any of them for some Weeks past. I am glad however
to hear from you that it is well established, and likely to be
profitable.

You are always complaining of Imperfections in the Founts,
which I suppose to proceed from your not having right Ideas
of that Matter. They were all cast after the best Rules of the
Founderies in England, and in the same Proportions. But
as the Stiles of Authors vary, and different Subjects use the
different Sorts variously, there never could be a Fount so pro-
portioned as to run out equally in all cases. And if whenever,
in any Work, four or five Sorts run short, you cast for the De-
ficiency, in a subsequent Work those Sorts may be super-
abundant, and all the rest will appear deficient, so that there
will be no End of proceeding in that Manner. Therefore
it is, that Printers have usually to every large Fount what they
call a Bomcase, or Fount Case, that is, a Case with larger
Divisions, and deeper than the common Cases, to hold those
Sorts that are superfluous in one kind of Work, and where
they may be found when wanting in another. You remark
that your now demanding more of sundry Sorts (after being
supply'd with all you formerly thought wanting) is owing
partly to your not taking an accurate List of the Imperfec-

1787] TO FRANCIS CHILDS 581

tions at first : and I am persuaded that the present List you
have sent me is far from being accurate, since it is in Pounds
weight, and not in the Number of Letters. This lumping
Method of calling for Sorts to supply supposed Imper-
fections, 5 lb of m's 3 lb of s's etc, etc, can never be accurate ;
and in this Instance of the Petit Romain, you may
see already the Effect of such Inaccuracy, viz, to augment
instead of diminishing the Imperfections of a Fount ; for at
first you wanted but 4 or 5 Sorts of the lower Case, and now
you want 15 or 16, which is a great Part of the four & twenty,
and proves what I have said above that there can be no End
of going on in this Way. — However, to oblige you, tho' it
is much more Trouble as the Mold must be adjusted afresh
for every little Parcel, you shall have the Sorts you want if
you send a List of them in Numbers. My Grandson l will
cast them, as soon as he has taken his Degree and got clear
of the College ; for then he purposes to apply himself closely
to the Business of Letter founding and this is expected in
July next. You shall also have some Ws of a better form for
the Pica as you desire. — And I will willingly receive the
Petit Canon again which you propose to return. By the
way, I do not know whether I have a perfect Account of
what you have returned, and I wish you would send it to me,
I am ever,

Your assured Friend &c.

[B. F.]

1 Benjamin Franklin Bache. — ED.

582 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1787

1684. TO THOMAS JORDAN1

Philadelphia, May 18, 1787.

DEAR SIR,

I received your very kind letter of February 27th,2 together
with the cask of porter you have been so good as to send me.
We have here at present what the French call une assemblee
des notables, a convention composed of some of the principal
people from the several States of our confederation. They
did me the honor of dining with me last Wednesday, when the
cask was broached, and its contents met with the most cor-
dial reception and universal approbation. In short, the
company agreed unanimously, that it was the best porter
they had ever tasted. Accept my thanks, a poor return, but
all I can make at present.

Your letter reminds me of many happy days we have
passed together, and the dear friends with whom we passed
them ; some of whom, alas ! have left us, and we must regret
their loss, although our Ha wkes worth is become an Adven-
turer 3 in more happy regions ; and our Stanley 4 gone, " where
only his own harmony can be exceeded." You give me joy
in telling me, that you are "on the pinnacle of content"
Without it no situation can be happy; with it, any. One
means of becoming content with one's situation is the com-

1 From "The Private Correspondence of Benjamin Franklin " , Vol.
I, p. 225. Thomas Jordan was a London brewer. — ED.

2 In A. P. S. — ED.

3 In allusion to the "Adventurer," by John Hawkesworth (1715-1773),
compiler of the account of the Discoveries made in the South Seas by
Captain Cook. — ED.

4 John Stanley, an eminent musician and composer, became blind at the
age of two years. — W. T. F.

1787] TO THOMAS JORDAN 583

paring it with a worse. Thus, when I consider how many
terrible diseases the human body is liable to, I comfort my-
self, that only three incurable ones have fallen to my share,
viz. the gout, the stone, and old age ; and that these have not
yet deprived me of my natural cheerfulness, my delight in
books, and enjoyment of social conversation.

I am glad to hear, that Mr. Fitzmaurice1 is married, and
has an amiable lady and children.3 It is a better plan than
that he once proposed, of getting Mrs. Wright to make him
a wax- work wife to sit at the head of his table. For after all,
wedlock is the natural state of man. A bachelor is not a
complete human being. He is like the odd half of a pair of
scissors, which has not yet found its fellow, and therefore is
not even half so useful as they might be together.

I hardly know which to admire most ; the wonderful dis-
coveries made by Herschel,8 or the indefatigable ingenuity
by which he has been enabled to make them. Let us hope,
my friend, that, when free from these bodily embarrassments,
we may roam together through some of the systems he has
explored, conducted by some of our old companions already
acquainted with them. Hawkesworth will enliven our prog-
ress with his cheerful, sensible converse, and Stanley accom-
pany the music of the spheres.

Mr. Watmaugh 4 tells me, for I immediately inquired after
her, that your daughter is alive and well. I remember her

1 The Honourable Fitzmaurice was settled in Wales in the Vale of
Clwydd, where he employed himself bleaching linen manufactured on his
estate in Ireland. — . ED.

2 He had one son. — ED.

8 The discovery of the two satellites of Georgium Sidus. — ED.
4 Mr. Watmaugh brought the cask of porter from England to Philadelphia.
— ED.

584 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1787

a most promising and beautiful child, and therefore do not
wonder, that she is grown, as he says, a fine woman. God
bless her and you, my dear friend, and every thing that per-
tains to you, is the sincere prayer of yours most affectionately,

B. FRANKLIN.

in his eighty-second year.

1685. TO WILLIAM HERSCHELL1 (H.)

Philad. May 18, 1787.

SIR,

I received the letter you did me the honour of writing to
me the i8th of Feb. past, together with your Catalogue of
1000 new nebulae and Clusters of Stars, which I immediately
communicated to our Philosophical Society, who return their
thanks, and congratulate you cordially on your important
new Discovery of the two Satellites revolving round the
Georgian planet.

You have wonderfully extended the Power of human
Vision, and are daily making us Acquainted with Regions
of the Universe totally unknown to mankind in former Ages.
Had Fortune place 'd you in this part of America, your Prog-
ress hi these Discoveries might have been still more rapid,
as from the more frequent clearness of our Air, we have near
one Third more in the year of good observing Days than
there are in England. With great esteem, I have the honour
to be, Sir,

Your most obedient, humble Servant

B. FRANKLIN.

1 In the Sparks papers at Harvard University, endorsed by Jared Sparks
"sent by Charles Sumner from Vienna. Rec'd March 3d 1840." It came
too late to be published by Sparks. — ED.

1787] TO RICHARD PRICE 585

1686. TO JOHN ADAMS (M. H. s.)

Philad* May 18, 1787.
SIR

I received by Dr White the Letter you did me the honour
of writing to me the 27th of January, together with two copies
of your Defence of the American Constitutions, one for my-
self for which I beg you would accept my Thanks, the other
for the Philosophical Society whose Secretary will of course
officially acknowledge the Obligation. That work is in
such Request here, that it is already put to Press, and a
numerous Edition will speedily be abroad. My son Beach
and my Grandson are much flatter'd by your Remembrance
of them and join in presenting their Respects. Be pleased
to offer mine to Mrt Adams and your amiable daughter.
With great Esteem I have the honour to be,

Your most obedient

and most humble Servant
Sir, B. FRANKLIN.

1687. TO RICHARD PRICE1 (p. c.)

Philada, May 18, 1787.

MY DEAR FRIEND, — I received your favour of Jan. 26 3
with the volume of Sermons, for which please to accept my
thanks. I have read them with great pleasure, and I think
no one can read them without improvement.

1 From a copy in M. H. S. The original is in the possession of Mr.
Walter Ashburner, of London. — ED.

2 In A. P. S. — ED.

S86 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1787

I condole with you on the loss of that excellent woman,
so long your pleasing companion.1 The being depriv'd of
dear friends and relations one after another, is a very severe
tax we pay for living a great while ourselves. But such is
the miserable state of things in this period of our existence ;
the rectification is only to be expected in that which is to
come.

My health continues as when Mrs. Vaughan left us. My
malady does not grow perceptibly worse, and I hope may
continue tolerable to my life's end, which cannot now be
far distant, being in my 82* year.

On farther consideration of my scheme for sinking the
national debt, I became so doubtful of it as not to venture
exposing it to Baron Maseres. I must digest it a little
better.

We have now meeting here a Convention of the principal
people in the several States, for the purpose of revising the
federal Constitution, and proposing such amendments as
shall be thoroughly necessary. It is a most important busi-
ness, and I hope will be attended with success.

With great and sincere esteem, I am ever, my dear Friend
Yours most affectionately.

B. FRANKLIN.

If you have not received the Vol. of our Transactions I
will send you another.

1 Mrs. Price died of palsy in September, 1786. — ED.

1787] TO GEORGE WHATLEY 587

1688. TO GEORGE WHATLEY1

Philadelphia, May 18, 1787.

I RECEIVED duly my good old friend's letter of the igth a
of February. I thank you much for your notes on banks;
they are just and solid, as far as I can judge of them. Our
bank here has met with great opposition, partly from envy, and
partly from those who wish an emission of more paper money,
which they think the bank influence prevents. But it has
stood all attacks, and went on well, notwithstanding the As-
sembly repealed its charter. A new Assembly has restored
it ; and the management is so prudent, that I have no doubt
of its continuing to go on well. The dividend has never been
less than six per cent, nor will that be augmented for some
time, as the surplus profit is reserved to face accidents.
The dividend of eleven per cent, which was once made, was
from a circumstance scarce avoidable. A new company was
proposed ; and prevented only by admitting a number of new
partners. As many of the first set were averse to this, and
chose to withdraw, it was necessary to settle their accounts ;
so all were adjusted, the profits shared that had been accu-
mulated, and the new and old proprietors jointly began on
a new and equal footing. Their notes are always instantly
paid on demand, and pass on all occasions as readily as silver,
because they will always produce silver.

Your medallion is in good company; it is placed with
those of Lord Chatham, Lord Camden, Marquis of Rock-

1 From "The Private Correspondence of Benjamin Franklin" ,
Vol. I, p. 227. — ED.

2 This should be i2th of February. The letter is in A. P. S. — ED.

588 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1787

ingham, Sir George Saville, and some others, who honoured
me with a show of friendly regard, when in England. I be-
lieve I have thanked you for it, but I thank you again.

I believe, with you, that if our Plenipo is desirous of con-
cluding a treaty of commerce, he may need patience. If
I were in his place, and not otherwise instructed, I should be
apt to say, "Take your own time, gentlemen. If the treaty
cannot be made as much to your advantage as to ours, don't
make it. I am sure the want of it is not more to our disad-
vantage than to yours. Let the merchants on both sides
treat with one another. Laissez-les jaire."

I have never considered attentively the Congress's scheme
for coining, and I have it not now at hand, so that at present
I can say nothing to it. The chief uses of coining seem to
be the ascertaining the fineness of the metals, and saving the
time that would otherwise be spent in weighing to ascertain
the quality. But the convenience of fixed values to pieces
is so great, as to force the currency of some whose stamp is
worn off, that should have assured their fineness, and which
are evidently not of half their due weight ; the case at present
with the sixpences in England; which, one with another,
do not weight threepence.

You are now seventy-eight, and I am eighty-two; you
tread fast upon my heels ; but, though you have more strength
and spirit, you cannot come up with me till I stop, which must
now be soon ; for I am grown so old as to have buried most
of the friends of my youth, and I now often hear persons
whom I knew when children, called old Mr. such-a-one, to
distinguish them from their sons now men grown and in busi-
ness ; so that, by living twelve years beyond David's period,
I seem to have intruded myself into the company of posterity,

1787] TO MRS. JANE MECOM 589

when I ought to have been abed and asleep. Yet, had I gone
at seventy, it would have cut off twelve of the most active
years of my life, employed too in matters of the greatest im-
portance ; but whether I have been doing good or mischief
is for time to discover. I only know that I intended well,
and I hope all will end well.

Be so good as to present my affectionate respects to Dr.
Riley.1 I am under great obligations to him, and shall write
to him shortly. It will be a pleasure to him to know, that my
malady does not grow sensibly worse, and that is a great
point ; for it has always been so tolerable, as not to prevent
my enjoying the pleasures of society, and being cheerful in
conversation. I owe this in a great measure to his good
counsels. Adieu, my dear friend, and believe me ever yours
most affectionately,

B. FRANKLIN.

1689. TO MRS. JANE MECOM (L. c.)

Philad*, May 30, 1787.

DEAR SISTER : — In your Letter of March 9, you mention
that you wanted to know all about my Buildings. To the
East End of my Dwelling-House I have made an Addition
of 1 6 Feet and an half wide and 33 feet long, that is the whole
Length of the old House, so that the Front and Back of the
old and new Building range even, and the Row of Windows,
Eaves, and Roof are continu'd so as to appear but one Build-
ing. By this Addition I have gain'd a large Cellar for Wood,
a Drawing- Room or Dining- Room on the same Level with

1 The name is written Rowley in Mr. Whatley's letter. Possibly it is Dr.
William Rowley who wrote a book upon Gout, in 1 780. — ED.

590 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1787

our old Dining-Room, in which new Room we can dine a
Company of 24 Persons, it being 16 feet wide and 30^ long;
and it has 2 Windows at each End, the North and South,
which will make it an airy Summer Room; and for Winter
there is a good Chimney in the Middle, made handsome with
marble Slabs. Over this Room is my Library, of the same
Dimensions, with like Windows at each End, and lin'd with
Books to the Cieling. Over this are 2 lodging-Rooms : and
over all a fine Garret. The Way into the Lower Room is out
of the Entry passing by the Foot of the Stairs. Into the
Library I go thro' one of the Closets of the old Drawing-
Room or Bed- Chamber. And into the two new Rooms above
thro' a Passage cut off from the Nursery. All these Rooms
are now finished and inhabited, very much to the Con-
venience of the Family, who were before too much crowded.
The two new Houses next the Street are three Stories high,
besides the Garrets, and an arch'd Passage is left in the middle
between them to come thro' down to my Dwelling, wide
enough for a Carriage ; so that I have the old Passage Lot
left free to build another House. The two Houses are 24
feet front each, and 45 deep. We are all well, and join in
Love to you and yours. I am ever, your affectionate Brother,

B. FRANKLIN.

1690. SPEECH IN THE CONVENTION;

ON THE SUBJECT OF SALARIES * (L. C.)
SIR,

It is with Reluctance that I rise to express a Disapproba-
tion of any one Article of the Plan, for which we are so much

1 This speech was delivered June 2, 1787. It is from an auto, draft in
L. C. — ED.

1787] SPEECH ON SALARIES 591

obliged to the honourable Gentleman who laid it before us.
From its first Reading, I have borne a good Will to it, and,
in general, wish'd it Success. In this Particular of Salaries
to the Executive Branch, I happen to differ; and, as my
Opinion may appear new and chimerical, it is only from a
Persuasion that it is right, and from a Sense of Duty, that I
hazard it. The Committee will judge of my Reasons when
they have heard them, and their judgment may possibly
change mine. I think I see Inconveniences in the Appoint-
ment of Salaries ; I see none in refusing them, but on the
contrary great Advantages.

Sir, there are two Passions which have a powerful Influence
in the Affairs of Men. These are Ambition and Avarice;
the Love of Power and the Love of Money. Separately, each
of these has great Force in prompting Men to Action; but
when united in View of the same Object, they have in many
Minds the most violent Effects. Place before the Eyes of
such Men a Post of Honour^ that shall at the same time be
a Place of Profit, and they will move Heaven and Earth to
obtain it. The vast Number of such Places it is that renders
the British Government so tempestuous. The Struggles for
them are the true Source of all those Factions which are
perpetually dividing the Nation, distracting its Councils,
hurrying it sometimes into fruitless and mischievous Wars,
and often compelling a Submission to dishonourable Terms
of Peace.

And of what kind are the men that will strive for this profit-
able Preeminence, thro' all the Bustle of Cabal, the Heat of
Contention, the infinite mutual Abuse of Parties, tearing to
Pieces the best of Characters? It will not be the wise and
moderate, the Lovers of Peace and good Order, the men

592 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1787

fittest for the Trust. It will be the Bold and the Violent, the
men of strong Passions and indefatigable Activity in their
selfish Pursuits. These will thrust themselves into your
Government, and be your Rulers. And these, too, will be
mistaken in the expected Happiness of their Situation; for
their vanquished competitors, of the same Spirit, and from
the same Motives, will perpetually be endeavouring to
distress their Administration, thwart their Measures, and
render them odious to the People.

Besides these Evils, Sir, tho' we may set out in the Begin-
ning with moderate Salaries, we shall find, that such will
not be of long Continuance. Reasons will never be wanting
for proposed Augmentations ; and there will always be a Party
for giving more to the Rulers, that the Rulers may be able in
Return to give more to them. Hence, as all History informs
us, there has been in every State and Kingdom a constant
kind of Warfare between the Governing and the Governed ;
the one striving to obtain more for its Support, and the other
to pay less. And this has alone occasion'd great Con-
vulsions, actual civil Wars, ending either in dethroning of the
Princes or enslaving of the People. Generally, indeed, the
Ruling Power carries its Point, and we see the Revenues of
Princes constantly increasing, and we see that they are
never satisfied, but always in want of more. The more the
People are discontented with the Oppression of Taxes, the
greater Need the Prince has of Money to distribute among his
Partisans, and pay the Troops that are to suppress all Re-
sistance, and enable him to plunder at Pleasure. There is
scarce a King in a hundred, who would not, if he could, follow
the Example of Pharaoh, — get first all the People's Money,
then all their Lands, and then make them and their Children

1787] SPEECH ON SALARIES 593

Servants for ever. It will be said, that we do not propose to
establish Kings. I know it. But there is a natural Inclina-
tion in Mankind to kingly Government. It sometimes
relieves them from Aristocratic Domination. They had
rather have one Tyrant than 500. It gives more of the Ap-
pearance of Equality among Citizens ; and that they like.
I am apprehensive, therefore, — perhaps too apprehensive, —
that the Government of these States may in future times end
in a Monarchy. But this Catastrophe, I think, may be long
delay'd, if in our propos'd System we do not sow the Seeds of
Contention, Faction, and Tumult, by making our Posts of
Honour Places of Profit. If we do, I fear, that, tho' we em-
ploy at first a Number and not a single Person, the Number
will in time be set aside ; it will only nourish the Foetus of a
King (as the honourable Gentleman from Virg* very aptly
expressed it), and a King will the sooner be set over us.

It may be imagined by some, that this is an Utopian Idea,
and that we can never find Men to serve us in the Execu-
tive Department, without paying them well for their Ser-
vices. I conceive this to be a Mistake. Some existing Facts
present themselves to me, which incline me to a contrary
Opinion. The High Sheriff of a County in England is an
honourable Office, but it is not a profitable one. It is rather
expensive, and therefore not sought for. But yet it is executed,
and well executed, and usually by some of the principal
Gentlemen of the County. In France, the Office of Coun-
sellor, or Member of their judiciary Parliaments, is more
honourable. It is therefore purchas'd at a high Price ; there
are indeed Fees on the Law Proceedings, which are divided
among them, but these Fees do not amount to more than three
per cent on the Sum paid for the Place. Therefore, as legal

VOL. IX — 2 Q

594 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1787

Interest is there at five per cent, they in fact pay two per cent
for being allow'd to do the Judiciary Business of the Nation,
which is at the same time entirely exempt from the Burthen
of paying them any Salaries for their Services. I do not,
however, mean to recommend this as an eligible Mode for
our judiciary Department. I only bring the Instance to
show, that the Pleasure of doing Good and serving their Coun-
try, and the Respect such Conduct entitles them to, are suffi-
cient Motives with some Minds, to give up a great Portion of
their Time to the Public, without the mean Inducement of
pecuniary Satisfaction.

Another Instance is that of a respectable Society, who have
made the Experiment, and practis'd it with Success, now
more than a hundred years. I mean the Quakers. It is
an establish'd Rule with them that they are not to go to law,
but in their Controversies they must apply to their Monthly,
Quarterly, and Yearly Meetings. Committees of these sit
with Patience to hear the Parties, and spend much time in
composing their Differences. In doing this, they are sup-
ported by a Sense of Duty, and the Respect paid to Useful-
ness. It is honourable to be so employ'd, but it was never
made profitable by Salaries, Fees, or Perquisites. And
indeed, in all Cases of public Service, the less the Profit the
greater the Honour.

To bring the Matter nearer home, have we not seen the
greatest and most important of our Offices, that of General
of our Armies, executed for Eight Years together, without
the smallest Salary, by a patriot whom I will not now offend
by any other Praise ; and this, thro' Fatigues and Distresses,
in common with the other brave Men, his military Friends
and Companions, and the constant Anxieties peculiar to his

1787] PROPORTION OF REPRESENTATION, ETC. 595

Station ? And shall we doubt finding three or four Men in all
the United States, with public Spirit enough to bear sitting in
peaceful Council, for perhaps an equal Term, merely to pre-
side over our civil Concerns, and see that our Laws are
duly executed ? Sir, I have a better opinion of our Country.
I think we shall never be without a sufficient Number of wise
and good Men to undertake, and execute well and faithfully,
the Office in question.

Sir, the Saving of the Salaries, that may at first be propos'd,
is not an object with me. The subsequent Mischiefs of pro-
posing them are what I apprehend. And therefore it is that
I move the Amendment. If it is not seconded or accepted,
I must be contented with the Satisfaction of having delivered
my Opinion frankly, and done my Duty.

1691. SPEECH IN A COMMITTEE OF THE CON-
VENTION; (L. c.)

ON THE PROPORTION OF REPRESENTATION AND VOTES l

MR. CHAIRMAN,

It has given me great Pleasure to observe, that, till this
Point, the Proportion of Representation, came before us, our
Debates were carry'd on with great Coolness and Temper. If
any thing of a contrary kind has, on this Occasion, appeared,
I hope it will not be repeated ; for we are sent hither to con-
sult, not to contend, with each other; and Declaration of a
fix'd Opinion, and of determined Resolutions never to change

1 From an auto, draft in L. C This speech was delivered June n, 1787.
— ED.

596 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1787

it, neither enlighten nor convince us. Positiveness and
Warmth on one side naturally beget their like on the other;
and tend to create and augment Discord and Division in a
great Concern, wherein Harmony and Union are extremely
necessary, to give Weight to our Counsels, and render them
effectual in promoting and securing the common Good.

I must own, that I was originally of Opinion it would be
better if every Member of Congress, or our national Council,
were to consider himself rather as a Representative of the
whole, than as an Agent for the Interests of a particular
State; in which Case the Proportion of Members for each
State would be of less Consequence, and it would not be very
material whether they voted by States or individually. But
as I find this is not to be expected, I now think the Number
of Representatives should bear some Proportion to the
Number of the Represented, and that the Decisions should
be by the Majority of Members, not by the Majority of States.
This is objected to, from an Apprehension that the greater
States would then swallow up the Smaller. I do not at pres-
ent clearly see what Advantage the greater States could pro-
pose to themselves by swallowing the smaller, and therefore
do not apprehend they would attempt it. I recollect, that
in the Beginning of this Century, when the Union was pro-
pos'd of the two Kingdoms, England and Scotland, the Scotch
patriots were full of Fears, that, unless they had an equal
Number of Representatives in Parliament, they should be
ruined by the Superiority of the English. They finally
agreed, however, that the different Proportions of Importance
in the Union of the two Nations should be attended to;
whereby they were to have only Forty Members in the House
of Commons, and only Sixteen of their Peers were to sit in

1787] PROPORTION OF REPRESENTATION, ETC. 597

the House of Lords ; a very great Inferiority of Numbers !
And yet, to this Day, I do not recollect that any thing has been
done in the Parliament of Great Britain to the Prejudice of
Scotland ; and whoever looks over the Lists of publick Offi-
cers, Civil and Military, of that Nation, will find, I believe,
that the North Britons enjoy at least their full proportion of
Emolument.

But, Sir, in the present Mode of Voting by States, it is
equally in the Power of the lesser States to swallow up the
greater; and this is mathematically demonstrable. Sup-
pose, for example, that 7 smaller States had each 3 members
in the House, and the Six larger to have, one with another, 6
Members ; and that, upon a Question, two Members of each
smaller State should be in the Affirmative, and one in the
Negative; they will make

Affirmatives, 14 Negatives 7

And that all the large States should
be unanimously in the negative;
they would make Negatives 36

In all 41 [sic]

It is then apparent, that the 14 carry the question against
the 41, and the Minority overpowers the Majority, contrary
to the common Practice of Assemblies in all Countries and
Ages.

The greater States, Sir, are naturally as unwilling to have
their Property left in the Disposition of the smaller, as the
smaller are to leave theirs in the Disposition of the greater.
An honourable Gentleman has, to avoid this difficulty, hinted
a Proposition of equalizing the States. It appears to me an
equitable one ; and I should, for my own Part, not be against

598 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1787

such a Measure, if it might be found practicable. Formerly,
indeed, when almost every Province had a different Constitu-
tion, some with greater, others with fewer Privileges, it was
of Importance to the Borderers, when their Boundaries were
contested, whether, by running the Division Lines, they were
placed on one Side or the other. At present, when such
Differences are done away, it is less material. The Interest
of a State is made up of the Interests of its individual Mem-
bers. If they are not injured, the State is not injured.
Small States are more easily, well, and happily governed,
than large ones. If, therefore, in such an equal Division, it
should be found necessary to diminish Pennsylvania, I should
not be averse to the giving a part of it to N. Jersey, and
another to Delaware: But as there would probably be con-
siderable Difficulties in adjusting such a Division; and,
however equally made at first, it would be continually varying
by the Augmentation of Inhabitants in some States, and
their more fixed proportion in others, and thence frequent
Occasion for new Divisions ; I beg leave to propose for the
Consideration of the Committee another Mode, which appears
to me to be as equitable, more easily carry'd into Practice,
and more permanent in its Nature.

Let the weakest State say what Proportion of Money or
Force it is able and willing to furnish for the general Pur-
poses of the Union.

Let all the others oblige themselves to furnish each an
equal Proportion.

The whole of these joint Supplies to be absolutely in the
Disposition of Congress.

The Congress in this Case to be composed of an equal
Number of Delegates from each State;

1787] PROPORTION- OF REPRESENTATION, ETC. 599

And their Decisions to be by the Majority of individual
Members voting.

If these joint and equal Supplies should, on particular
Occasions, not be sufficient, let Congress make Requisitions
on the richer and more powerful States for further Aids, to
be voluntarily afforded; so leaving each State the Right of
considering the Necessity and Utility of the Aid desired,
and of giving more or less, as it should be found proper.

This Mode is not new; it was formerly practic'd with
Success by the British Government, with respect to Ireland
and the Colonies. We sometimes gave even more than they
expected, or thought just to accept; and in the last War, car-
ried on while we were united, they gave us back in 5 Years a
Million Sterling. We should probably have continu'd such
voluntary Contributions, whenever the Occasions appear'd to
require them for the common Good of the Empire. It was
not till they chose to force us, and to deprive us of the Merit
and Pleasure of voluntary Contributions, that we refus'd and
resisted. Those Contributions, however, were to be dis-
pos'd of at the Pleasure of a Government in which we had no
Representative. I am therefore persuaded, that they will not
be refus'd to one in which the Representation shall be equal.

My learned Colleague has already mentioned that the
present method of voting by States, was submitted to origi-
nally by Congress, under a Conviction of its Impropriety,
Inequality, and Injustice. This appears in the Words of
their Resolution. It is of Sept. 6, 1774. The words are,

a Resolved, That, in determining Questions in this Con-
gress, each Colony or Province shall have one vote ; the Con-
gress not being possessed of, or at present able to procure,
Materials for ascertaining the Importance of each Colony."

6oo THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1787
1692. MOTION

FOR PRAYERS IN THE CONVENTION1 (L.C.)

MR. PRESIDENT,

The small Progress we have made, after 4 or 5 Weeks'
close Attendance and continual Reasonings with each other,
our different Sentiments on almost every Question, several
of the last producing as many Noes as Ayes, is, methinks, a
melancholy Proof of the Imperfection of the Human Under-
standing. We indeed seem to feel our own want of political
Wisdom, since we have been running all about in Search of
it. We have gone back to ancient History for Models of
Government, and examin'd the different Forms of those
Republics, which, having been orignally form'd with the
Seeds of their own Dissolution, now no longer exist ; and we
have view'd modern States all round Europe, but find none
of their Constitutions suitable to our Circumstances.

In this Situation of this Assembly, groping, as it were, in the
dark to find Political Truth, and scarce able to distinguish it
when presented to us, how has it happened, Sir, that we have
not hitherto once thought of humbly applying to the Father
of Lights to illuminate our Understandings? In the Begin-
ning of the Contest with Britain, when we were sensible of
Danger, we had daily Prayers in this Room for the Divine
Protection. Our Prayers, Sir, were heard ; — and they
were graciously answered. All of us, who were engag'd in
the Struggle, must have observed frequent Instances of a

1 From an auto, draft in L. C. The "motion" was made June 28, 1787.
— ED.

1787] MOTION FOR PRAYERS IN CONVENTION 601

superintending Providence in our Favour. To that kind
Providence we owe this happy Opportunity of Consulting
in Peace on the Means of establishing our future national
Felicity. And have we now forgotten that powerful Friend ?
or do we imagine we no longer need its assistance ? I have
lived, Sir, a long time; and the longer I live, the more con-
vincing proofs I see of this Truth, that GOD governs in the
Affairs of Men. And if a Sparrow cannot fall to the Ground
without his Notice, is it probable that an Empire can rise
without his Aid ? We have been assured, Sir, in the Sacred
Writings, that " except the Lord build the House, they labour
in vain that build it" I firmly believe this; and I also
believe, that, without his concurring Aid, we shall succeed in
this political Building no better than the Builders of Babel;
we shall be divided by our little, partial, local Interests,
our Projects will be confounded, and we ourselves shall be-
come a Reproach and a Bye-word down to future Ages.
And, what is worse, Mankind may hereafter, from this un-
fortunate Instance, despair of establishing Government by
human Wisdom, and leave it to Chance, War, and Con-
quest.

I therefore beg leave to move,

That henceforth Prayers, imploring the Assistance of
Heaven and its Blessing on our Deliberations, be held in this
Assembly every morning before we proceed to Business ; and
that one or more of the Clergy of this city be requested to
officiate in that Service.1

1 Note by Franklin. — " The convention, except three or four persons,
thought prayers unnecessary ! " — ED.

604 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1787

excellent Minister, Dewit, was murdered, all the old Magis-
trates displac'd, and the Stadtholder re-invested with all the
former Powers. In this Century, the father of the present
Stadtholder, having married a British princess, did, by exciting
another Insurrection, force from the Nation a Decree, that
the stadtholdership should be thenceforth hereditary in his
Family. And now his Son, being suspected of having
favoured England in the late War, and thereby lost the Con-
fidence of the Nation, is forming an internal Faction to sup-
port his Power, and reinstate his Favourite, the Duke of
Brunswick; and he holds up his Family Alliances with
England and Prussia to terrify Opposition. It was this Con-
duct of the Stadtholder, which induc'd the States to recur
to the Protection of France, and put their Troops under a
French, rather than the Stadtholder's German General, the
Duke of Brunswick. And this is the Source of all the present
Disorders in Holland, which, if the Stadtholder has Abilities
equal to his Inclinations, will probably, after a ruinous and
bloody civil War, end in establishing an hereditary Monarchy
in his Family.

1694. TO JOHN PAUL JONES (L. L.)

Philad* July 22, 1787.

DEAR SIR,

I am sorry I cannot yet send you the Papers you desir'd.
My Grandson has remain'd in the Country longer than I ex-
pected, and is still there. But I will send them to you at
Paris by the first Opportunity, under Cover to Mr Jefferson.
Be pleased to present my Respects to him, and acquaint him
that the Convention goes on well, and that there is hope of

1787] TO CALEB WHITEFOORD 605

great Good to result from their Counsels. — I intended to
have wrote to him : but three Days Illness from which I have
hardly recovered have prevented me. Please to acquaint
Mr Short, too, that I received the Packets he was so kind as
to send me and am much oblig'd to him for his Care of them.
- 1 wish you a good Voyage, and every kind of Prosperity ;
being, with sincere Esteem, Dear Sir,

Your most obedient &

most humble Servant

B. FRANKLIN.

I am not able to write by this Ship to any of my Friends in
Paris, being so weak as to be scarce able to finish this Letter.

1695. TO CALEB WHITEFOORD ' (B. M.)

Southampton, July 27. 1787.

DEAR FRIEND

My Son has shown me here a Newspaper, with your
Friendly Vindication of me ; for which good Office accept my
Thanks. The writer of the Calumny you have so well refuted,
manifests a good deal of Malignancy in his Nature; and
such People are afflicted and punished, when they find those
Accusations false, which they wish'd to be true. He may
therefore be left to himself ; and it is hardly worth while to let
him know, that the Person he is so desirous of defaming,

1 The original of this letter is " 36593 Whitefoord " in the British Museum.
It is in Franklin's best handwriting and clearly and unmistakably dated as
above. It is as certainly however an error and the date should be 1785.
Upon the same day (July 27) W. T. Franklin wrote to Whitefoord a letter,
which is also in the Whitefoord collection, in which he referred in like man-
ner to the compensation that had been so long delayed. — ED.

6o6 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1787

not only did not mention the Transaction he alludes to, at
the time he states, but at no other time, nor to any other
Person or Persons, from the Day it happen'd, to the present.
I am sorry to learn that no Compensation has been made
to you for your Services here at the Treaty. Had Mr. Os-
wald surviv'd he certainly would have endeavour'd to pro-
cure something for you ; tho' he intended, as I heard him say,
to demand nothing for himself. With great Esteem, I am

ever, my dear Friend,

Yours most Affectionately

B. FRANKLIN.

1696. TO S. OSGOOD AND A. LEE (A. P. s.)

Phi. Aug. 31. 1787
GENTN-

I received the Lr you did me the Hon to write to me the
1 6th Inst. respecting the Accounts of Mr. Ross, with their
Vouchers suppos'd to be in my Hands. I have made some
Search but do not find them, and think they were probably
deliver'd with other publick Accounts to Mr. Barclay.
However, as soon as my Grandson returns from Albany,
whom I expect in a Week or ten Days, and, who knows
better than I do the Arrangement of our immense Mass of
Papers, I shall cause a more full Search to be made, and if
those you demand are found they shall be immediately sent
to you

I have the honour to be &c

[B. F.]

1787] SPEECH IN CONVENTION AT CONCLUSION 607
1697. SPEECH IN THE CONVENTION,

AT THE CONCLUSION OF ITS DELIBERATIONS1 (L.C.)

MR. PRESIDENT,

I confess, that I do not entirely approve of this Constitu-
tion at present ; but, Sir, I am not sure I shall never approve
it ; for, having lived long, I have experienced many instances
of being obliged, by better information or fuller consideration,
to change my opinions even on important subjects, which I
once thought right, but found to be otherwise. It is there-
fore that, the older I grow, the more apt I am to doubt my
own judgment of others. Most men, indeed, as well as most
sects in religion, think themselves in possession of all truth,
and that wherever others differ from them, it is so far error.
Steele, a Protestant, in a dedication, tells the Pope, that the
only difference between our two churches in their opinions
of the certainty of their doctrine, is, the Romish Church is
infallible, and the Church of England is never in the wrong.
But, though many private Persons think almost as highly of
their own infallibility as of that of their Sect, few express it
so naturally as a certain French Lady, who, in a little dispute
with her sister, said, " But I meet with nobody but myself that
is always in the right." "Je ne trouve que moi qui aie tou-
jours raison."

In these sentiments, Sir, I agree to this Constitution, with
all its faults, — if they are such ; because I think a general
Government necessary for us, and there is no form of govern-
ment but what may be a blessing to the people, if well

1 From a trans, in L. C. The date of the speech is September 17, 1787. — ED.

608 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1787

administered ; and I believe, farther, that this is likely to be
well administered for a course of years, and can only end in
despotism, as other forms have done before it, when the people
shall become so corrupted as to need despotic government,
being incapable of any other. I doubt, too, whether any
other Convention we can obtain, may be able to make a better
constitution; for, when you assemble a number of men, to
have the advantage of their joint wisdom, you inevitably
assemble with those men all their prejudices, their passions,
their errors of opinion, their local interests, and their selfish
views. From such an assembly can a perfect production be
expected? It therefore astonishes me, Sir, to find this sys-
tem approaching so near to perfection as it does ; and I think
it will astonish our enemies, who are waiting with confidence
to hear, that our councils are confounded like those of the
builders of Babel, and that our States are on the point of
separation, only to meet hereafter for the purpose of cutting
one another's throats. Thus I consent, Sir, to this Con-
stitution, because I expect no better, and because I am not
sure that it is not the best. The opinions I have had of its
errors I sacrifice to the public good. I have never whispered a
syllable of them abroad. Within these walls they were born,
and here they shall die. If every one of us, in returning to
our Constituents, were to report the objections he has had to
it, and endeavour to gain Partisans in support of them, we
might prevent its being generally received, and thereby lose
all the salutary effects and great advantages resulting naturally
in our favour among foreign nations, as well as among our-
selves, from our real or apparent unanimity. Much of the
strength and efficiency of any government, in procuring and
securing happiness to the people, depends on opinion, on the

1787] TO ST. CLAIR AND OTHER DELEGATES 609

general opinion of the goodness of that government, as well
as of the wisdom and integrity of its governors. I hope,
therefore, for our own sakes, as a part of the people, and for
the sake of our posterity, that we shall act heartily and unani-
mously in recommending this Constitution, wherever our
Influence may extend, and turn our future thoughts and en-
deavours to the means of having it well administered.

On the whole, Sir, I cannot help expressing a wish, that
every member of the Convention who may still have objec-
tions to it, would with me on this occasion doubt a little of his
own infallibility, and, to make manifest our unanimity, put
his name to this Instrument.

[Then the motion was made for adding the last formula,
viz. " Done in convention by the Unanimous Consent," &c. ;
which was agreed to and added accordingly.]

1698. TO ARTHUR ST. CLAIR AND OTHER DELE-
GATES IN CONGRESS1

In Council, Philadelphia, September 20, 1787.

GENTLEMEN : — Enclosed is a letter to General Clinton,
which we send unsealed for your perusal, with the several
papers of intelligence that accompany it. The Council have
thought of sending a few resolute men, authorized to appre-
hend and bring off Franklin and Jenkins ; but if they should

1 Arthur St. Clair (1734-1818) was a delegate to the Continental Congress,
November 2, 1785, till November 28, 1787, and its president in 1787. He
was a grandson of the Earl of Roslyn, and was a brigadier-general in the
Revolutionary War. — ED.

VOL. ix — 2 R

6io THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1787

be on the York side of the line, it might be impracticable,
without the concurrence of that government. You will see
that we have requested the Governor to have a conference
with you on the subject, in which, if it take place, we desire
you would not only discuss what may be proper for the secur-
ing the ringleaders of the sedition, but concert some general
measures for the two States to take, that it may be effectually
and totally suppressed, and that you would report to us the
result of your conference as soon as may be.

P. S. — You will see the propriety and necessity of keep-
ing the proceedings secret, as well as the names of the inform-
ers, and you will return the enclosed papers.

The letter to Governor Clinton which was enclosed was

as follows :

In Council, 22 September, 1787.

SIR : — Your Excellency will see by the papers and letters
of intelligence, which I have the honour of communicating to
you, that there are a number of disorderly people collecting
near the line that divides our two States, who are impatient
of regular government, and seize upon and presume to dispose
of lands contrary to and in defiance of the laws. It has ap-
peared to me by other evidence that their numbers are daily
increasing by vagabonds from all quarters, and that they
expect reinforcements from Shay's late partisans, and pur-
pose defending their proceedings by force of arms. Your
Excellency will be sensible with us of the mischief such a body
of banditti may be capable of occasioning to both our States
if suffered to increase and establish themselves in that coun-
try, the vicinity of the boundary line affording them at present
an imaginary security, since, if pursued by the authority of

1787] TO ST. CLA1R AND OTHER DELEGATES 611

one State, they can easily step over into the others. Your
Excellency's readiness, manifested on other occasions, to aid
the operations of general justice, even in the neighbouring
governments, leaves no room to doubt of your concurring with
us in the measures that may be necessary to defeat the pro-
jects of those people, some of whose leaders are said to be
inhabitants of your State. For the concerting such measures
the council of this government unanimously and earnestly
request your Excellency would be pleased to permit our
delegates in Congress to have a conference with you.
I have the honour to be, etc.,

B. FRANKLIN, president.

In Council, 26 September, 1787.

SIR : — You are to take what number of militia you think
necessary, and proceed with the greatest despatch to Wilkes-
barre, in the County of Luzerne. When there, if you think
it necessary, consult Colonel Pickering on the best method
you can take to apprehend John Franklin, John Jenkins,
Zerah Beach, and John McKinstry. Should you take all
or any of these men prisoners, you are to bring them to Phila-
delphia. If you take Franklin at Wilkesbarre do not pro-
ceed any farther, or run the risk of losing him by endeavouring
to apprehend the others. Council have the utmost reliance
on your secrecy and your prudence in conducting this affair.
If opposed by force, you are to use force, and execute the
warrants at all events.

B. FRANKLIN, President.

To Colonel John Craig.

612 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1787

y

1699. TO MRS. JANE MECOM1 (L. c.)

Philadelphia, Sept. 20, 1787.

DEAR SISTER,

I received your kind Letter of the i6th past, which gave
me the great Pleasure of learning that you were well. I
thought I had before acknowledged the Receipt of yours per
Colonel Sergeant.

The Convention finish'd the iyth Instant. I attended the
Business of it 5 Hours in every Day from the Beginning,
which is something more than four Months. You may judge
from thence, that my Health continues ; some tell me I look
better, and they suppose the daily Exercise of going and
returning from the Statehouse has done me good. You will
see the Constitution we have propos'd in the Papers. The
Forming of it so as to accommodate all the different Interests
and Views was a difficult Task ; and perhaps, after all, it may
not be received with the same Unanimity in the different
States, that the Convention have given the Example of in
delivering it out for their Consideration. We have, however,
done our best, and it must take its chance.

I agree with you perfectly in your disapprobation of war.
Abstracted from the inhumanity of it, I think it wrong in
point of human prudence; for, whatever advantage one
nation would obtain from another, whether it be part of their
territory, the liberty of commerce with them, free passage on
their rivers, &c. &c., it would be much cheaper to purchase
such advantage with ready money than to pay the expense of
acquiring it by war. An army is a devouring monster, and,

1 From an incomplete letter-press copy in L. C. — ED.

1787] TO MRS. JANE MECOM 613

when you have raised it, you have, in order to subsist it, not
only the fair charges of pay, clothing, provisions, arms, and
ammunition, with numberless other contingent and just
charges to answer and satisfy, but you have all the additional
knavish charges of the numerous tribe of contractors to defray,
with those of every other dealer who furnishes the articles
wanted for your army, and takes advantage of that want to
demand exorbitant prices. It seems to me, that, if statesmen
had a little more arithmetic, or were more accustomed to cal-
culation, wars would be much less frequent. I am confident,
that Canada might have been purchased from France for a
tenth part of the money England spent in the conquest of
it. And if, instead of fighting with us for the power of taxing
us, she had kept us in good humour by allowing us to dispose
of our own money, and now and then giving us a little of hers,
by way of donation to colleges, or hospitals, or for cutting
canals, or fortifying ports, she might have easily drawn from
us much more by our occasional voluntary grants and con-
tributions, than ever she could by taxes. Sensible people
will give a bucket or two of water to a dry pump, that they
may afterwards, get from it all they have occasion for. Her
ministry were deficient in that little point of common sense.
And so they spent one hundred millions of her money, and
after all lost what they contended for.

I lament the loss your town has suffered this year by fire.
I sometimes think men do not act like reasonable creatures
when they build for themselves combustible dwellings, in
which they are every day obliged to use fire. In my new
buildings, I have taken a few precautions, not generally used ;
to wit, none of the wooden work of one room communicates
with the wooden work of any other room ; and all the floors,

612 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1787

>
1699. TO MRS. JANE MECOM1 (L. c.)

Philadelphia, Sept. 20, 1787.

DEAR SISTER,

I received your kind Letter of the i6th past, which gave
me the great Pleasure of learning that you were well. I
thought I had before acknowledged the Receipt of yours per
Colonel Sergeant.

The Convention finished the iyth Instant. I attended the
Business of it 5 Hours in every Day from the Beginning,
which is something more than four Months. You may judge
from thence, that my Health continues ; some tell me I look
better, and they suppose the daily Exercise of going and
returning from the Statehouse has done me good. You will
see the Constitution we have propos'd in the Papers. The
Forming of it so as to accommodate all the different Interests
and Views was a difficult Task ; and perhaps, after all, it may
not be received with the same Unanimity in the different
States, that the Convention have given the Example of in
delivering it out for their Consideration. We have, however,
done our best, and it must take its chance.

I agree with you perfectly in your disapprobation of war.
Abstracted from the inhumanity of it, I think it wrong in
point of human prudence; for, whatever advantage one
nation would obtain from another, whether it be part of their
territory, the liberty of commerce with them, free passage on
their rivers, &c. &c., it would be much cheaper to purchase
such advantage with ready money than to pay the expense of
acquiring it by war. An army is a devouring monster, and,

1 From an incomplete letter-press copy in L. C. — ED.

1787] TO MRS. JANE MECOM 613

when you have raised it, you have, in order to subsist it, not
only the fair charges of pay, clothing, provisions, arms, and
ammunition, with numberless other contingent and just
charges to answer and satisfy, but you have all the additional
knavish charges of the numerous tribe of contractors to defray,
with those of every other dealer who furnishes the articles
wanted for your army, and takes advantage of that want to
demand exorbitant prices. It seems to me, that, if statesmen
had a little more arithmetic, or were more accustomed to cal-
culation, wars would be much less frequent. I am confident,
that Canada might have been purchased from France for a
tenth part of the money England spent in the conquest of
it. And if, instead of fighting with us for the power of taxing
us, she had kept us in good humour by allowing us to dispose
of our own money, and now and then giving us a little of hers,
by way of donation to colleges, or hospitals, or for cutting
canals, or fortifying ports, she might have easily drawn from
us much more by our occasional voluntary grants and con-
tributions, than ever she could by taxes. Sensible people
will give a bucket or two of water to a dry pump, that they
may afterwards, get from it all they have occasion for. Her
ministry were deficient in that little point of common sense.
And so they spent one hundred millions of her money, and
after all lost what they contended for.

I lament the loss your town has suffered this year by fire.
I sometimes think men do not act like reasonable creatures
when they build for themselves combustible dwellings, in
which they are every day obliged to use fire. In my new
buildings, I have taken a few precautions, not generally used ;
to wit, none of the wooden work of one room communicates
with the wooden work of any other room ; and all the floors,

614 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1787

and even the steps of the stairs, are plastered close to the
boards, besides the plastering on the laths under the joists.
There are also trap-doors to go out upon the roofs, that one
may go out and wet the shingles in case of a neighbouring fire.
But, indeed, I think the staircases should be stone, and the
floors tiled as in Paris, and the roofs either tiled or slated.

I am much obliged to your friend and neighbour Mr. La-
throp,1 for his kind present, and purpose writing to him. It is
a discourse well written.

I sent you lately a Barrel of Flour, and I blame myself for
not sooner desiring you to lay in your Winter's Wood, and
drawing upon me for it as last Year. But I have been so busy.
To avoid such Neglect in Future, I now make the Direction
general, that you draw on me every Year for the same purpose.

Adieu, my dear Sister, and believe me ever your affectionate

brother,

B. FRANKLIN.

1700. TO ALEXANDER SMALL (L. c.)

Philadelphia, Sept. 28, 1787.

DEAR SIR,

I received your kind Letter of June 6, 86, and I answered it,
tho' long after the Receipt. I do not perceive by your second
Favour of July, 8y,2 that my Answer had then come to hand,
but hope it may since that time.

I have not lost any of the Principles of Public (Economy you
once knew me possess'd of ; but, to get the bad Customs of a

1 John Lathrop, or Lothrop, Boston clergyman, 1740-1816. The present
was a copy of a Discourse before the humane society in Boston. His letter to
Franklin is dated August 30, 1787 (A. P. S.). — ED.

2 Both these letters, June 6, 1786, and July 3, 1787, are in A. P. S.— ED.

1 787] TO ALEXANDER SMALL 615

Country chang'd, and new ones, though better, introduced, it
is necessary first to remove the Prejudices of the People, en-
lighten their Ignorance, and convince them that their Interest
will be promoted by the propos'd Changes ; and this is not the
Work of a Day. Our Legislators are all Land-holders ; and
they are not yet persuaded, that all taxes are finally paid by
the Land. Besides, our Country is so sparsely settled, the
Habitations, particularly in the Back Countries, being per-
haps 5 or 6 Miles distant from each other, that the Time and
Labour of the Collector in going from House to House, and
being oblig'd to call often before he can recover the Tax,
amounts to more than the Tax is worth, and therefore, we have
been forc'd into the Mode of indirect Taxes, i. e. Duties on
Importation of Goods, and Excises.

I have made no Attempt to introduce the Form of Prayer
here, which you and good Mrs. Baldwin do me the Honour to
approve. The things of this World take up too much of my
Time, of which indeed I have too little left, to undertake any
thing like a Reformation in Matters of Religion. When we
can sow good Seed, we should however do it, and wait, when
we can do no better, with Patience Nature's Time, for their
Sprouting. Some lie many years in the Ground, and at length
certain favourable Seasons or Circumstances bring them
forth with vigorous Shoots and plentiful Productions.

Had I been at home as you wish, soon after the Peace,
I might possibly have mitigated some of the Severities against
the Royalists, believing, as I do, that Fear and Error, rather
than Malice, occasion'd their Desertion of their Country's
Cause, and Adoption of the King's. The public Resentment
against them is now so far abated, that none who ask Leave
to return are refus'd, and many of them now live among us

616 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1787

much at their Ease. As to the Restoration of confiscated
Estates, it is an Operation that none of our Politicians have
as yet ventur'd to propose. They are a sort of People, that
love to fortify themselves in their Projects by Precedent. Per-
haps they wait to see your Government restore the forfeited
Estates in Scotland to the Scotch, those in Ireland to the
Irish, and those in England to the Welsh !

I am glad that the distressed Exiles, who remain with you,
have received, or are likely to receive, some compensation for
their Losses, for I commiserate their Situation. It was clearly
incumbent on the King to indemnify those he had seduc'd by
his Proclamations; but it seems not so clearly consistent
with the Wisdom of Parliament to resolve doing it for him.
If some mad King hereafter should think fit, in a Freak, to
make War upon his subjects of Scotland, or upon those of
England, by the help of Scotland and Ireland, (as the Stewarts
did,) may he not encourage Followers by the Precedent of
these Parliamentary Gratuities, and thus set his Subjects to
cutting one another's Throats, first with the Hope of sharing
in Confiscations, and then with that of Compensation in
case of Disappointment? The Council of Brutes in the old
Fable were aware of this. Lest that Fable may perhaps not
have fallen in your way, I enclose a Copy of it.

Your Commercial Treaty with France seems to show a
growing Improvement in the Sentiments of both Nations in
the (Economical Science. All Europe might be a great deal
happier with a little more Understanding. We in America
have lately had a Convention for framing a new Constitution.
Enclos'd I send you the result of their Deliberations. Whether
it will be generally acceptable and carried into Execution is
yet to be seen ; but present Appearances are in its Favour.

1787] TO PROFESSOR LANDRIANI 617

I am always glad to hear from you, and of your Welfare.
I remember with Pleasure the happy Days we have spent
together. Adieu, and believe me ever, my dear Friend,
yours most affectionately,

B. FRANKLIN.

1701. TO PROFESSOR LANDRIANI (L. c.)

Philadelphia, Octr 14. 1787.

SIR

I received by the hand of Mr Gibbs your excellent Disser-
tation dell1 Uplita dei Conduttori elettrici which you have
had the Goodness to send me. I have read it with great
Pleasure. Be pleased to accept my hearty Thanks.

I find upon my Return to this Country that the Number of
Conductors is greatly increased, their Utility having been
made manifest by many instances of their good Effect in
preserving Buildings. Among others, my own House in my
Absence receiv'd a great Stroke which was visible to the
Neighbours, who immediately ran in to see if any Damage
was done, or any Fire commenc'd which might by their
Assistance be extinguish'd. They found nothing disordered,
and the Family only much frighten'd by the Loudness of
the Explosion. On making an Addition to my House last
year the Conductor was taken down to be remov'd, when I
found that the Copper Point which had been nine Inches
long, and in its thickest Part about one third of an Inch
Diameter, had been almost all melted and blown away,
very little of it remaining attach'd to the Iron Rod. So that
at length the Invention has been of some Use to the Inventor,
and afforded an additional Pleasure to that of having seen it

618 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1787

useful to others. Mr Rittenhauss our Astronomer, informs
me, that having inspected with his excellent Telescope many
Conductors that are within his View, he finds that the Points
of a Number of them have also been melted ; and we have
no Instance of any considerable Damage done to any House
that was furnished with a compleat Conductor; and very
few of Damage to any other Houses in the City since Con-
ductors became common.
With great Esteem and Respect I have the honor to be,

Sir,

Your most obedient

& most humble Servant

B. FRANKLIN.

1702. TO GAETANO FILANGIERI (i.e.)

Philada, Oct. 14, 1787.

DEAR SIR : — Believing it may be a Matter of some Curi-
osity to you to know what is doing in this Part of the World
respecting Legislation, I send you inclos'd a Copy of the new
Federal Constitution propos'd by a Convention of the States.

We are so remote from each other, that it is difficult to
keep up a regular Correspondence between us, and it is long
since I had the Pleasure of hearing from you. Some of the
Books you sent me did not come to hand, so that I want of

volume 3d

4th 8

" 5* 8

" 6th . g

to complete what I have,
and if any more Volumes are publish'd of your invaluable

" 7th .... 8J

1787] TO FERDINAND GRAND 619

Work, I should be glad to have 8 of each sent to me. Mr.

Grand, my Banker at Paris, will pay the Bookseller's Bill.

With the highest Esteem, I have the honour to be, sir,

your most obedient Servant,

B. FRANKLIN.

President of the State of Pennsylvania.

1703. TO FERDINAND GRAND (L. c.)

Philad*, Oct. 22, 1787.

DEAR FRIEND: — I received by the last Pacquet your
Favour of Aug* 6, but the Things you mention sent by Madame
Helve'tius, did not come in that Ship, and I wish you to
enquire what became of them.

I send you enclos'd the propos'd new Federal Constitu-
tion for these States. I was engag'd 4 Months of the last
Summer in the convention that form'd it. It is now sent
by Congress to the several States for their Confirmation. If
it succeeds, I do not see why you might not in Europe carry
the Project of good Henry the 4th into Execution, by form-
ing a Federal Union and One Grand Republick of all its
different States and Kingdoms, by means of a like Conven-
tion, for we had many Interests to reconcile.

I hope you and yours are well. I continue so, but am
too full of Business to write by this Pacquet to my other
Friends. I am glad you liked my young Carolinian. I have
recommended another Gentleman of that State to your
Civilities, the Honourable Mr. Charles Pinckney, Member
of Congress, and one of the late Convention. He is a Man
of Fortune, and an excellent Character ; but you will not see

620 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN- [1787

him till next Spring. I am ever, my dear Friend, yours most

affectionately,

B. FRANKLIN.

P. S. I drew on you not long since for 10,000 Livres.

1704. TO DONATIEN LE RAY DE CHAUMONT

(L. C.)
Philad', Oct. 22, 1787

MY DEAR FRIEND: — Your very valuable Son having
desired of me a Certificate of his good Behavior here, which
he thinks may be of some Use to him in an Application for
Employment in Europe, I gave it with great Pleasure, as
being equally conformable to my Sentiments and to Truth
and Justice. It is here enclosed.

I hope the whole amiable Family continue well and happy.
Be pleased to present my affectionate Respects to Madame
de Chaumont, and Love to Made Foucault, to ma Femme,
ma chere Amie, et mon Enfant. Ma Femme me sera grand
Plaisir en m'envoyant les Notes de la Religieuse, mais pas
autant qu'elle m'a souvent donne* en les jouant. I am, my

dear Friend, yours sincerely,

B. FRANKLIN.

1705. TO MRS. JANE MECOM l

Philadelphia, November 4, 1787
DEAR SISTER,

I received a kind letter from you lately, which gave me the
pleasure of being informed that you were well. I am glad

1 First printed by Sparks, Vol. X, p. 325. — ED.

1787] TO MRS. JANE MECOM 621

you have made the provision against the winter, which I
mentioned to you. Your bill is honoured. It is impossible
for me always to guess what you may want, and I hope, there-
fore, that you will never be shy in letting me know wherein
I can help to make your life more comfortable.

It was my intention to decline serving another year as
President, that I might be at liberty to take a trip to Boston
in the spring: but I submit to the unanimous voice of my
country, which has again placed me in the chair. I have
now been upwards of fifty years employed in public offices.
When I informed your good friend Dr. Cooper, that I was
ordered to France, being then seventy years old, and ob-
served, that the public, having as it were eaten my flesh,
seemed now resolved to pick my bones, he replied that he
approved their taste, for that the nearer the bone the sweeter
the meat. I must own, that it is no small pleasure to me,
and I suppose it will give my sister pleasure, that, after such
a long trial of me, I should be elected a third time by my
fellow citizens, without a dissenting vote but my own, to fill
the most honourable post in their power to bestow. This
universal and unbounded confidence of a whole people
flatters my vanity much more than a peerage could do.

"Hung o'er with ribands and stuck round with strings,"

may give nominal, but not real honours.

This family are all well, as I also am, thanks to God. We
join in best wishes for you and yours. And I am ever, my
dear sister, your affectionate brother,

B. FRANKLIN.

622 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1787

1706. TO COMTE DE BUFFON1 (L. c.)

Philadt, Nov. 19, 1787.

DEAR SIR,

I am honoured by your Letter,2 desiring to know by what
Means I am reliev'd in a Disorder, with which you are also
unfortunately afflicted as well as myself. I have try'd all
the noted Prescriptions for diminishing the Stone without
perceiving any good Effect. But observing Temperance in
Eating, avoiding Wine and cyder, and using daily the Dumb
Bell, which exercises the upper Part of the Body without
much moving the Parts in contact with the Stone, I think I
have prevented its Increase.

As the Roughness of the Stone lacerates a little the Neck
of the Bladder, I find, that, when the Urine happens to be
sharp, I have much Pain in making Water and frequent
Urgencies. For Relief under this Circumstance, I take,
going to Bed, the Bigness of a Pigeon's Egg of Jelly of Black-
berries. The Receipt for making it is enclos'd. While I
continue to do this every Night, I am generally easy the day
following, making Water pretty freely, and with long inter-
vals. I wish most sincerely that this simple Remedy may
have the same happy Effect with you. Perhaps Current
Jelly, or the Jelly of Apples or Raspberries, may be equally
serviceable; for I suspect the Virtue of this Jelly may lie
principally in the boiled Sugar, which is in some degree can-
died by the Boiling of the Jelly. Wishing you for your own

1 Georges-Louis le Clerk, Comte de Buff on (1707-1788), the famous
naturalist. — ED.

2 This letter, written July 18, 1787, is in A. P. S. — ED.

1787] TO MRS. JANE MECOM 623

Sake much more Ease, and for the Sake of Mankind many
more years, I remain with the greatest Esteem and Respect,
dear Sir, your affectionate and most obedient Servant,

B. FRANKLIN.

1707. TO MRS. JANE MECOM (L. c.)

Philad%Dec. n, 1787.

DEAR SISTER : — Since I wrote to you last, your Son
Collas * has been here from Carolina, where he kept a Store,
but it has not answered his Expectations. He wanted to
take up Goods on Credit here, but could not obtain any
unless I would recommend it to our Merchants to give it,
which I could not do without making myself liable, and that
I did not incline to do, having no Opinion either of the Honesty
and Punctuality of the People with whom he proposed to
traffick, or of his Skill and Acuteness in Merchandizing.
I write this merely to apologize for any seeming Un kindness
on my part in not so promoting his Views.

You always tell me that you live comfortably ; but I sqme-
times suspect that you may be too unwilling to acquaint me
with any of your Difficulties from an Apprehension of giving
me Pain. I wish you would let me know precisely your Situa-
tion, that I may better proportion my Assistance to your
Wants. Have you any Money at Interest, and what does it
produce ? Or do you do some kind of Business for a Living ?
If you have hazarded any of yourStock in the above-mentioned
trading Project, I am afraid you will have but slender Re-
turns. Lest you should be straitened during the present

1 Son-in-law. — ED.

624 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1787

Winter, I send you on a Corner of this Sheet a Bill of Ex-
change on our Cousin, Tuthill Hubbart, for Fifty Dollars,
which you can cut off and present to him for Payment.

The Barrel of Flour I formerly mentioned to you assent,
was not then sent, thro' the Forgetfulness or Neglect of the
merch* who promis'd to send it. But I am told it is now
gone, and I hope will arrive safe.

I received your late Letter, with one from my dear Friend,
Mrs. Greene, and one from [my] good Niece your Daughter;
all which I have at present mislaid, and therefore cannot
now answer them particularly, but shall as soon as I find
them.

My Love to all our Relations and Friends, and believe me

ever, your affectionate Brother,

B. FRANKLIN.

1708. TO l

Philadelphia, December 15, 1787.

I HOPE the disorders in Brabant and Holland may be

rectified without bloodshed. But I fear the impending war
with the Turks, if not prevented by prudent negotiation, may
in its consequences involve great part of Europe. I confide,
however, that France and England will preserve their present
peace with each other, notwithstanding some contrary appear-
ances; for I think, that they have both of them too much
sense to go to war without an important cause, as well as too
little money at present.

iFrom "The Private Correspondence of Benjamin Franklin" ,
Vol. I, p. 232. — - ED.

1787] TO SAMUEL ELBERT 625

As to the projected conquest of Turkey, I apprehend, that,
if the Emperor and Empress would make some use of arith-
metic, and calculate what annual revenues may be expected
from the country they want, should they acquire it, and then
offer the grand Signior a hundred times that annual revenue,
to be paid down for an amicable purchase of it, it would be
his interest to accept the offer, as well as theirs to make it,
rather than a war for it should take place ; since a war, to
acquire that territory and to retain it, will cost both parties
much more, perhaps ten times more, than such sum of pur-
chase money. But the hope of glory, and the ambition of
princes, are not subject to arithmetical calculation. My
best wishes attend you ; being with great esteem, Sir, &c.

B. FRANKLIN.

1709. TO SAMUEL ELBERT1 (L. c.)

Philad* Dec. 16, 1787.

SIR,

I received by Mr. Dromgoole the Letter your Excell7 did
me the Honour of writing to me the 2d of November past,
and am much concern'd to hear that a War between the State
of Georgia and the Creek Indians was unavoidable.

During the Course of a long Life in which I have made
Observations on public Affairs, it has appear'd to me that
almost every War between the Indians and Whites has been
occasioned by some Injustice of the latter towards the former.
It is indeed extreamly imprudent in us to quarrel with them
for their Lands, as they are generally willing to sell, and sell
such good Bargains : And a War with them is so mischievous

1 Governor of Georgia. — ED.

VOL. IX — 2S

626 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1787

to us, in unsettling frequently a great Part of our Frontier,
& reducing the Inhabitants to Poverty and Distress, and is
besides so expensive that it is much cheaper as well as hon-
ester, to buy their Lands than to take them by Force.

Your State would, I imagine, be much more secure from
the Mischiefs of Indian Wars, if you imitated the Mode of
Settlement in the New England States, which was to grant
their Lands in Townships of about 6 Mile square to 60
Families. These first chose a Spot for their Town, where
they clear'd a Square of perhaps 20 Acres, round which they
fix'd their Houses 15 on a Side all fronting inwards to the
Square; so that they were all in sight of each other. In
the middle of the Square they erected a House for pub-
lick Worship and a School, stockaded round as a Fort for
the reception & Protection of their Women & Children in
Case of Alarm. Behind each House was first a Garden Plot,
then an Orchard, and then a Pasture for a Cow or two, &
behind all outwards their Corn field. Thus situated one
House could not be attacked without its being seen & giving
alarm to the rest, who were ready to run to its Succour.
This discouraged such Attempts. Then they had the Ad-
vantage of giving Schooling to their Children, securing their
Morals by the Influence of Religion, and improving each other
by civil Society & Conversation. In our Way of sparse and
remote Settlements, the People are without these Advantages,
and we are in danger of bringing up a Sett of Savages of our
own Colour.

1787] TO PRINTER OF THE EVENING HERALD 627

1710. TO THE PRINTER OF THE EVENING

HERALD ' (L. c.)

SIR,

The British Newswriters are very assiduous in their en-
deavours to blacken America. Should we not be careful
not to afford them any Assistance by Censures of one another,
especially by Censures not well founded ?

I lately observ'd, in one of your Papers, the Conduct of
the State of Massachusetts reflected on as being inconsistent
and absurd, as well as wicked, for attempting to raise a Tax
by a Stamp Act, and for carrying on the Slave Trade.

The Writer of those Reflections might have considered,
that their principal Objection to the Stamp Tax was, its
being impos'd by a British Parliament, which had no right
to tax them; for otherwise a Tax by Stamps is perhaps to
be levied with as little Inconvenience to those who pay it as
any other that can be invented. Ireland has a Stamp Act
of its own; but, should Britain pretend to impose such a
Tax on the Irish People, they would probably give a general
Opposition to it, and ought not for that to be charged with
Inconsistence.

One or two Merchants in Boston, employing Ships in the
abominable African Trade, may deservedly be condemned,
tho' they do not bring their Slaves home, but sell them in
the West Indies. That State, as such, has never, that I have
heard of, given Encouragement to the diabolical Commerce ;
and there has always been fewer Slaves in the New England
Governments than in any other British Colonies. National

1 The date of this piece is uncertain. — ED.

628 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN* FRANKLIN [1787

Reflections are seldom just, and a whole People should not
be decry 'd for the Crimes of a few Individuals.

Your inserting this may make that brave People some
Amends, and will oblige one of your Customers, who is

A PENNSYLVANIAN.

1711. ON SENDING FELONS TO AMERICA1 (L. c.)

FOR THE PENNSYLVANIA GAZETTE
SIR,

We may all remember the Time when our Mother Country,
as a Mark of her parental Tenderness, emptied her Jails into
our Habitations, "jor the BETTER Peopling" as she express'd
it, " of the Colonies." It is certain that no due Returns have
yet been made for these valuable Consignments. We are
therefore much in her Debt on that Account ; and, as she is
of late clamorous for the Payment of all we owe her, and some
of our Debts are of a kind not so easily discharged, I am for
doing however what is in our Power. It will show our good-
will as to the rest. The Felons she planted among us have
produced such an amazing Increase, that we are now enabled
to make ample Remittance in the same Commodity. And
since the Wheelbarrow Law is not found effectually to reform
them, and many of our Vessels are idle through her Re-
straints on our Trade, why should we not employ those
Vessels in transporting the Felons to Britain?

I was led into this Thought by perusing the Copy of a
Petition to Parliament, which fell lately by Accident into

1 The allusion to the "new colony of Botany Bay " fixes the date of this
article at 1787. — ED.

1787] ON SENDING FELONS TO AMERICA 629

my Hands. It has no Date, but I conjecture from some
Circumstances, that it must have been about the year 1767
or 68. (It seems, if presented, it had no Effect, since the
Act passed.) I imagine it may not be unacceptable to your
Readers, and therefore transcribe it for your paper ; viz.

To the Honourable the Knights, Citizens, and Burgesses of Great Britain, in
Parliament assembled,

The PETITION of B. F., Agent for the Province of Pensilvania;
Most humbly sheweth;

That the Transporting of Felons from England to the Plantations in
America, is, and hath long been, a great Grievance to the said Plantations in
general.

That the said Felons, being landed in America, not only continue their
evil Practices to the Annoyance of his Majesty's good Subjects there, but con-
tribute greatly to corrupt the Morals of the Servants and poorer People
among whom they are mixed.

That many of the said Felons escape from the Servitude to which they
were destined, into other Colonies, where their Condition is not known; and,
wandering at large from one populous Town to another, commit many
Burglaries, Robberies, and Murders, to the great Terror of the People; and
occasioning heavy Charges for apprehending and securing such Felons, and
bringing them to Justice.

That your Petitioner humbly conceives the Easing one Part of the British
Dominions of their Felons, by burthening another Part with the same Felons,
cannot increase the common Happiness of his Majesty's Subjects, and that
therefore the Trouble and Expence of transporting them is upon the whole
altogether useless.

That your petitioner, nevertheless, observes with extream Concern in the
Votes of Friday last, that leave is given to bring in a Bill for extending to
Scotland, the Act made in the 4th Year of the Reign of King George the
First, whereby the aforesaid Grievances are, as he understands, to be greatly
increased by allowing Scotland also to transport its Felons to America.

Your petitioner therefore humbly prays, in behalf of Pensilvania, and the
other Plantations in America, that the House would take the Premises into
Consideration, and in their great Wisdom and Goodness repeal all Acts, and
Clauses of Acts, for transporting of Felons; or, if this may not at present be
done, that they would at least reject the propos'd Bill for extending the said
Acts to Scotland; or, if it be thought lit to allow of such Extension, that then

63o THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1787

the said Extension may be carried further, and the Plantations be also, by an
equitable Clause in the same bill, permitted to transport their Felons to
Scotland.

And your Petitioner, as in Duty bound, shall pray, &c.

This Petition, as I am informed, was not received by the
House, and the Act passed.

On second Thoughts, I am of Opinion, that besides em-
ploying our own Vessels, as above propos'd, every English
Ship arriving in our Ports with Goods for sale, should be
obliged to give Bond, before she is permitted to Trade, en-
gaging that she will carry back to Britain at least one Felon
for every Fifty Tons of her Burthen. Thus we shall not
only discharge sooner our Debts, but furnish our old Friends
with the means of "better Peopling" and with more Expedi-
tion, their promising new Colony of Botany Bay.

I am yours, &c.

A. Z.

1712. TO JOHN ROSS (A.P.S.)

Philadelphia Jan? 21, 1788.
DEAR SIR,

You will perceive by the inclosed Letter which I have
rec? from the Board of Treasury, that I am again called on
for the Vouchers to your Ace1 with Congress which were
produced to Mess. Wharton and Bancroft. Much of this
Transaction, which took place as long ago as the Year 1779,
has escaped my Memory; and I should be much obliged to
you to acquaint me with what you know concerning it;
and particularly whether the Vouchers in question remained
in my Office, were returned to you, or sent with your Acct.

1 788] TO S. OS GOOD AND W. LIVINGSTON- 631

to this Country. I have made Search for them among the
Papers I brought with me from France, but hitherto with-
out Success. — With great Regard

I am Dear Sir,

Your most obed* & most
humble Servant.

[B. FRANKLIN.]

1713. TO SAMUEL OSGOOD AND WALTER

LIVINGSTON ' (A. p. s.)

Jan. 31. 1788.

GENTLEMEN,

Immediately on Receipt of your Letter of the 14"* In-
stant, inclosing Copy of one from Mr. Barclay to you,
I ordered a fresh Search to be made for the Papers you
require respecting the Vouchers of Mr. Ross's Accounts
deposited in my Office when in France ; and after the most
careful & diligent Examination nothing of the kind is found
in my Possession. When I was about to leave that Kingdom
I ordered all Papers relating to the Publick Accounts, and
every thing deposited with me as Consul, (I having acted in
that Capacity before Mr. Barclay's Arrival) to be put into
his Hands; which was done. I cannot therefore but be of
Opinion, that tho' he may not have taken Notice of those
Vouchers, nothing having required his Adverting to them,
yet they will be found with the other Papers of his Office
when they shall arrive in America. I have however en-
quired of Mr. Ross whether he cannot supply the Deficiency,
who informs me that he has an Authenticated Copy which

1 Commissioners of the Treasury. — ED.

632 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1788

he is ready to produce if necessary; but as he sent four
similar Copies by four different Ships, all of which arrived
safe and delivered their respective Cargo's of the Goods to
the Commercial Committee, he is confident some of those
Copies must still exist, and may be found among the Papers
of that Committee. I have the honour to be, with great
Regard, Gentlemen, Your most obedient

& most humble Serv*

B. F.

1714. TO COUNT DE MOUSTIERS 1 (L. c.)
gIR Philada Feb. 10, 1788.

The good News of your Excell7'8 safe Arrival in this Coun-
try, found me confined to my Bed by the Bruises of a Fall
join'd to a painful Disorder, which has continued to harass
me till within these few Days. I seize the first Hour of being
able to hold a Pen, to congratulate you as I do most sincerely,
and to express my Wishes that your Residence among us
may be attended with every Circumstance that can make it
agreable to you. The Services of a feeble old Man rendered
inactive by the Infirmities of Age, are scarcely worth offer-
ing; but if in the Course of your Mission any thing should
occur, in which I might be in any degree useful to your
Affairs, or to those of the best of Kings & the most beloved
of Nations, your Commands will be receiv'd & executed with
Pleasure by him, who is with great Respect, Sir
Your Excellency's most obed*

& most humble Serv*

B. F.

1 Eleonore-Francois-Elie, Comte de Moustiers (1751-1817), Minister Pleni-
potentiary from the Court of France succeeding Luzerne in the United States,
1787-1789. — ED.

1 788] TO JAN INGENHOUSZ 633

1715. TO JAN INGENHOUSZ (A. p. s.)

Philad'Feb. 11, 1788.
MY DEAR OLD FRIEND,

Your Letter of Sept. 28, 1787, came to my hands but about
two Weeks since. It found me very ill with a severe Fit of
the Stone, which follow'd a fall I had on the Stone Steps that
lead into my Garden, whereby I was much bruised, and my
Wrist sprained, so as not to be capable of Writing for several
Weeks.1 I therefore requested Mr. Vaughan to answer it
for me, which he has done in his Letter, that I inclose. I will,
however, add a little, as my Hand is much strengthened,
though I still write with Pain.

All the Books you have sent to me, and to the Philosophical
Society here, have been received. They will be acknowledged
in our next Volume. In the mean time please to accept our
hearty Thanks. There are few Books published in these
Times, that contain so much new and useful Knowledge as
these you have written.

I lament with you the Prospect of a horrid War, which is
likely to engage So great a Part of Mankind. There is little
Good gain'd, and so much Mischief done generally, by Wars,
that I wish the Imprudence of undertaking them was more
evident to princes ; in which case I think they would be less
frequent. If I were Counsellor of the Empress of Russia,
and found that she desired to possess some Part of the Domin-
ions of the Grand Signior, I should advise her to compute

1 And yet he wrote with his own hand a letter on the 3ist of January which
shows no trace of injury or infirmity. Ingenhousz's letter of September 28 is
in A. P. S. — ED.

634 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1788

what the annual Taxes raised from that Territory may amount
to, and make him an Offer of Buying it, at the Rate of Paying
for it Twenty Years Purchase. And if I were his Counsellor,
I should advise him to take the Money, and cede the Domin-
ion of that Territory. For I am of Opinion, that a War to
obtain it will cost her more than that Sum, and the Event
uncertain, and that the Defence of it will cost him as much ;
and, not having embraced the offer, his Loss is double. But
to make & accept such an Offer, these Potentates should be
both of them reasonable Creatures, and free from the Ambi-
tion of Glory, which perhaps is too much to be supposed.

I am glad that Peace is likely to be established in your
native Country, with so little Expence of Blood, tho' it be
done in a manner not agreable to a great Part of the Nation.
If the French had entred with the Prussians, and made it
the Seat of War, the Mischief would have been infinite.

I am truly sorry for the Losses you have met with in your
Attempts to make Profit by Commerce in this Country.
Jonathan Williams was in England and Ireland many
Months before I left France. He has since been in different
Parts of America, collecting his Debts, and now happens to be
here. I have talk'd with him about your Affairs. He tells
me, that your Adventure to Carolina sold well, and that the
Produce was return'd in Indigo, which, if it had arriv'd,
would have render'd good Profit. But the Ship was taken;
and tho' his Correspondent had taken the Prudent Precau-
tion to insure in Charleston, the Place being taken soon after,
and the Insurers ruined, nothing of Value could be recovered,
and that he is himself a Loser of a hundred Guineas by the
Share he took in that unfortunate Adventure. I was mis-
taken when I inform'd you, that his Brother had given him

1 788] TO JAN 1NGENHOUSZ 635

your Certificates. It was only authenticated Copies of them.
These he has now given me. But I have written to John
to deliver the Originals to Mr. Charles Vaughan, now in
Boston, and to settle your account with that Gentleman,
paying to him any Bills that may be in hand, which I make
no doubt he will do.

Such Certificates are low in Value at present, but we hope
and believe they will mend, when our new projected Con-
stitution of Government is established. I lent to the old
Congress ^3000 hard money in Value, and took their Cer-
tificates promising Interest at 6 per cent, but I have receiv'd
no Interest for several Years, and if I were now to sell the
Principal, I could not get more than 35 4d for the Pound
which is but a sixth part. You must not ascribe this to want
of Honesty in our Government, but to want of Ability ; the
War having exhausted the Faculties of the Country. The
Public Funds even of Great Britain sunk by the War the 3
per cents from 95 to 54. We had powerful Armies of Ene-
mies in our Country, ravaging, plundering, & destroying
our Towns, and obstructing our Agriculture, while their
Fleets ruined our Commerce; and this for eight Years together.
I question, whether the public Credit, even of your rich Coun-
try, would have supported itself under similar Treatment.
But we are recovering fast, and, if Peace continues, which
God grant, we shall soon be in flourishing Circumstances.

I did not think I could have written so much. I have
done it, however, a little at a time. I can now only add,
that I remain, with unalterable Esteem and Affection, my
dear Friend, yours most sincerely,

B. FRANKLIN.

636 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1788

1716. TO MICHEL-GUILLAUME JEAN DE CREVE-

CGEUR (L. c.)

Philada, Feb. 16, 1788.

DEAR SIR : — I received from you last Summer and which
indeed I ought to have acknowledg'd sooner a most accept-
able Present of your excellent Work for which Please to re-
ceive my hearty Thanks as well as for the honourable mention
you have been so good as to make of me in it. The favour-
able Sight in which you have so kindly plac'd our Country
will I am persuaded have the good Effect of inducing many
worthy European characters to remove and settle among us,
the Acquisition of whom will be greatly advantageous to us.
I thank you also for your care of the Bundle sent me by Mr.
Short.

Inclos'd is a Letter for our excellent and most amiable
Friend, Mad6 de Houdetot. I wrote to her the beginning
of last Year and believing you then in France, I sent it under
a Cover directed to you. Your arrival here soon after the
Vessel sail'd makes me fear that the Letter may have been long
delay'd if not lost. With great & sincere Esteem I am Sir etc.

B. FRANKLIN.

1717. TO M. LE VEILLARD1 (L. c.)

Philada, Feb* 17, 1788.
MY DEAR FRIEND,

I received your kind letter of June 23d, by Mr. Saugrain,
and it is the last of yours that is come to my hands. As you

1 From an incomplete trans, in L. C. — ED.

1 788] TO M. LE VEILLARD 637

have so much leisure, and love writing, I cannot think you
have been so long silent ; you, who are so good as to love me,
and who know how much pleasure your letters always afford
me. I therefore rather suspect you may probably have
written something too freely concerning public affairs, and
that your letters may be arrested in your postoffice, and your-
self lodged in the Bastille. You see I imagine any thing, how-
ever extravagant, rather than suppose, as your letters too
often do, that my friends forget me.

I find Mr. Saugrain to answer well the good character
you give of him, and shall with pleasure render him any ser-
vices in my power. He is now gone down the Ohio, to recon-
noitre that country.1

I should have proceeded in the history you mention,3 if
I could well have avoided accepting the chair of President
for this third and last year; to which I was again elected
by the unanimous voice of the Council and General Assembly
in November. If I live to see this year expire, I may enjoy
some leisure, which I promise you to employ in the work you
do me the honour to urge so earnestly.

I sent you with my last a copy of the new Constitution pro-
posed for the United States by the late General Convention.
I sent one also to our excellent friend the Duke de la Roche-
foucauld. I attended the business of the Convention faith-

1 Dr. Guillotin, who served with Franklin upon the commission to investi-
gate mesmerism, resolved to remove to America and with a party of twelve to
settle in the neighborhood of Louisville, Ky. Picque and Saugrain went
ahead to investigate the country. Madame Guillotin was a sister of Sau-
grain (whose family were book-sellers). See letter to Guillotin, Oct. 23,
1788. — ED.

* The Memoirs of his own Life, to the continuance of which all his friends,
who knew the importance of such a history, wished him anxiously to apply.
— W. T. F.

638 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1788

fully for four months. Enclosed you have the last speech
I made in it. Six States have already adopted the Constitu-
tion, and there is now little doubt of its being accepted by a
sufficient number to carry it into execution, if not immediately
by the whole. It has, however, met with great opposition
in some States, for we are at present a nation of politicians.
And, though there is a general dread of giving too much
power to our governors, I think we are more in danger from
too little obedience in the governed.

We shall, as you suppose, have imposts on trade, and
custom-houses, not because other nations have them, but
because we cannot at present do without them. We want to
discharge our public debt occasioned by the late war. Direct
taxes are not so easily levied on the scantily settled inhabit-
ants of our wide-extended country ; and what is paid in the
price of merchandise is less felt by the consumer, and less the
cause of complaint. When we are out of debt we may leave
our trade free, for our ordinary charges of government will
not be great.

Where there is a free government, and the people make
their own laws by their representatives, I see no injustice in
their obliging one another to take their own paper money.
It is no more so than compelling a man by law to take his
own note. But it is unjust to pay strangers with such money
against their will. The making of paper money with such
a sanction is however a folly, since, although you may by
law oblige a citizen to take it for his goods, you cannot fix
his prices; and his liberty of rating them as he pleases,
which is the same thing as setting what value he pleases on
your money, defeats your sanction.

I have been concerned to hear of the troubles in the in-

1788] ON THE ABUSE OF THE PRESS 639

ternal government of the country I love ; 1 and hope some good
may come out of them ; and that they may end without mis-
chief.

In your letter to my grandson, you asked some questions
that had an appearance as if you meditated a visit to us.
Nothing in this world would give me greater pleasure, than to
receive and embrace here the whole family ; but it is too great
a happiness to be expected. This family all join with me in
best wishes of every felicity to you and yours ; and I remain
with unalterable and great esteem and affection, my dear
friend, yours most sincerely,

B. FRANKLIN.

1718. TO THE EDITORS OF THE PENNSYLVANIA
GAZETTE (L. c.)

On the Abuse of the Press

MESSRS. HALL AND SELLERS,

I lately heard a remark, that on examination of The Penn-
sylvania Gazette for fifty years, from its commencement, it
appeared, that, during that long period, scarce one libellous
piece had ever appeared in it. This generally chaste conduct
of your paper is much to its reputation ; for it has long been
the opinion of sober, judicious people, that nothing is more
likely to endanger the liberty of the press, than the abuse of
that liberty, by employing it in personal accusation, detrac-
tion, and calumny. The excesses some of our papers have
been guilty of in this particular, have set this State in a bad
light abroad, as appears by the following letter, which I wish

1 France. — ED.

640 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1788

you to publish, not merely to show your own disapprobation
of the practice, but as a caution to others of the profession
throughout the United States. For I have seen a European
newspaper, in which the editor, who had been charged with
frequently calumniating the Americans, justifies himself by
saying, "that he had published nothing disgraceful to us,
which he had not taken from our own printed papers."
I am, &c. A. B.

"New York, March 30, 1788.
"DEAR FRIEND,

" My Gout has at length left me, after five Months' pain-
ful Confinement. It afforded me, however, the Leisure to
read, or hear read, all the Packets of your various News-
papers, which you so kindly sent for my Amusement.

"Mrs. W. has partaken of it; she likes to read the Adver-
tisements; but she remarks some kind of Inconsistency in
the announcing so many Diversions for almost every Even-
ing of the Week, and such Quantities to be sold of expensive
Superfluities, Fineries, and Luxuries just imported, in a
Country, that at the same time fills its Papers with Com-
plaints of Hard Times, and Want of Money. I tell her, that
such Complaints are common to all Times and all Countries,
and were made even in Solomon's Time; when, as we are
told, Silver was as plenty in Jerusalem as the Stones in the
Street ; and yet, even then, there were People who grumbled,
so as to incur this Censure from that knowing Prince. 'Say
not thou that the former Times were better than these; for
thou dost not enquire rightly concerning that matter.1

"But the Inconsistence that strikes me the most is, that
between the Name of your City, Philadelphia, (Brotherly

i ;88] ON THE ABUSE OF THE PRESS 641

Love,) and the Spirit of Rancour, Malice, and Hatred that
breathes in its NewsPapers. For I learn from those Papers,
that your State is divided into Parties, that each Party ascribes
all the public Operations of the other to vicious Motives;
that they do not even suspect one another of the smallest
Degree of Honesty ; that the antifederalists are such, merely
from the Fear of losing Power, Places, or Emoluments, which
they have in Possession or in Expectation ; that the Federal-
ists are a set of Conspirators, who aim at establishing a
Tyranny over the Persons and Property of their Country-
men, and to live in Splendor on the Plunder of the People.
I learn, too, that your Justices of the Peace, tho' chosen by
their Neighbours, make a villainous Trade of their Office, and
promote Discord to augment Fees, and fleece their Electors ;
and that this would not be mended by placing the Choice
in the Executive Council, who, with interested or party Views,
are continually making as improper Appointments; witness
a 'petty Fidler, Sycophant, and Scoundrel,'' appointed Judge
of the Admiralty; 'an old Woman and Fomenter oj Sedition1
to be another of the Judges, and 'a Jeffries' Chief Justice,
&c. &c. ; with ltuuo Harpies1 the Comptroller and Naval
Officers, to prey upon the Merchants and deprive them of
their Property by Force of Arms, &c.

"I am inform'd also by these Papers, that your General
Assembly, tho' the annual choice of the People, shows no
Regard to their Rights, but from sinister Views or Ignorance
makes Laws in direct Violation of the Constitution, to divest
the Inhabitants of their Property and give it to Strangers
and Intruders ; and that the Council, either fearing the Re-
sentment of their Constituents, or plotting to enslave them,
had projected to disarm them, and given Orders for that

VOL. IX — 2T

642 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1788

purpose ; and finally, that your President, the unanimous joint
choice of the Council and Assembly, is 'an old Rogue,1 who
gave his Assent to the federal Constitution merely to avoid
refunding Money he had purloin'd from the United States.
"There is, indeed, a good deal of manifest Inconsistency
in all this, and yet a Stranger, seeing it in your own Prints,
tho' he does not believe it all, may probably believe enough
of it to conclude, that Pennsylvania is peopled by a Set of
the most unprincipled, wicked, rascally, and quarrelsome
Scoundrels upon the Face of the Globe. I have sometimes,
indeed, suspected, that those Papers are the Manufacture of
foreign Enemies among you, who write with a view of dis-
gracing your Country, and making you appear contemptible
and detestable all the World over ; but then I wonder at the
Indiscretion of your Printers in publishing such Writings!
There is, however, one of your Inconsistencies that consoles
me a little, which is, that tho' living, you give one another
the characters of Devils; dead, you are all Angels! It is
delightful, when any of you die, to read what good Husbands,
good Fathers, good Friends, good Citizens, and good Chris-
tians you were, concluding with a Scrap of Poetry that places
you, with certainty, every one in Heaven. So that I think
Pennsylvania a good country to dye in, though a very bad one
to live in"

1719. TO MRS. COLLAS1 (L. c.)

Philada, April 12, 1788.

LOVING COUSIN: — I received some time since a kind
Letter from you which gave me Pleasure. As to my coming

1 A daughter of Mrs. Jane Mecom. — ED.

1788] TO MADAME BRILLON 643

to Boston, which you seem to wish, and I also, I begin to doubt
its being ever accomplish 'd. Such a Journey at my Age
would be attended with much Inconvenience and Hardship,
and might, with the Malady I have be dangerous. At present
I am in my Place, have all my Conveniencies and Comforts
about me, and it seems most prudent for me to stay where
I am and enjoy them, without going abroad to give myself
and Friends a good deal of Trouble, which cannot be com-
pensated by our Pleasure of Meeting, since that will be
balanc'd by the Pain of Parting.

You need not have made any Apology for introducing
Thayer to me. He gave me but little Trouble, and I had the
Pleasure of doing him some good; tho' he is rather an in-
significant Body, and has turn'd to the Papists, who do not
much value the Acquisition, and I suppose we may easily
bear the Loss. My best Wishes attend you, being ever

your affectionate Uncle,

B. FRANKLIN.

1720. TO MADAME BRILLON (L. c.)

Philad», April 19, 1788.

MY DEAR, DEAR FRIEND : — I received by the last Pac-
quet your kind Letter dated in October last. I am glad to
hear that you continue well, with what is left of the amiable
Family, in whose sweet Society I pass'd so many happy
Evenings while I liv'd in Passy. I sympathize with you in
all your Losses and Afflictions, and hope the rest of your
Life will be as tranquil and free from Trouble as it had been
for some Years before we parted.

644 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1788

You have given me Pleasure by informing me of the Wel-
fare and present agreable Circumstances of yourself and
Children; and I am persuaded that your Friendship for me
will render a similar Account of my Situation pleasing to you.
I am in a Country where I have the happiness of being
universally respected and beloved, of which three successive
annual Elections to the Chief Magistracy, in which Elections
the Representatives of the People in Assembly and the
Supreme Council join'd and were unanimous, is the strongest
Proof ; this is a Place of Profit as well as of Honour ; and my
Friends chearfully assist in making the Business as easy to me
as possible. I live in a good House which I built 25 Years
ago, contriv'd to my Mind, and made still more convenient
by an Addition since my Return. A dutiful and affectionate
Daughter, with her Husband and Six Children compose my
Family. The Children are all promising, and even the
youngest, who is but four Years old, contributes to my
Amusement. The eldest, Benjamin, you may remember.
He has finish'd his Studies at our University, and is preparing
to enter into Business as a Printer, the original Occupation
of his Grandfather. Temple, who was likewise with me in
France, is settled about 6 Leagues from me on his Plantation,
which contains about 600 Acres; but when in Town lives
with me. My Rents and Incomes are amply sufficient for
all my present Occasions ; and if no unexpected Misfortunes
happen during the time I have to live, I shall leave a handsome
Estate to be divided among my Relatives. As to my Health,
it continues the same, or rather better than when I left Passy ;
but being now in my 83d Year, I do not expect to continue
much longer a Sojourner in this World, and begin to promise
myself much Gratification of my Curiosity in soon visiting

1788] TO M. LE VEILLARD 645

some other. Wherever I may hereafter travel, be assured,

my dear Friend, that if .... [imperfect].

[B. F.]

1721. TO M. LE VEILLARD (L. c.)

Philadelphia, April 22, 1788.
MY DEAR FRIEND,

I received but a few days since, your favour of November
30th, 1787, in which you continue to urge me to finish the
Memoirs. My three years of service will expire in October,
when a new president must be chosen ; and I had the project
of retiring then to my grandson's estate in New Jersey,
where I might be free from the interruption of visits, in order
to complete that work for your satisfaction ; for in this city
my time is so cut to pieces by friends and strangers, that I
have sometimes envied the prisoners in Bastille. But con-
sidering now the little remnant of life I have left, the accidents
that may happen between this and October, and your earnest
desire, I have come to the resolution to proceed in that work
to-morrow, and continue it daily till finished, which, if my
health permits, may be in the course of the ensuing summer.
As it goes on, I will have a copy made for you, and you may
expect to receive a part by the next packet.

It is very possible, as you suppose, that all the articles of
the proposed new government will not remain unchanged
after the first meeting of the Congress. I am of opinion
with you, that the two chambers were not necessary, and I
disliked some other articles that are in, and wished for some
that are not in the proposed plan. I nevertheless hope it
may be adopted, though I should have nothing to do with

646 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1788

the execution of it, being determined to quit all public busi-
ness with my present employment. At eighty-three one
certainly has a right to ambition repose.

We are not ignorant, that the duties paid at the custom-
house on the importation of foreign goods are finally reim-
bursed by the consumer, but we impose them as the easiest
way of levying a tax from those consumers. If our new
country was as closely inhabited as your old one, we might
without much difficulty collect a land tax, that would be
sufficient for all purposes ; but where farms are at five or six
miles' distance from each other, as they are in a great part of
our country, the going of the collectors from house to house
to demand the taxes, and being obliged to call more than once
for the same tax, makes the trouble of collecting in many
cases exceed the value of the sum collected. Things that are
practicable in one country are not always so in another,
where circumstances differ. Our duties are, however, gen-
erally so small, as to give little temptation to smuggling.
Believe me ever my dear friend, yours most affectionately,

B. FRANKLIN.

1722. TO MADAME HELVETIUS (B. N.)

Philadelphia, April 23, 1788.

I RECEIV'D and read with the greatest Pleasure, my dear
friend, the kind Letter you were so good as to write to me
with your own hand, c'est tout & fait charmante. It rejoiced
me to hear that you continued well with your chores petites
etoiles and that you still have your Friends about you. I often
think of the Happiness I so long enjoy'd in the sweet Society

1788] TO MADAME HELV&TIUS 647

of you and them at Auteuil. When we meet in Paradise,
as I trust we shall, the Pleasure of that Place will be aug-
mented by our Recollection of all the Circumstances of our
Acquaintance here below.

You have made my Daughter very happy by the Things
you sent her. They are much admir'd. I continue as well
as I have been for some Years past, and if I live six Months
longer, I may hope for some Leisure, so as to be able to con-
verse more frequently by Letter with my absent Friends,
having absolutely determin'd to engage no more in any
public Business after my three Years* Service as President
shall expire.

M. Paradise, the Gentleman who will have the Honour
of delivering this Letter, intends to reside some time in Paris,
and acquaints me that he has ordered some Cardinals to be
frequently sent to him from his Estate in Virginia, and that
if any of them get to Paris alive you shall be sure to have one.
He had the Pleasure of seeing you formerly with me at Passy.

Temple is at his Terre, busy with his Agriculture. Ben-
jamin presents his respects. Our best Wishes attend you
and yours most devoutly. I am exceedingly oblig'd to the
good abbe's and M. Cabanis for their Letters. The Guichets
and Nouvette Cometologie entertain'd my Friends and me
very much. I cannot write to them now, but must say with
the Debtor in the Gospel: Have patience with me and I
will pay you all. Adieu, my dear Friend, and believe me
ever, yours most affectionately,

B. FRANKLIN.

648 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1788

1723. TO JOSEPH-IGNACE GUILLOTIN (L. c.)

Philad*, May 4, 1788.

IT is with great Concern that I communicate to you the
Intelligence contained in the enclosed Paper. For tho' the
Name of two of the French Gentlemen are not mentioned,
I have reason to fear they were our two Friends : l I suppose
they informed you in their late Letters, that they were pre-
vented from going down the Ohio last Autumn by the Freez-
ing of the River before their Boat was ready. They were
thereby detain'd at Fort Pitt all Winter; and in their last
Letter to me they acquainted me that the Ice being now gone
they should soon proceed, and desired the Letters coming to
my hands for them, might remain with me till I should hear
from them, and receive Directions where to send them. Your
two last accordingly are still in my Hands. We have as yet
no farther Account of this melancholy Event, and therefore
do not yet know whether the Gentleman said to have escaped
to the Shore, tho' badly wounded, still survives. I hope to
hear that he is recovered. It seems they were unprovided
with Arms to defend themselves. Indeed Travelling on the
Ohio has for some Years past been thought as safe as on any
River in France, so that there was not the least Suspicion of
Danger, many Thousands of People having gone down that
way to the new Settlements at Kentucke. I condole with you
most sincerely on the unfortunate Accident. They were
two young Men of uncommon Knowledge and most amiable
Manners, so that I have scarce ever met with Persons for

1 Picque and Saugrain. See letter to M. le Veillard, February 17, 1788.
— ED.

1788] TO REV. JOHN LATHROP 649

whom I had in so short an Acquaintance so much Esteem
and Affection. Mr Pique deposited in my "Hands" thirty
Louis d'ors and some Silver Spoons and Forks, which will be
delivered to him if living, or to his Representative. I have
the Honour to be with great Regard, Sir

Your most obedient

& most humble Servant
B. FRANKLIN.

1724. TO THE PRINCESS DASHKOW (L. c.)

Philad*, May 7, 1788.

MADAME

It gave me great Pleasure to hear, that your magnanimous
Empress had plac'd you at the Head of your Academy of
Sciences.1 It was doing Honour to Learning. With this
you will receive the second Volume of the Transactions of
our Philosophical Society, who hope it may be favourably
accepted as a Testimony of their Respect for yours. With
great & sincere Esteem & Respect, I am,

Madam

Y. m. o. &c [B. F.]

1725. TO REV. JOHN LATHROP2 (L. c.)

Philad*, May 31, 1788.

REVEREND SIR,
I received your obliging Favour of the 6th Inst * by Mr.

1 At St. Petersburg. — ED.

9 An eminent clergyman of Boston, and for many years a neighbour and
valuable friend of Mrs. Mecom, the sister of Dr. Franklin. — S.
8 In A. P. S. — ED.

650 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1788

Hilliard,1 with whose Conversation I was much pleased,
and would have been glad to have had more of if, it he could
have spar'd it to me ; but the short time of his stay has pre-
vented. You need make no apology for introducing any of
your friends to me. I consider it as doing me Honour, as
well as giving me Pleasure.

I thank you for the pamphlet of the Humane Society. In
return please to accept one of the same kind, which was pub-
lished while I resided in France. If your Society have not
hitherto seen it, it may possibly afford them useful Hints.

It would certainly, as you observe, be a very great Pleasure
to me, if I could once again visit my Native Town, and walk
over the Grounds I used to frequent when a Boy, and where
I enjoyed many of the innocent Pleasures of Youth, which
would be so brought to my Remembrance, and where I
might find some of my old Acquaintance to converse with.
But when I consider how well I am situated here, with every
thing about me, that I can call either necessary or convenient ;
the fatigues and bad accommodations to be met with and
suffered in a land journey, and the unpleasantness of sea
voyages, to one, who, although he has crossed the Atlantic
eight times, and made many smaller trips, does not recollect
his having ever been at sea without taking a firm resolution
never to go to sea again ; and that, if I were arrived in Boston,
I should see but little of it, as I could neither bear walking
nor riding hi a carriage over its pebbled streets ; and, above
all, that I should find very few indeed of my old friends
living, it being now sixty-five years since I left it to settle
here : — all this considered, I say, it seems probable, though

1 A clergyman, and successor to the venerable Dr. Appleton in the
ministry at Cambridge. — ED.

1788] TO REV. JOHN LATHROP 651

not certain, that I shall hardly again visit that beloved place.
But I enjoy the company and conversation of its inhabitants,
when any of them are so good as to visit me; for, besides
their general good sense, which I value, the Boston manner,
turn of phrase, and even tone of voice, and accent in pro-
nunciation, all please, and seem to refresh and revive me.

1 1 have been long impressed with the same sentiments you
so well express, of the growing felicity of mankind, from the
improvements in philosophy, morals, politics, and even the
conveniences of common living, by the invention and acquisi-
tion of new and useful utensils and instruments, that I have
sometimes almost wished it had been my destiny to be born
two or three centuries hence. For invention and improve-
ment are prolific, and beget more of their kind. The present
progress is rapid. Many of great importance, now un-
thought of, will before that period be produced ; and then I
might not only enjoy their advantages, but have my curiosity
gratified in knowing what they are to be. I see a little ab-
surdity in what I have just written, but it is to a friend, who
will wink and let it pass, while I mention one reason more
for such a wish, which is, that, if the art of physic shall be
improved in proportion with other arts, we may then be able
to avoid diseases, and live as long as the patriarchs in Genesis ;
to which I suppose we should make little objection.

I am glad my dear sister has so good and kind a neighbour.
I sometimes suspect she may be backward in acquainting
me with circumstances in which I might be more useful to
her. If any such should occur to your observation, your
mentioning them to me will be a favour I shall be thankful

1 The conclusion of this letter is quoted in a letter from Lathrop to Dr.
Lettsom. See " Life of Lettsom," Vol. II, p. 450. — ED.

652 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1788

for. With great esteem, I have the honour to be, Reverend

B. FRANKLIN.

1726. TO JAMES BOWDOIN1 (L. c.)

Queries and, Conjectures relating to Magnetism and the Theory

of the Earth

Philad' May 31, 1788.

DEAR SIR,

I received your Favours by Messrs. Gore, Hilliard, and Lee,
with whose Conversation I was much pleased, and wished
for more of it ; but their stay with us was too short. When-
ever you recommend any of your Friends to me, you oblige
me.

I want to know whether your Philosophical Society2
receiv'd the second Volume of our Transactions. I sent it,
but never heard of its arriving. If it miscarried, I will send
another. Has your Society among its Books the French
work Sur les Arts et les Metiers? It is voluminous, well
executed, and may be useful in our country. I have be-
queath'd it them in my will; but if they have it already, I
will substitute something else.

Our ancient Correspondence used to have something
Philosophical in it. As you are now more free from public
Cares, and I expect to be so in a few Months, why may we
not resume that kind of Correspondence? Our much re-
gretted Friend Winthrop once made me the Compliment,
that I was good at starting Game for Philosophers; let me
try if I can start a little for you.

1 Read at a meeting of The American Philosophical Society, January 15,
1790. — ED.

2 The American Academy of Arts and Sciences. — ED.

1788] CONJECTURES RELATING TO MAGNETISM 653

Has the question, how came the Earth by its Magnetism,
ever been consider'd ?

Is it likely that Iron Ore immediately existed when this
globe was first form'd ; or may it not rather be suppos'd a
gradual Production of Time?

If the Earth is at present magnetical in virtue of the Masses
of Iron Ore contain'd in it, might not some Ages pass before
it had magnetic polarity?

Since Iron Ore may exist without that Polarity, and by
being plac'd in certain Circumstances may obtain it from
an external Cause, is it not possible that the Earth received
its Magnetism from some such Cause?

In short, may not a magnetic Power exist throughout our
System, perhaps thro' all Systems, so that if Men could make
a Voyage in the Starry Regions, a Compass might be of Use ?
And may not such universal Magnetism, with its uniform
Direction be serviceable in keeping the diurnal Revolution
of a Planet more steady to the same Axis ?

Lastly, as the Poles of Magnets may be changed by the
Presence of stronger Magnets, might not, in ancient Times,
the near Passing of some large Comet, of greater magnetic
Power than this Globe of ours, have been a means of chang-
ing its Poles, and thereby wrecking and deranging its Surface,
placing in different Regions the Effect of centrifugal Force,
so as to raise the Waters of the Sea in some, while they were
depressed in others ?

Let me add another Question or two, not relating indeed
to Magnetism, but, however, to the Theory of the Earth.

Is not the finding of great Quantities of Shells and Bones
of Animals (natural to hot Climates) in the cold ones of our
present World, some proof that its Poles have been changed ?

654 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1788

Is not the Supposition, that the Poles have been changed,
the easiest way of accounting for the Deluge, by getting rid
of the old Difficulty how to dispose of its Waters after it was
over? Since, if the Poles were again to be changed, and
plac'd in the present Equator, the Sea would fall there about
15 Miles in height, and rise as much in the present polar
Regions ; and the Effect would be proportionable, if the new
Poles were plac'd anywhere between the present and the
Equator.

Does not the apparent Wrack of the Surface of this Globe
thrown up into long Ridges of Mountains, with Strata in
various Positions, make it probable, that its internal Mass is
a Fluid ; but a Fluid so dense as to float the heaviest of our
Substances ? Do we know the Limit of Condensation Air is
capable of ? Supposing it to grow denser within the Surface,
in the same Proportion nearly as it does without, at what
Depth may it be equal in Density with Gold ?

Can we easily conceive how the Strata of the Earth could
have been so derang'd, if it had not been a mere shell sup-
ported by a heavier Fluid? Would not such a suppos'd in-
ternal fluid Globe be immediately sensible of a Change in the
Situation of the earth's Axis, alter its Form, and thereby
burst the Shell, and throw up Parts of it above the rest ? As
if we would alter the Position of the Fluid contained in the
Shell of an Egg, and place its longest Diameter where the
shortest now is, the Shell must break; but would be much
harder to break, if the whole internal Substance were as solid
and hard as the Shell.

Might not a Wave, by any means rais'd in this supposed
internal Ocean of extreamly dense Fluid, raise in some
degree, as it passes the present Shell of incumbent Earth,

I788] TO MATHER BYLES 655

and break it in some Places, as in Earthquakes? And may
not the Progress of such Wave, and the Disorders it occasions
among the Solids of the Shell, account for the rumbling
Sound being first heard at a distance, augmenting as it ap-
proaches, and gradually dying away as it proceeds ? A Cir-
cumstance observ'd by the Inhabitants of South America
in their last great Earthquake, that Noise coming from a
Place some Degrees north of Lima, and being trac'd by
enquiry quite down to Buenos Ayres, proceeded regularly
from North to South at the rate of Leagues per

minute, as I was inform'd by a very ingenious Peruvian
whom I met with at Paris.

I am ever, my very dear friend, yours most affectionately,

B. FRANKLIN.

1727. TO MATHER BYLES1 (L. c.)

Philad* June I, 1788.

DEAR OLD FRIEND,

I duly received your kind Letter of May 14, 87.' I was
then busily engag'd in attending our General Convention,
which, added to the ordinary current Business of this Govern-
ment, took up so much of my Time, that I was oblig'd to
postpone answering many Letters of Friends which gave
occasion of mislaying some of them, & among those was
yours, only last Week come again to hand. I think I never
receiv'd that you mention respecting the University of

1 A clergyman of Boston. For some biographical anecdotes respecting
him, see Tudor's " Life of James Otis," pp. 155-160. — S.
3 In A. P. S. — ED.

656 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1788

Aberdeen,1 but the Good will I might show on that Occasion
was not of Importance enough to deserve your repeating the
Acknowledgment. It was in me only paying a Debt;
for I remember with Gratitude, that I owe one of my first
Academical Honours to your Recommendation.

It gives me much Pleasure to understand that my Points
have been of Service in the Protection of you & yours. I
wish for your sake, that Electricity had really prov'd what it
was at first suppos'd to be, a Cure for the Palsy. It is how-
ever happy for you, that, when Old Age and that Malady
have concurr'd to infeeble you, and to disable you for Writing,
you have a Daughter at hand to nurse you with filial Atten-
tion, and to be your Secretary, of which I see she is very
capable, by the Elegance and Correctness of her Writing in
the Letter I am now answering. I too have a Daughter,
who lives with me and is the Comfort of my declining Years,
while my Son is estrang'd from me by the Part he took in the
late War, and keeps aloof, residing in England, whose Cause
he espoused; whereby the old Proverb is exemplified;

" My Son is my Son till he take him a Wife;
But my Daughter's my Daughter all Days of her Life."

I remember you had a little Collection of Curiosities.
Please to honour with a Place in it the inclos'd Medal, which
I got struck in Paris. The Thought was much approv'd by
the Connoisseurs there, and the Engraving well executed.
My best Wishes attend you, being ever your affectionate
Friend & humble Servant,

B. FRANKLIN.

1 " It is long since I had the Pleasure of writing you by Mr. Edward
Church, to thank you for your friendly mention of me in a Letter that I find
was transmitted to the University of Aberdeen, I suspect whether you ever
received it." Byles to Franklin, May 14, 1787. — ED.

1 788] TO M. LE VEILLARD 657

1728. TO M. LE VEILLARD1 (p. c.)

Philadelphia, June 8, 1788.

MY DEAR FRIEND,

I received a few days ago your kind letter of the 3d of
January. The arret in favour of the non-catholiques gives
pleasure here, not only from its present advantages, but as it
is a good step towards general toleration, and to the abolish-
ing in time all party spirit among Christians, and the mis-
chiefs that have so long attended it. Thank God, the world
is growing wiser and wiser ; and as by degrees men are con-
vinced of the folly of wars for religion, for dominion, or for
commerce, they will be happier and happier.

Eight States have now agreed to the proposed new con-
stitution; there remain five who have not yet discussed it;
their appointed times of meeting not being yet arrived. Two
are to meet this month, the rest later. One more agreeing,
it will be carried into execution. Probably some will not agree
at present, but time may bring them in; so that we have
little doubt of it becoming general, perhaps with some cor-
rections. As to your friend's taking a share in the manage-
ment of it, his age and infirmities render him unfit for the
business, as the business would be for him. After the ex-
piration of his presidentship, which will now be in a few
months, he is determined to engage no more in public affairs,
even if required ; but his countrymen will be too reasonable
to require it. You are not so considerate ; you are a hard task-
master. You insist on his writing his lije, already a long work,

1 This letter was sold at Sotheby's, May 12, 1905. I do not know in whose
collection it now is. — ED.

VOL. IX — 2 U

658 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1788

and at the same time would have him continually employed
in augmenting the subject, while the time shortens in which
the work is to be executed. General Washington is the man
that all our eyes are fixed on for President, and what little
influence I may have, is devoted to him. I am, &c.

B. FRANKLIN.

1729. TO DUPONT DE NEMOURS

Philadelphia, June 9, 1788.

SIR,

I have received your favour of December 3ist, with the
extract of a letter, which you wish to have translated and
published here. But seven States having, before it arrived,
ratified the new constitution, and others being daily expected
to do the same, after the fullest discussion in convention, and
in all the public papers, till everybody was tired of the argu-
ment, it seemed too late to propose delay, and especially the
delay that must be occasioned by a revision and correction
of all the separate Constitutions. For it would take at least
a year to convince thirteen States, that the Constitutions
they have practised ever since the Revolution, without observ-
ing any imperfections in them so great as to be worth the
trouble of amendment, are nevertheless so ill formed as to
be unfit for continuation, or to be parts of a federal govern-
ment. And, when they should be so convinced, it would
probably take some years more to make the corrections.

An eighth State has since acceded, and when a ninth is
added, which is now daily expected, the constitution will be
carried into execution. It is probable, however, that, at
the first meeting of the new Congress, various amendments

1788] TO DUPONT DE NEMOURS 659

will be proposed and discussed, when I hope your Ouvrage
sur les Principes et le Bien des Republiques en gtniral, &c.
&c., may be ready to put into their hands ; and such a work
from your hand I am confident, though it may not be entirely
followed, will afford useful hints, and produce advantages
of importance.

But we must not expect, that a new government may be
formed, as a game of chess may be played, by a skilful hand,
without a fault. The players of our game are so many, their
ideas so different, their prejudices so strong and so various,
and their particular interests, independent of the general,
seeming so opposite, that not a move can be made that is
not contested ; the numerous objections confound the under-
standing; the wisest must agree to some unreasonable things,
that reasonable ones of more consequence may be obtained ;
and thus chance has its share in many of the determinations,
so that the play is more like tric-trac with a box of dice.

We are much pleased with the disposition of your govern-
ment to favour our commerce, manifested in the late regle-
ment. You appear to be possessed of a truth, which few
governments are possessed of, that A must take some of B's
produce, otherwise B will not be able to pay for what he would
take of A. But there is one thing wanting to facilitate and
augment our intercourse. It is a dictionary, explaining the
names of different articles of manufacture in the two lan-
guages. When I was in Paris, I received a large order for
a great variety of goods, particularly of the kind called hard
wares, that is, wares of iron and steel; and when I showed
the invoice to your manufacturers, they did not understand
what kind of goods or instruments were meant by the names ;
nor could any English and French dictionary be found to

66o THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [I788

explain them. So I sent to England for one of each sort,
which might serve both as explanation and as a model, the
latter being of importance likewise, since people are prej-
udiced in favour of forms they have been used to, though
perhaps not the best. They cost me twenty-five guineas,
but were lost by the way, and, the peace coming on, the
scheme dropped. It would, however, as I imagine, be well
worth reviving, for our merchants say, we still send to Eng-
land for such goods as we want, because there they under-
stand our orders, and can execute them precisely. With

great and sincere esteem, I am, &c.

B. FRANKLIN.

1730. TO MATHEW CAREY (A. P. s.)

June 10. 1788

SIR

In answer to your Request of this Day, —

I do not recollect ever to have seen a Recommendation of
the kind you propose of any such periodical Compilation.
It seems to me quite a novel Idea, and not likely to be useful
as it might appear to the Public impertinent. They have
now seen the Work carry'd on more than a Year ; They are
competent Judges whether it answers their purpose or their
Expectations. — Such a Work if well executed, recommends
itself, and needs no other Recommendation ; and if not well
executed, will not be help'd by any other, whoever it may
be sign'd by, — As a principal Use of it is to preserve fugitive
Pieces; I think you would do well not to fill any part of it
with Extracts from Collections already made such as the
Philos. Transactions where they are already preserved. I

i ;88] TO MATHEW CAREY 66 1

send you enclosed a Note of the Value of Provisions 34 years
ago in Philad* & Boston, which perhaps may be proper to
be preserved in your Work, and am looking out for others
of more. I was always dispos'd to be serviceable to you, tho*
it seems I was once unlucky.1

[B. F.]

" May it please your excellency,

"With uncommon exertions, and the most indefatigable
application, I have carried on the Museum for nearly a year
and a half — and considering how incredibly small my
capital was, at the commencement, my success has been un-
common yet not so great, as under particular circumstances,
I might have expected, and would probably have met with.
I have now a plan in agitation, which, with your concurrence,
and that of a few other respectable Characters, will, in all
likelihood, insure me that reward to which honest industry,
in a good cause, has so just and undeniable a claim.

"This leads me to the object of the present application.
The favour I so earnestly request, is, to subscribe such a decla-
ration or recommendation of the American Museum, as its
merits may entitle it to ; a form of which I subjoin for your
perusal :

"We the subscribers, having carefully examined the ten-
dency and purpose of the American Museum, published by
Mathew Carey, of Philadelphia, are of opinion, that it is
a very useful work, calculated to disseminate agricultural,
political, and other valuable information, in a degree and
manner hardly attainable without a publication of that kind
— and more especially to preserve various interesting docu-

1 This letter was in reply to the following request in a note from Carey
dated Philadelphia, June 10, 1788. — ED.

662 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1788

ments from oblivion. We therefore cheat-fully recommend
it to the countenance and patronage of the public in general."

" Perhaps this character of the work is too panegyrical.
It is, however, that which I have had from numbers of the
most impartial, intelligent, and well informed gentlemen.
But at all events, I am not scrupulously attached to the man-
ner of expression.

" I hope and trust there is no necessity to make use of many
arguments on this occasion. I have read a declaration of
yours, that your own experience of the difficulties attendant on
beginners, always strongly inclined you in favour of those in
that situation. True, I am not, strictly speaking, a beginner
— but every inducement in favour of that description, exists
with me.

"Your compliance with this request, will be regarded as a
most important obligation, by

" Your excellency's most obedient
" and very humble servant

"MATHEW CAREY."

1731. TO JOHN JAY (A.P.S.)

Philad* June 27. 1788

DEAR SIR,

In arranging some old Papers I lately found the enclos'd
Letter from Mr. Blunt, enclosing Copy of a Certificate of
Commr. Jones in favour of John Jackson. I ought, (tho' so
long delay'd) to send some Answer. Can you inform me
whether any thing has been done for Jackson in consequence
of the Commodore's Promise?

I send you also two other Papers respecting Services for-

1788] TO GEORGE CLINTON , 663

merly done the U. S. by Mr. Limousin of Havre, and M.
Milliet of Lisbon ; for your Consideration ; and to be dispos'd
of as you shall think proper. Please to inform me whether
Dohrman is still in America. With great & sincere Esteem,
I am ever, my dear Friend,

Yours most affectionately

B. FRANKLIN.

1732. TO GEORGE CLINTON1

Philad. July 10, 1788

SIR,

I beg leave once more to introduce to your Excellency,3
the honourable Mr Redick, a Member of the Supreme Execu-
tive Council of the State of Pennsylvania, who is charg'd
by that Council with some important Matters to communicate
to, and consult upon with your Excellency, respecting the
outrageous Conduct of our disorderly People inhabiting near
the Borders of our two States, which if not speedily and effec-
tually repressed, it is apprehended may occasion much Incon-
venience and Mischief. I request your Excellency to give
Mr Redick a favourable Audience, and to afford him your best
Counsels, which will be very obliging to this Government,
and particularly to

Your Excellency's most obedient and most
humble Servant

B FRANKLIN
Presid*.

1 From the original in Charles Roberta's Collection of Autographs, Haver-
ford College, Haverford, Pennsylvania. — ED.
8 He was governor of New York. — ED.

664 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1788

1733. TO BENJAMIN CHAMBERS, AND THE
OTHER GENTLEMEN OF CHAMBERSBURGH

(L. c.)

Philad*, September 20, 1788.

GENTLEMEN : — I received the Letter you did me the honour
of writing to me, respecting what was supposed a new Inven-
tion, the blowing of Furnaces by a Fall of Water. When Mr.
Zantzinger deliver'd me your Letter, I told him that I had
several Books in my Library which describ'd the same Con-
trivance, and I have since shown them to him. They are the
" French Encyclopedia or Dictionary of Arts and Sciences";
Swedenborg's Latin Treatise of Iron Works ; and the French
work "Des Arts et des Metiers," in the Article of Forges.
Those Descriptions are all accompanied with Figures in
Copper Plate, which demonstrate the Invention to be the
same precisely in all its essential Parts ; and in the Accounts
of it, it is said to have been first practised in Italy about 100
Years since ; whence it was brought into France, where it is
now much us'd; thence into Sweden and Germany: and I
remember to have been informed by a Spaniard who was here
forty Years ago, and gave me a Drawing of it, that it was prac-
tis'd in some parts of Mexico, in their Furnaces for smelting
their Silver Ore. This being the case, you see, Gentlemen
that Mr. McClintock cannot properly be recommended to the
Assembly as the Discoverer of something new. It is, how-
ever, not an uncommon thing for ingenious Men in different
Ages, as well as in different Countries, to hit upon the same
Contrivance without knowing or having heard what has been
done by others ; and Mr. McClintock has at least the Merit

1 788] TO THE DUC DE LA ROCHEFOUCAULD 665

of having introduced the Knowledge of this useful Invention
into this Part of America, and of demonstrating by his own
Example its Practicability.
I am, gentlemen, with great Regard, your most obedient

and most humble Servant,

B. FRANKLIN.

1734. TO THE DUC DE LA ROCHEFOUCAULD

(L. C.)
Philada [Oct. 22, 1788]

I received and read with great Pleasure, my dear and much
respected Friend, your Letter of the i2th July. It gave me
a more clear and most satisfactory Ace1 of the present State of
Affairs in your Country than any I have been able to obtain.
You justly suppose they must be interesting to me. I love
France, I have 1000 Reasons for doing so: And whatever
promotes or impedes her Happiness affects me as if she were
my Mother. I hope all will end to the general Advantage.

Having now finish'd my Term of being President, and prom-
ising myself to engage no more in public Business, I hope to
enjoy the small Remains of Life that are allow'd me, in the
Repose I have so long wish'd for. I purpose to so employ
it in compleating the personal History you mention. It is
now brought down to my Fiftieth Year. What is to follow
will be of more important Transactions : But it seems to me
that what is done will be of more general Use to young Readers ;
as exemplifying strongly the Effects of prudent and impru-
dent Conduct in the Commencement of a Life of Business.

Our public Affairs begin to wear a more quiet Aspect. The
Disputes about the Faculty of the new Constitution are sub-

666 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1788

sided. The first Congress will probably mend the principal
ones, & future Congresses the rest. That which you mention
did not pass unnoticed in the Convention. Many, if I remem-
ber right, were for making the President incapable of being
chosen after the first four Years; but a Majority were for
leaving the Election free to chuse whom they pleas'd; and
it was alledged that such Incapability might tend to make
the President less attentive to the duties of his Office, and
to the Interests of the People, than he would be if a second
Choice depended on their good Opinion of them. We are
making Experiments in Politicks ; what Knowledge we shall
gain by them will be more certain, tho' perhaps we may
hazard too much in that Mode of acquiring it.

I thank you much for the Dissertation sur la Nyctalopie.
It was quite a Novelty to me, having never before heard of
such a Malady. One of our most ancient Physicians assures
me ; that tho' he had some knowledge of the Distemper from
his Reading, he never knew an Instance of it in any Part of
North America. Indeed we have no Chalk in this Country,
nor any Soil so white as to dazzle the Eyes when the Sun's
Light is reflected from it. The Dissertation mentions that
there are terres cretacees, &c. Are those terres white ?

Be pleased to make my Respects acceptable to Mad6 la
Duchesse d'Enville, whose many Civilities and Kindnesses
to me when in France, I shall ever remember with Gratitude.
My best Wishes attend you and all that are dear to you. May
I here desire to be remembered kindly to the Marquis de
Condorcet & PAbbe* Roshen? With the greatest & most
sincere Esteem and Respect, I am, ever,

Your obliged & most obedient Servant

B. FRANKLIN.

1 788] TO MADAME LAVOISIER 667

I enclose for your Amusement the only Paper I wrote in the
Controversy.

1735. TO MISS FLAINVILLE (i.e.)

Philad* Oct. 23, 1788
MA CHERE ENFANT

If I could write French as well as you do English, I would
continue in that Language. The Proficiency you have made
astonishes me. I lament with you the Death of that dear
good Woman, Made Dutartre, and am concern'd for the
other Misfortunes you have met with : Do not let them dis-
courage you. You are still young and have many valuable
Talents, and an amiable Disposition proper to procure new
Friends, and you may yet see better Days. M. de Warville
did me a great Pleasure in delivering to me your kind Letter.
He is a most valuable Man, and I hope his Travels among us
will be to his Satisfaction. I have been harassed with Illness
this last Summer, am grown old, near 83, and find myself
very infirm, so that I expect to be soon call'd for ; and you may,
my dear Child, consider this Line as taking Leave, which I
do with sincere Wishes for your Prosperity & Happiness,
being with a very affectionate Regard,

Your loving Papa

B. FRANKLIN.

1736. TO MADAME LAVOISIER1 (L. c.)
Philadelphia, October 23, 1788.

I HAVE a long time been disabled from writing to my dear
friend, by a severe fit of the gout, or I should sooner have

1 The original letter is in the Paris Archives. Madame Lavoisier was a

668 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1788

returned my thanks for her very kind present of the portrait,
which she has herself done me the honour to make of me. It
is allowed by those, who have seen it, to have great merit as
a picture in every respect ; but what particularly endears it
to me is the hand that drew it. Our English enemies, when
they were in possession of this city and my house, made a
prisoner of my portrait, and carried it off with them, leaving
that of its companion, my wife, by itself, a kind of widow.
You have replaced the husband, and the lady seems to smile
as well pleased.

It is true, as you observe, that I enjoy here every thing
that a reasonable mind can desire, a sufficiency of income,
a comfortable habitation of my own building, having all the
conveniences I could imagine; a dutiful and affectionate
daughter to nurse and take care of me, a number of promising
grandchildren, some old friends still remaining to converse
with, and more respect, distinction, and public honours than
I can possibly merit. These are the blessings of God, and
depend on his continued goodness; yet all do not make me
forget Paris, and the nine years' happiness I enjoyed there,
in the sweet society of a people whose conversation is instruc-
tive, whose manners are highly pleasing, and who, above all
the nations of the world, have, in the greatest perfection, the
art of making themselves beloved by strangers. And now,
even in my sleep, I find, that the scenes of all my pleasant
dreams are laid in that city, or in its neighbourhood.

I like much young M. Dupont. He appears a very sensible

daughter of M. Paulze, one of the " farmers general." She was married to
Lavoisier (1743-1 794) in 1771, and after his death upon the revolutionary
scaffold she married Benjamin Thompson, Count Rumford (1753-1814).
— ED.

1788] TO JOSEPH-IGNACE GUILLOTIN 669

and valuable man, and I think his father will have a great deal
of satisfaction in him.

Please to present my thanks to M. Lavoisier for the No-
menclature Chimique he has been so good as to send me, (it
must be a very useful book,) and assure him of my great
and sincere esteem and attachment. My best wishes attend
you both; and I think I cannot wish you and him greater
happiness, than a long continuance of the connexion. With
great regard and affection, I have the honour to be, my dear
friend, &c.

B. FRANKLIN.

1737- TO JOSEPH-IGNACE GUILLOTIN1

Philad' Oct. 23, 1788.
SIR

I received your Letter of July i. with its Duplicate.2
I lament with you most sincerely the loss of poor Mr. Pique.
The Money he deposited in my Hands was Thirty Louis
d'ors, which I have delivered to Mr. Saugrain, as you
will see by his Receipt enclos'd. No one has hitherto
demanded of me the Converts d' argent; but I shall deliver
them to whoever produces a proper Authority to receive them.
I apprehend there is some Mistake in the Name you men-
tion, and that they were not for a Mr. John Barclay : But

1 From the original in the possession of the Chicago Historical Society.
Guillotin (1738-1814) was a notable physician, professor of anatomy, physi-
ology, and pathology in Paris. He assisted Franklin and Lavoisier in prepar-
ing the report of the Academy of Sciences upon the investigation of Mesmer-
ism. See Introduction, Vol. I, p. 115, and letter to M. le Veillard, Feb. 17,
1 788. — ED.

2 In A. P. S. — ED.

670 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1788

M. Darcet l can set the matter right. Mr. Pique's Death hap-
pening in a Wilderness Country where there were no settled
Inhabitants it is not possible to obtain such a thing as an
Extrait mortuare. M. Saugrain, on whose safe Return I
congratulate you, will supply that Deficiency by his Testi-
mony taken with you. With great Esteem, I am, Sir,
Your most obedient & most

humble Servant

B. FRANKLIN.

1738. TO JAN INGENHOUSZ2

Philadelphia, October 24, 1788.

. . . You have always been kind enough to interest your-
self in what relates to my health. I ought therefore to
acquaint you with what appears to me something curious
respecting it. You may remember the cutaneous malady,
I formerly complained of, and for which you and Dr. Pringle
favoured me with prescriptions and advice. It vexed me
near fourteen years, and was, the beginning of this year, as
bad as ever, covering almost my whole body, except my face
and hands ; when a fit of the gout came on, without very much
pain, but a swelling in both feet, which at last appeared also
in both knees, and then in my hands. As these swellings in-
creased and extended, the other malady diminished, and at
length disappeared entirely. Those swellings have some time
since begun to fall, and are now almost gone; perhaps the

1 M. d'Arcet, member of the Academy of Sciences and a professor of
Chemistry, was a member of the Commission to investigate Mesmerism. — ED.

2 From "The Private Correspondence of Benjamin Franklin" ,
Vol. I, p. 242. — ED.

I ;88] TO DUPONT DE NEMOURS 671

cutaneous disease may return, or perhaps it is worn out.
I may hereafter let you know what happens. I am on the
whole much weaker than when it began to leave me. But
possibly that may be the effect of age, for I am now near
eighty-three, the age of commencing decrepitude.

I grieve at the wars Europe is engaged in, and wish they
were ended ; for I fear even the victors will be losers. I am
ever, my dear friend, yours most affectionately,

B. FRANKLIN.

P. S. Our public affairs are drawing towards a settle-
ment. I have served out the three years' term of my presi-
dentship, limited by the Constitution; and, being determined
to engage no more in public business, I hope, if health per-
mits, to be a better correspondent. We have no philo-
sophical news here at present, except that a boat moved by
a steam engine rows itself against tide in our river, and it is
apprehended the construction may be so simplified and im-
proved as to become generally useful.1

1739. TO DUPONT DE NEMOURS (i.e.)

Philad* Oct. 24, 1788
DEAR SIR,

I think I mentioned to you in my last the Utility of form-
ing a little Dictionary of the Terms by which the different
Articles of Manufacture are designated in our two Languages.
Such a Dictionary would in my Opinion greatly facilitate the
Correspondence and Commerce between the two Countries.
At present if one of our Merchants should send an Invoice

1 Alluding to Fitch's steamboat. — ED.

672 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1788

to France for a Variety of Goods he formerly had from Eng-
land, the Terms he would use must be unintelligible. This I
experienced when at Paris. The Congress sent me an Order
for a great Quantity of Merchandize, I show'd the Invoice,
but it was not understood and I could not explain it. At
length I took the Resolution of sending to England for one of
each Article, which would not only explain what was wanted,
but serve as a Model for your Workmen to imitate ; as People
accustomed to Forms of Tools &c. do not like those that are
different tho' perhaps better. I enclose a Copy of the Par-
ticulars sent for. They were purchased accordingly and sent
by way of Ostend : But unfortunately a Package containing
one half of them, was unaccountably lost between that Place
and Paris ; and the subsequent long Delay in Expectation of
Recovering that Package, which was never done, prevented
the Execution of the Scheme. I would now recommend it
to your Consideration, whether it would not be well for your
Government to send for those Models, put them into the Hands
of your Workmen, and then acquaint us with the French
Names for them. Those purchased for me by the enclos'd
Invoice, cost but 25 Guineas. I am persuaded that many
of them might be manufactur'd cheaper in France than
they are in England, and as Britain lays so many Restraints
on our Trade, we should chuse rather to supply ourselves
from you.

Our Disputes about the New Constitution are almost sub-
sided, and we are proceeding fast towards good Order.
I hope all the late Differences hi Opinion on public Affairs
will end well, with you as well as with us. With great
& sincere Esteem, I am, Sir,

Your most obedient humble Servant

B. FRANKLIN.

i ;88] TO M. LE VEILLARD 673

1740. TO M. LE VEILLARD

Philadelphia, October 24, 1788.

MY DEAR FRIEND,

I have lately received your two kind letters of June i8th
and August 6th. I do not find that I ever received those
you mention of the i5th September.

I have been much afflicted the last summer with a long-
continued fit of the gout, which I am not quite clear of, though
much better; my other malady is not augmented. I have
lately made great progress in the work you so urgently de-
mand, and have come as far as my fiftieth year. Being now
free from public business, as my term in the presidentship
is expired, and resolving to engage in no other public employ-
ment, I expect to have it finished in about two months, if
illness or some unforeseen interruption does not prevent. I
do not therefore send a part at this time, thinking it better
to retain the whole till I can view it all together, and make the
proper corrections.

I am much concerned to hear the broils in your country,
but hope they will lead to its advantage.

When this fermentation is over and the troubling parts sub-
sided, the wine will be fine and good, and cheer the hearts of
those who drink it.

Our affairs mend daily and are getting into good order very
fast. Never was any measure so thoroughly discussed as our
proposed new Constitution. Many objections were made to
it in the public papers, and answers to these objections.
Much party heat there was, and some violent personal
abuse. I kept out of the dispute, and wrote only one

VOL. IX — 2 X

674 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1788

little paper on the occasion which I enclose. You seem to me
to be so apprehensive about our President's being perpetual.
Neither he nor we have any such intention. What danger
there may be of such an event we are all aware of, and shall
take care effectually to prevent it. The choice is from four
years to four years ; the appointments will be small ; thus we
may change our President if we don't like his conduct, and he
will have less inducement to struggle for a new election. As
to the two chambers, I am of your opinion that one alone
would be better; but, my dear friend, nothing in human
affairs and schemes is perfect ; and perhaps that is the case of
our opinions.

It must have been a terrible tempest that devastated such
an extent of country. I have sometimes thought that it
might be well to establish an office of insurance for farms
against the damage that may occur to them from storms,
blight, insects, etc. A small sum paid by a number would
repair such losses and prevent much poverty and dis-
tress.

Our adventurous merchants are hitherto successful in the
East India trade. Perhaps it would be better for us if we used
none of the commodities of those countries, but since we do
use them, it is an advantage that we have them cheaper than
when they come through Britain. As to the other merchan-
dise she formerly supplied us with, our demand is daily
diminishing. Our people are more and more sensible of the
mischievous consequences of drinking rum; the leaders of
several religious sects have warned their people against it, and
the consumption has this last year been less by one third.
This will affect her islands. And the restraints she has laid
on our trade have contributed to raise a spirit of industry

1788] TO BENJAMIN VAUGHAN 675

in families, who now manufacture more than ever for them-
selves; that must lessen greatly the importation.

Embrace for me bien tendrement your good dame and
children. With sincere esteem and hearty attachment, I am
ever, my dear friend, yours most affectionately,

B. FRANKLIN.

P. S. The wine is arriv'd, but it was not well secured or
bottled. One of the casks had leaked a great deal, and the
case we have opened had two thirds of the bottles empty or
broken. Temple is in the country; he has received your
letters, but does not know of this opportunity.

1741. TO BENJAMIN VAUGHAN1

Philadelphia, October 24, 1788.

. . . HAVING now finished my term in the Presidentship,
and resolving to engage no more in public affairs, I hope to
be a better correspondent for the little time I have to live. I
am recovering from a long-continued gout, and am diligently
employed in writing the History of my Life, to the doing of
which the persuasions contained in your letter of January 3ist,
1783, have not a little contributed. I am now in the year
1756, just before I was sent to England. To shorten the
work, as well as for other reasons, I omit all facts and trans-
actions, that may not have a tendency to benefit the young
reader, by showing him from my example, and my success in
emerging from poverty, and acquiring some degree of wealth,

1 From "The Private Correspondence of Benjamin Franklin" ,
Vol. I, p. 243. -ED.

676 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1788

power, and reputation, the advantages of certain modes of
conduct which I observed, and of avoiding the errors which
were prejudicial to me. If a writer can judge properly of
his own work, I fancy, on reading over what is already done,
that the book will be found entertaining, interesting, and use-
ful, more so than I expected when I began it. If my present
state of health continues, I hope to finish it this winter. When
done, you shall have a manuscript copy of it, that I may
obtain from your judgment and friendship such remarks, as
may contribute to its improvement.

The violence of our party debates about the new Constitu-
tion seems much abated, indeed almost extinct, and we are
getting fast into good order. I kept out of those disputes
pretty well, having wrote only one little piece, which I send
you enclosed.

I regret the immense quantity of misery brought upon man-
kind by this Turkish war ; and I am afraid the King of Swe-
den may burn his fingers by attacking Russia. When will
princes learn arithmetic enough to calculate, if they want
pieces of one another's territory, how much cheaper it would
be to buy them, than to make war for them, even though they
were to give a hundred years' purchase ? But, if glory cannot
be valued, and therefore the wars for it cannot be subject to
arithmetical calculation so as to show their advantage or dis-
advantage, at least wars for trade, which have gain for their
object, may be proper subjects for such computation ; and a
trading nation, as well as a single trader, ought to calculate
the probabilities of profit and loss, before engaging in any con-
siderable adventure. This however nations seldom do, and
we have had frequent instances of their spending more money
in wars for acquiring or securing branches of commerce, than

1788] TO FERDINAND GRAND 677

a hundred years' profit or the full enjoyment of them can com-
pensate.

Remember me affectionately to good Dr. Price, and to the
honest heretic, Dr. Priestly. I do not call him honest by
way of distinction ; for I think all the heretics I have known
have been virtuous men. They have the virtue of fortitude,
or they would not venture to own their heresy ; and they can-
not afford to be deficient in any of the other virtues, as that
would give advantage to their many enemies ; and they have
not, like orthodox sinners, such a number of friends to excuse
or justify them. Do not, however, mistake me. It is not to
my good friend's heresy that I impute his honesty. On the
contrary, it is his honesty that has brought upon him the
character of heretic. I am ever, my dear friend, yours
sincerely, B. FRANKLIN.

1742. TO FERDINAND GRAND1 (p. c.)

Philad* Oct. 24, 1788
MY DEAR FRIEND

The last Letter I have been f avour'd with from you is of the
5th of May. But I had the Pleasure of hearing of your Wel-
fare and that of the good Family ; of a later Date by your
Letter to my Grandson. I sometime ago receiv'd from a
Mr. Ross the Sum you drew for upon him, with which you will
therefore charge my Account. And I drew upon you in
August last for Ten Thousand Livres in favour of Mas — rie
and Company and also for Seventy-five Pounds Sterling in
favour of Zantzinger to supply the Bills for the same Sum of
the preceding Year which came back protested.

1 From the original in the possession of Mr. Joseph Sabin. — ED.

678 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1788

I congratulate you on the Addition to your Family. I hope
your young Brood will, like mine, be a Comfort to you in your
old Age. Our public Affairs are getting into good Order.
I hope yours are in the same way.

With sincere Esteem and Affection, I am

Ever yours
B. FRANKLIN.

P. S. In the heart of our Debates on the new Constitution
I wrote the enclos'd Paper. It is the only one I wrote on the
Subject. It was said to have had some good Effect. If I
shall be capable of remembering anything the Remembrance
of your Friendship will be retained as having made too deep
an Impression to be obliterated, and will ever as it always has
done Afford me infinite Pleasure.

Adieu, Adieu,

B. FRANKLIN.

1743. TO MADAME HELVETIUS (L. c.)

Philad6, Oct. 25, 88

JE ne peux pas laisser partir cette Occasion, ma chere
Amie, sans vous dire que je vous aime toujours, & que je ne
porte bien. Je pense continuellement des Plaisirs que j'ai
joui dans la douce Socie'te' d'Auteuil. Et souvent dans mes
Songes, je dejeune avec vous, je me place au cote* de vous sur
une de votre mille Sofas, ou je promene avec vous dans votre
belle jardin. Dites, si. v. p. a Messieurs vos bons Abbe*,
qu'etant actuellement libre des Affaires publiques, j'espere de
devenir meilleur Correspondant, & que je les e*crivai bientdt
tous au long. B. F.

1788] TO DON DIEGO GARDOQUI 679

1744. TO JEAN-BAPTISTE LE ROY (L. c.)

Philad*, Oct. 25, 1788

MY DEAR FRIEND : — Your kind Letter of the 6th of May,
after some Delay by the Way, is come safe to Hand, with the
Memoirs, and elegant Prints of your projected Hospital,
which I shall dispose of as you direct. It may in time to
come be useful here. I receiv'd, also, the Volume of Academy
Memoirs, and thank you for your Care in sending them.

I am now in Possession of the Repose I have so long wish'd
for, having finish'd the third Year of the Presidentship, the
Term limited by our Constitution, and resolving to engage
no more in public Business; my Enjoyment of that Repose
can, however, be but short, as I am now near 83.

We have no philosophical News here at present, except that
a large Boat row'd by the force of Steam is now exercis'd
upon our River, stems the Current, and seems to promise being
useful when the Machinery can be more simplified and the
Expence reduced.

I am ever, my dear Friend, yours most affectionately,

B. FRANKLIN.

1745. TO DON DIEGO GARDOQUI1 (L. c.)

Philad", Oct. 26, 1788.

SIR : — Messrs. Henry Pawling and Greenberry Dawson
one of whom will have the honour of presenting this to the
hand of your Excellency, are projecting a Voyage from the

1 Minister from the Court of Spain. — ED.

68o THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1788

Ohio Settlements with the Produce of that Country, to be
sold at New Orleans. I know not how far the Laws existing
there admit of such Commerce ; But if it is allowable, I would
then beg leave to request that your ExcelF would be so good
as to give them your Counsels with a Line of Protection. And
as they are here esteemed Persons of honest Principles, who
have good Characters, I am persuaded they will not forfeit
them and show themselves unworthy of your Excellency's
Favour by any contraband or illegal Practices.

With great and sincere Esteem and Respect, I am, Sir,
your Excellency's most obedient and most humble Servant,

B. FRANKLIN.

1746. TO JOSEPH ELAM1 (A.P.S.)
Philad*, Nov. 10, 1788.

SIR : — I received your note of the 8th instant, and being
now, as you observe, retired to a private station, I hope to
enjoy the repose appertaining to it. I cannot think, there-
fore of calling, as you propose, you and your accusers before
me, to discuss differences which I have no authority to judge
of or to determine. I can only give you my friendly advice,
which is to behave peaceable and respectfully to the religious
society you profess to be connected with, especially in their
public assemblies; in which case I am persuaded you may
quietly enjoy "that liberty of a freeholder and citizen" which
you desire, without receiving from them the smallest interrup-
tion. By giving me no further trouble with your quarrels,
you will oblige your well-wisher, B FRANKLIN

1 A Virginian, mentally unbalanced, who from eccentric behaviour in
Philadelphia was placed by the Quakers in a hospital. — ED.

i;88] TO THE DUC DE LA ROCHEFOUCAULD 681

1747. TO THE DUC DE LA ROCHEFOUCAULD

(L. C.)

Philadelphia, Nov. 13, 1788.
DEAR FRIEND,

As the Bearer Mr. Sentris is not acquainted with our Friend
Mr. Le Veillard, I take the Liberty of enclosing for him, under
your Cover, the Memoirs which he has so long & earnestly
demanded of me. I think your Character will be a Protec-
tion to them, and that under it they will be more likely of
getting safe to hand. I send also my Paper on the American
Debts, which, if I am not mistaken, you desired to see.

I am not without my Doubts concerning the Memoirs,
whether it would be proper to publish them, or not, at least
during my Life time. And I am persuaded there are many
Things that would, in Case of Publication, be best omitted ;
I therefore request it most earnestly of you, my dear Friend,
that you would examine them carefully & critically, with Mr.
Le Veillard, and give me your candid & friendly Advice there-
upon, as soon as you can conveniently. I should not venture
to make this Request but that I hope your public Affairs,
which must have taken up much of your Time, are now
settled : I sincerely hope to the mutual Advantage of both
King and Nation.

My best Wishes attend you and your amiable Family, and
I beg you to believe that I am ever, with sincere Respect &
Affection,

Dear Sir,
Your most obed* and humb* Serv*.

B. FRANKLIN.

682 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1788

1748. TO FRANCIS CHILDS (L. c.)

Philada, Nov. 19. 1788.

SIR: — When you were here in April last you promis'd
me the Payment of one hundred Dollars in June following,
which has not been sent to me, and therefore I have now
drawn upon you for the same, and having present Occasion
for Money, I depend on your honouring my Draft. I am sir

your humble Servant,

B. FRANKLIN.

1749. TO MRS. ELIZABETH PARTRIDGE (L. c.)

Philada, Nov. 25, 1788.

MY DEAR CHILD : — I received your kind Letter of the
1 2th Inst. inclosing one for Mr. Philip Vanhorn, Physician in
Philadelphia, which you desire me to deliver, and to solicit
the Forgiveness of his Daughter. I immediately made En-
quiry for him, as to be instrumental in so charitable a Work,
and in concurrence with you, would have given me great Pleas-
ure, but I am assured by our oldest Inhabitants, who have
had most Acquaintance and best Opportunities of knowing
their fellow- Citizens, particularly some of our Physicians,
that no Physician or other Person of that Name has ever been
a Resident here ; so that there must have been some Mistake
in the Information that has been given you, if, indeed the
whole Story is not an Imposition.

You kindly enquire after my Health. I have not, of late,
much reason to boast of it. People that will live a long Life

1788] TO MRS. ELIZABETH PARTRIDGE 683

and drink to the Bottom of the Cup must expect to meet some
of the Dregs. However, when I consider how many more
terrible Maladies the human Body is liable to, I think my-
self well off that I have only three incurable ones : the Gout,
the Stone, and Old Age ; and, those notwithstanding, I enjoy
many comfortable Intervals, in which I forget all my Ills,
and amuse myself in Reading or Writing, or in Conversation
with Friends, joking, laughing, and telling merry Stories, as
when you first knew me, a young Man about Fifty.

My Children and Grandchildren, the Baches, are all well,
and pleased with your Remembrance of them. They are my
Family, living in my House. And we have lately the Addition
of a little good-natured Girl, whom I begin to love as well as
the rest.

You tell me our poor Friend Ben Kent is gone ; 1 1 hope to
the Regions of the Blessed, or at least to some Place where
Souls are prepared for those Regions. I found my Hope on
this, that tho' not so orthodox as you and I, he was an honest
Man, and had his Virtues. If he had any Hypocrisy it was
of that inverted kind, with which a Man is not so bad as he
seems to be. And with regard to future Bliss I cannot help
imagining, that Multitudes of the zealously Orthodox of differ-
ent Sects, who at the last Day may flock together, in hopes of
seeing [mutilated] damn'd, will be disappointed, and oblig'd
to rest content with their own Salvation. You have no
Occasion to apoligize for your former Letter. It was, as all

1 " Our Friend Mf Benjamin Kent has taken His departure but for what
Land is uncertain He thought He should be one of the Happy Few that
escaped Sloping at Purgatory I wish he may not be Mistaken but have
arrived safe at the FJisian Fields." Elizabeth Partridge to Franklin, Novem-
ber 12, 1788. — ED.

684 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1788

yours are, very well written. That which it enclos'd for your
Cousin came too late, he being sailed.

By one of the Accidents which War occasions, all my Books
containing Copies of my Letters were lost. There were
Eight Volumes of them, and I have been able to recover only
two. Those are of later Date than the Transaction you men-
tion, and therefore can contain nothing relating to it. If the
Letter you want a Copy of was one in which I aim'd at consol-
ing my Brother's Friends, by a Comparison drawn from a
Party of Pleasure intended into the Country, where we were all
to meet, tho' the Chair of one being soonest ready he set out
before the rest ; I say if this was the Letter, I fancy you may
possibly find it in Boston, as I remember Dr. Biles once wrote
me that many Copies had been taken of it. I, too, should have
been glad to have seen that again, among others I had written
to him and you. But you inform me they were eaten by the
Mice. Poor little innocent Creatures, I am sorry they had
no better Food. But since they like my Letters, here is an-
other Treat for them.

Adieu, ma chere Enfant, and believe me [mutilated]
your affectionate Uncle,

B. FRANKLIN.

1750. TO MRS. JANE MECOM 1

Philadelphia, Nov. 26, 1788.
MY DEAR SISTER,

I received your kind letter of the nth instant. The two
former ones you mention, I had answered, though it seems

1 Printed in part in " The Private Correspondence of Benjamin Franklin "
(i8i8),Vol.I,p. 245. — ED.

1788] TO MRS. JANE MECOM 685

the answer had not reached you. If it has finally miscarried,
I will look for the letters, and answer them again.

I am sorry you should suffer so much uneasiness with tears
and apprehensions about my health. There are in life real
evils enough, and it is a folly to afflict ourselves with imaginary
ones ; and it is time enough when the real ones arrive. I see
by the papers that to-morrow is your thanksgiving day. The
flour will arrive too late for your plum puddings, for I find it
went from hence but a few days since. I hope, however, it
will be with you before the winter shuts up your harbour.

I never see any Boston newspapers. You mention there
being often something in them to do me honour. I am
obliged to them. On the other hand, some of our papers here
are endeavouring to disgrace me. I take no notice. My
friends defend me. I have long been accustomed to receive
more blame, as well as more praise, than I have deserved. It
is the lot of every public man, and I leave one account to
balance the other.

As you observe, there was no swearing in the story of the
poker, when I told it. The late new dresser of it was,
probably, the same, or perhaps akin to him, who, in relating
a dispute that happened between Queen Anne and the Arch-
bishop of Canterbury, concerning a vacant mitre, which the
Queen was for bestowing on a person the Archbishop thought
unworthy, made both the Queen and the Archbishop swear
three or four thumping oaths in every sentence of the dis-
cussion, and the Archbishop at last gained his point. One
present at this tale, being surprised, said, "But did the
Queen and the Archbishop swear so at one another?" "O
no, no," says the relator ; " that is only my way of telling the
story."

686 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1788

This family is all well at present, and join in love to you
and yours, with your affectionate brother,

B. FRANKLIN.

1751. TO CYRUS GRIFFIN1

Philadelphia, November 29, 1788.

SIR,

When I had the honour of being the Minister of the United
States at the court of France, Mr. Barclay, arriving there,
brought me the following resolution of Congress.

" Resolved, that a commissioner be appointed by Congress with full power
and authority to liquidate, and. finally to settle, the accounts of all the servants
of the United States, who have been intrusted with the expenditure of public
money in Europe, and to commence and prosecute such suits, causes, and
actions as may be necessary for that purpose, or for the recovery of any prop-
erty of the said United States in the hands of any person, or persons, whatso-
ever.

" That the said commissioner be authorized to appoint one or more clerks,
with such allowance as he may think reasonable.

" That the said commissioner and clerks, respectively, take an oath before
some person duly authorized to administer an oath, faithfully to execute the
trust reposed in them respectively.

*' Congress proceeded to the election of a commissioner, and, ballots being
taken, Mr. T. Barclay was elected."

In pursuance of this resolution, and as soon as Mr. Barclay
was at leisure from more pressing business, I rendered to
him all my accounts, which he examined, and stated methodi-
cally. By this statement he found a balance due me on the
4th of May, 1785, of 7,533 livres, 19 sols, 3 den., which I
accordingly received of the Congress banker; the difference
between my statement and his being only seven sols, which

1 President of Congress. Elected January 22, 1788. Printed from Sparks,
Vol. X, p. 375. — ED.

I ;88] TO CYRUS GRIFFIN 687

by mistake I had overcharged ; about three pence half penny
sterling.

At my request, however, the accounts were left open for
the consideration of Congress, and not finally settled, there
being some articles on which I desired their judgment, and
having some equitable demands, as I thought them, for extra
services, which he had not conceived himself empowered to
allow, and therefore I did not put them in my account. He
transmitted the accounts to Congress, and had advice of their
being received. On my arrival at Philadelphia, one of the
first things I did was to despatch my grandson, William T.
Franklin, to New York, to obtain a final settlement of those
accounts; he, having long acted as my secretary, and being
well acquainted with the transactions, was able to give an ex-
planation of the articles, that might seem to require explaining,
if any such there were. He returned without effecting the
settlement, being told, that it could not be made till the arrival
of some documents expected from France. What those docu-
ments were, I have not been informed, nor can I readily con-
ceive, as all the vouchers existing there had been examined
by Mr. Barclay. And I, having been immediately after my
arrival engaged in the public business of this State, waited in
expectation of hearing from Congress, in case any part of
my accounts had been objected to.

It is now more than three years that those accounts have
been before that honourable body, and, to this day, no notice
of any such objection has been communicated to me. But
reports have, for some time past, been circulated here, and
propagated hi the newspapers, that I am greatly indebted to
the United States for large sums, that had been put into my
hands, and that I avoid a settlement. This, together with

688 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1788

the little time one of my age may expect to live, makes it
necessary for me to request earnestly, which I hereby do,
that the Congress would be pleased, without further delay,
to examine those accounts, and if they find therein any article
or articles, which they do not understand or approve, that they
would cause me to be acquainted with the same, that I may
have an opportunity of offering such explanations or reasons
in support of them as may be in my power, and then that the
accounts may be finally closed.

I hope the Congress will soon be able to attend to this busi-
ness for the satisfaction of the public, as well as in condescen-
sion to my request. In the mean time, if there be no impro-
priety in it, I would 'desire that this letter, together with
another relating to the same subject, the copy of which is
hereto annexed, may be put upon their minutes. With every
sentiment of respect and duty to Congress, I am, Sir, &c.

B. FRANKLIN

1752. TO WILLIAM VAUGHAN (L. c.)

Philadelphia, Dec. 9. 1788.

DEAR SIR : — I received your kind Letter of Oct. 5. I am
glad the little Papers I sent you were not unacceptable.
Having done with public Business, I am now employing my-
self in a Work your good Brother Benjamin once strongly
recommended to me, which is writing the History of my own
Life. This will contain a Number of Precepts of the kind
you desire, and all exemplified by the Effects of their Prac-
tice in my own Affairs. Please to inform Benja of this, and
that I have got as far as my fiftieth Year.

1788] TO WILLIAM VAUGHAN 689

I thank you for the Trouble you took in the Enquiry of Mr.
John Wright. I have written to him some time since that the
Types are come to hand, etc.

A Friend of mine designing a Present to her Son, a young
Student, of the best English Encyclopedia, has desired me to
procure it for her. Since I left England several different
Works under that title [have appeared], and I know not their
Characters or merits. I think I have seen mentioned in the
Advertisements one or two from Scotland. Will you be so
good as to inform yourself, if you do not know already,
which is the best and latest, and send it to me by one of the
first Spring Ships.1 Inclos'd is an Order on a Banking House
for Payment. On looking at it, I see it, was intended by the
Lady that your Brother should be troubled with this Order.
But 'tis the same thing, you can have his Opinion.

Our public Affairs are getting fast into Order, and we hope
that in a Year or two more they may be perfectly settled. The
bad Habits introduc'd by the war are also wearing out, and
sober Industry and Frugality are taking Place of Idleness
and Dissipation. It is pleasant to see the World growing
better and happier, tho' one [torn] to quit it. Next Month,
if I live to the middle of it, will finish my 83d Year. I have
a good deal recover'd from my last Summer's Illness, and am
at present, Thanks to God, pretty hearty, as well as all my
Family, who join in rejoicing that your good Mother and
Sisters, those amiable Girls, have also recover'd their usual
Health. God bless and preserve you all, prays your affec-
tionate Friend and humble Serv*.

B. FRANKLIN.

1 Mr. Vaughan sent Franklin a copy of Chambers' Encyclopaedia, corrected
by Dr. Reid. At the same time (Feb. 27, 1789) William Vaughan wrote that
his brother knew of no best encyclopaedia. — ED.

VOL. IX — 2 Y

690 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1788

1753. TO ABBE MORELLET (L. c.)

Philada., Dec. 10, 1788.

DEAR FRIEND: — The Suspension of the Pacquet Boats
has derang'd our Correspondence. It is long, very long since
I have been favoured with a Line from Auteuil, and M. de
Chaumont inform'd me lately that a Number of Letters
which I had sent to New York to go by the Pacquet to France
had been seen laying there many Months after, no Pacquet
arriving by which they might be sent. Pray let me know
whether you ever receiv'd my Remarks on the English Rea-
sons for refusing to deliver up the Posts on our Frontiers?
sent now near a Year since, in return for your excellent
"Guichets" and "Nouvelles Come'tologie," with which I
have most agreably entertain'd many of my Friends. I am,
however, not without Resources in this Dearth of News from
that Academy; for I often read over and over again, and
always with fresh Pleasure, your and Abbe* de la Roche's
pleasing and instructive Letters of July, 1787; and the
friendly affectionate griffonage, as she is pleased to call it,
of that good Dame,1 whom we all love, and whose Memory
I shall love and honour as long as I have any Existence.
And I sometimes dream of being in France, and visiting my
Friends there, when those of Auteuil are never forgotten.

I send you herewith as a small Curiosity some Songs and
Music of American Composition, the first Production of the
kind that has appeared here. I fancy some of the Music may
suit your taste, as it is simple and pathetic. The Poetry

1 Madame Helvetius. — ED.

1788] TO CHARLES THOMSON 691

of one of the Songs pleases me particularly. It is the Vth.
I wish you or Mr. Cabbanis would translate it, so as that
it may be sung to the same Notes.

The Gentleman who will have the honour of delivering
you this line, is Mr. Gouverneur Morris, formerly a Member
of Congress, and one of the Convention that composed the
Federal Constitution. He is much esteem 'd here by those
that know him, and being a Friend of mine, I beg leave to
recommend him to your Civilities, and to M. MarmontePs,
to whom please to present my Respects.

I hope the late Troubles in France are nearly over. 'Tis a
country that I dearly love, and in whose Prosperity I feel
myself deeply interested.

Having now finished my three years' Service as President,
and not likely to engage in any future publick Business, I begin
to feel myself a Freeman, and to enjoy the little Leisure that
the Remnant of Life may afford me. Some of this Leisure
I am, however, employing in writing my own History, which
calling past Transactions to Remembrance makes it seem a
little like living one's Life over again.

I am ever, my dear Friend, with great and sincere Esteem,

yours most affectionately,

B. FRANKLIN.

1754. TO CHARLES THOMSON1

Philadelphia, Dec. 29, 1788.
DEAR OLD FRIEND,

Inclos'd I send a Letter to the President of Congress for
the time being, which, if you find nothing improper in it, or

1 Printed in the Proceedings of the New York Historical Society. — ED.

692 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1788

that in regard for me you would wish changed or amended, I
would request you to present. I rely much on your friendly
counsel, as you must be better acquainted with persons and
circumstances than I am; and I suppose there will be time
enough before the new Congress is formed to make any
alterations you may advise, tho' if presented at all, it should
be to the old one.

In the copy of my letter to Mr. Barclay you may observe,
that mention is made of some "considerable Articles which
I have not charged in my accounts with Congress, but on
which I should expect from their equity some consideration."
That you may have some information what those articles are,
I enclose a "Sketch of my Services to the United States"
wherein you will find mention of the extra services I performed,
that do not appertain to the office of Plenipotentiary, viz : as
Judge of Admiralty, as Consul before the arrival of Mr. Bar-
clay, as Banker in examining and accepting the multitude of
Bills of Exchange, and as Secretary for several years, none
being sent to me, tho' other ministers were allowed such
assistance.

I must own, I did hope, that, as it is customary in Europe
to make some liberal provision for ministers when they return
home from foreign service during which their absence is nec-
essarily injurious to their private affairs, the Congress would
at least have been kind enough to have shewn their approba-
tion of my conduct by a grant of some small tract of Land
in their Western Country, which might have been of use and
some honour to my Posterity. And I cannot but still think
they will do something of the kind for me, whenever they shall
be pleased to take my services into consideration ; as I see
by their minutes that they have allowed Mr. Lee handsomely

1788] TO CHARLES THOMSON 693

for his service in England, before his appointment to France,
in which service I and Mr. Bollan cooperated with him, and
have had no such allowance; and, since his return, he has
been very properly rewarded with a good place, as well as my
friend Mr. Jay; tho' these are trifling compensations hi
comparison with what was granted by the King to Mr.
Ge'rard on his return from America.

But how different is what has happened to me ! On my
return from England, [in 1775,] the Congress bestowed on me
the office of PostMaster- General, for which I was very thank-
ful. It was indeed an office I had some kind of right to, as
having previously greatly enlarged the Revenue of the Post
by the Regulations I had contrived and established, while I
possessed it under the Crown. When I was sent to France,
I left it in the hands of my Son-in-Law, who was to act as my
Deputy. But soon after my departure, it was taken from
me, and given to Mr. Hazard. When the English Ministry
formerly thought fit to deprive me of the office, they left me,
however, the privilege of receiving and sending my letters
free of postage, which is the usage when a Postmaster is not
displaced for malfeasance in the office; but in America I
have ever since had the postage demanded of me, which,
since my return from France, has amounted to about £50,
much of it occasioned by my having acted as Minister there.

When I took my grandson, W. T. Franklin, with me
to France, I purposed, after giving him the French language,
to educate him in the study and practice of the Law. But
by the repeated expectation given me of a Secretary, and
constant disappointment, I was induced, and indeed obliged,
to retain him with me, to assist in the Secretary's office, which
disappointments continued till my return, by which time, so

694 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1788

many years of the opportunity of his studying the Law were
lost, and his habits of life become so different, that it appeared
no longer advisable ; and I then, considering him as brought
up in the diplomatic line, and well qualified by his knowledge
in that branch for the employ of a Secretary at least, (in which
opinion I was not alone, for three of my colleagues, without
the smallest solicitation from me, chose him Secretary of the
Commission for Treaties, which they had been empowered
to do,) I took the liberty of recommending him to the Con-
gress for their protection. This was the only favour I ever
asked of them ; and the only answer I received was a Resolu-
tion superseding him, and appointing Col. Humphreys in his
place; a gentleman, tho' he might have indeed a good deal
of military merit, certainly had none in the diplomatic line,
and had neither the French language, or the experience, or
the address proper to qualify him for such an employment.

This is all to yourself only as a private friend ; for I have
not, nor ever shall, make any public complaint; and even
if I could have foreseen such unkind treatment from Con-
gress as their refusing me their thanks would not in the least
have abated my zeal for the Cause, and ardour in support of
it. For I know something of the nature of such changeable
Assemblies, and how little successors are inform'd of the
services that have been rendered to the Corps before their ad-
mission, or feel themselves obliged for such services ; and what
effect in obliterating a sense of them, during the absence of the
servant in a distant Country, the artful and reiterated malev-
olent insinuations of one or two envious and malicious per-
sons may have on the minds of members, even of the most
equitable, candid, and honourable dispositions. Therefore
I would pass these reflections into oblivion.

1788] TO CHARLES THOMSON 695

My good friend, excuse, if you can, the trouble of this letter;
and if the reproach thrown on republics, that they are apt to be
ungratejul, should ever unfortunately be verified with respect
to your services, remember that you have a right to unbosom
yourself in communicating your griefs to your ancient friend

and most obedient humble servant,

B. FRANKLIN.

Sketch o) the Services of B. Franklin to the United States
o] America

In England, he combated the Stamp Act, and his writings in the papers
against it, with his examination in Parliament, were thought to have contributed
much to its repeal.

He opposed the Duty Act ; and, though he could not prevent its passing,
he obtained of Mr. Townshend an omission of several articles, particularly
salt.

In the subsequent difference he wrote and published many papers, refuting
the claim of Parliament to tax the colonies.

He opposed all the oppressive acts.

He had two secret negotiations with the ministers for their repeal, of which
he has written a narrative. In this he offered payment for the destroyed tea,
at his own risk, in case they were repealed.

He was joined with Messrs. Bollan and Lee in all the applications to govern-
ment for that purpose. Printed several pamphlets at his own considerable
expense against the then measures of government, whereby he rendered him-
self obnoxious, was disgraced before the privy council, deprived of a place in
the postoffice of £ 3°° sterling a year, and obliged to resign his agencies, viz.

of Pennsylvania £ 500

of Massachusetts . . . 400

of New Jersey .... 100

of Georgia .... 200

^1200

In the whole ,£1500 sterling per annum.

Orders were sent to the King's governors not to sign any warrants on the
treasury for the orders of his salaries ; and, though he was not actually dis-
missed by the colonies that employed him, yet, thinking the known malice of
the court against him rendered him less likely than others to manage their
affairs to their advantage, he judged it to be his duty to withdraw from their

696 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1788

service, and leave it open for less exceptionable persons, which saved them the
necessity of removing him.

Returning to America, he encouraged the Revolution. Was appointed
chairman of the Committee of Safety, where he projected the chevaux de /rise
for securing Philadelphia, then the residence of Congress.

Was sent by Congress to head-quarters near Boston with Messrs. Harrison
and Lynch, in 1775, to settle some affairs with the northern governments and
General Washington.

In the spring of 1776, was sent to Canada with Messrs. Chase and Carroll,
passing the Lakes while they were not yet free from ice. In Canada, was, with
his colleagues, instrumental in redressing sundry grievances, and thereby
reconciling the people more to our cause. He there advanced to General
Arnold and other servants of Congress, then in extreme necessity, £ 353 in
gold, out of his own pocket, on the credit of Congress, which was of great ser-
vice at that juncture, in procuring provisions for our army.

Being at the time he was ordered on this service upwards of seventy years
of age, he suffered in his health by the hardships of this journey ; lodging in
the woods, &c., in so inclement a season ; but, being recovered, the Congress
in the same year ordered him to France. Before his departure, he put all the
money he could raise, between three and four thousand pounds, into their
hands ; which, demonstrating his confidence, encouraged others to lend their
money in support of the cause.

He made no bargain for appointments, but was promised by a vote, the net
salary of £ 500 sterling per annum, his expense paid, and to be assisted by a
secretary, who was to have £ 1000 per annum, to include all contingencies.

When the Pennsylvania Assembly sent him to England in 1764, on the
same salary, they allowed him one year's advance for his passage, and in con-
sideration of the prejudice to his private affairs that must be occasioned by
his sudden departure and absence. He has had no such allowance from Con-
gress, was badly accommodated in a miserable vessel, improper for those
northern seas, (and which actually foundered in her return,) was badly fed, so
that on his arrival he had scarce strength to stand.

His services to the States as commissioner, and afterwards as minister
plenipotentiary are known to Congress, as may appear in his correspondence.
His extra services may not be so well known, and therefore may be here
mentioned. No secretary ever arriving, the business was in part before, and
entirely when the other commissioners left him, executed by himself, with the
help of his grandson, who at first was only allowed clothes, board, and lodg-
ing, and afterwards a salary, never exceeding £ 30x3 a year, (except while he
served as secretary to the Commissioners for peace,) by which difference in
salary, continued many years, the Congress saved, if they accept it £ 700 ster-
ling a year.

He served as consul entirely several years, till the arrival of Mr. Barclay,

1788] TO CHARLES THOMSON 697

and even after, as that gentleman was obliged to be much and long absent in
Holland, Flanders, and England ; during which absence, what business of the
kind occurred, still came to Mr. Franklin.

He served, though without any special commission for the purpose, as a
judge of admiralty ; for, the Congress having sent him a quantity of blank
commissions for privateers, he granted them to cruisers fitted out in the ports
of France, some of them manned by old smugglers, who knew every creek on
the coast of England, and, running all round the island, distressed the British
coasting trade exceedingly, and raised their general insurance. One of those
privateers alone, the Black Prince, took in the course of a year seventy-five
sail ! All the papers, taken in each prize brought in, were in virtue of an
order of council sent up to Mr. Franklin, who was to examine them, judge of
the legality of the capture, and write to the admiralty of the port, that he
found the prize good, and that the sale might be permitted. These papers,
which are very voluminous, he has to produce.

He served also as merchant, to make purchases, and direct the shipping of
stores to a very great value, for which he has charged no commission.

But the part of his service which was the most fatiguing and confining, was
that of receiving and accepting, after a due and necessary examination, the
bills of exchange drawn by Congress for interest money, to the amount of tiuo
millions and a half of livres annually ; multitudes of the bills very small, each
of which, the smallest, gave as much trouble in examining, as the largest.
And this careful examination was found absolutely necessary, from the con-
stant frauds attempted by presenting seconds and thirds for payment after the
firsts had been discharged. As these bills were arriving more or less by every
ship and every post, they required constant attendance. Mr. Franklin could
make no journey for exercise, as had been annually his custom, and the con-
finement brought on a malady that is likely to afflict him while he lives.

In short, though he has always been an active man, he never went through
so much business during eight years, in any part of his life, as during those
of his residence in France; which however he did not decline till he saw peace
happily made, and found himself in the eightieth year of his age ; when, if
ever, a man has some right to expect repose.

698 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1788

1755. TO THE EDITOR OF THE FEDERAL
GAZETTE

A COMPARISON OF THE CONDUCT OF THE ANCIENT JEWS AND
OF THE ANTI- FEDERALISTS IN THE UNITED STATES OF
AMERICA.1 (!<• C.)

A ZEALOUS Advocate for the propos'd Federal Constitu-
tion, in a certain public Assembly, said, that "the Repug-
nance of a great part of Mankind to good Government was
such, that he believed, that, if an angel from Heaven was to
bring down a Constitution form'd there for our Use, it
would nevertheless meet with violent Opposition." He was
reprov'd for the suppos'd Extravagance of the Sentiment;
and he did not justify it. Probably it might not have im-
mediately occur'd to him, that the Experiment had been
try'd, and that the Event was recorded in the most faithful
of all Histories, the Holy Bible; otherwise he might, as it
seems to me, have supported his Opinion by that unexcep-
tionable Authority.

The Supreme Being had been pleased to nourish up a
single Family, by continued Acts of his attentive Providence,
till it became a great People ; and, having rescued them from
Bondage by many Miracles, performed by his Servant Moses,
he personally deliver'd to that chosen Servant, in the presence
of the whole Nation, a Constitution and Code of Laws for
their Observance ; accompanied and sanction'd with Promises

1 From an auto, draft signed " K," in L. C. — ED.

1788] ANCIENT JEWS AND ANTI-FEDERALISTS 699

of great Rewards, and Threats of severe Punishments, as the
Consequence of their Obedience or Disobedience.

This Constitution, tho' the Deity himself was to be at its
Head (and it is therefore call'd by Political Writers a Theoc-
racy), could not be carried into Execution but by the Means
of his Ministers; Aaron and his Sons were therefore com-
mission'd to be, with Moses, the first establish'd Ministry of
the new Government.

One would have thought, that this Appointment of Men,
who had distinguished themselves in procuring the Liberty
of their Nation, and had hazarded their Lives in openly op-
posing the Will of a powerful Monarch, who would have
retain'd that Nation in Slavery, might have been an Ap-
pointment acceptable to a grateful People ; and that a Con-
stitution fram'd for them by the Deity himself might, on that
Account, have been secure of a universal welcome Recep-
tion. Yet there were in every one of the thirteen Tribes
some discontented, restless Spirits, who were continually
exciting them to reject the propos'd new Government, and
this from various Motives.

Many still retained an Affection for Egypt, the Land of
their Nativity ; and these, whenever they felt any Inconven-
ience or Hardship, tho' the natural and unavoidable Effect of
their Change of Situation, exclaim'd against their Leaders
as the Authors of their Trouble ; and were not only for re-
turning into Egypt, but for stoning their deliverers.1 Those
inclin'd to idolatry were displeas'd that their Golden Calf was
destroy 'd. Many of the Chiefs thought the new Constitu-
tion might be injurious to their particular Interests, that the
profitable Places would be engrossed by the Families and

1 Numbers, ch. xiv.

700 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN [1788

Friends of Moses and Aaron, and others equally well-born
excluded.1 In Josephus and the Talmud, we learn some
Particulars, not so fully narrated in the Scripture. We are
there told, " That Corah was ambitious of the Priesthood, and
offended that it was conferred on Aaron ; and this, as he said,
by the Authority of Moses only, without the Consent of the
People. He accus'd Moses of having, by various Artifices,
fraudulently obtain'd the Government, and depriv'd the
People of their Liberties; and of conspiring with Aaron to
perpetuate the Tyranny in their Family. Thus, tho' Corah's
real Motive was the Supplanting of Aaron, he persuaded the
People that he meant only the Public Good; and they, moved
by his Insinuations, began to cry out, 'Let us maintain the
Common Liberty of our respective Tribes; we have freed
ourselves from the Slavery impos'd on us by the Egyptians,
and shall we now suffer ourselves to be made Slaves by Moses ?
If we must have a Master, it were better to return to Pharaoh,
who at least fed us with Bread and Onions, than to serve this
new Tyrant, who by his Operations has brought us into
Danger of Famine.' Then they called in question the
Reality of his Conference with God; and objected the Pri-
vacy of the Meetings, and the preventing any of the People
from being present at the Colloquies, or even approaching the
Place, as Grounds of great Suspicion. They accused Moses
also of Peculation; as embezzling part of the Golden Spoons
and the Silver Chargers, that the Princes had offer'd at the
Dedication of the Altar,2 and the Offerings of Gold by the

1 Numbers, ch. xiv, verse 3. " And they gathered themselves together
against Moses and Aaron, and said unto them, ' Ye take too much upon you,
seeing all the congregation are holy, every one of them ; wherefore, then, lift
ye up yourselves above the congregation ? ' "

2 Numbers, ch. vii.

1 788] ANCIENT JEWS AND ANTI-FEDERALISTS 701

common People,1 as well as most of the Poll-Tax ; 2 and
Aaron they accus'd of pocketing much of the Gold of which he
pretended to have made a molten Calf. Besides Peculation,
they charg'd Moses with Ambition; to gratify which Passion
he had, they said, deceiv'd the People, by promising to bring
them to a land flowing with Milk and Honey; instead of
doing which, he had brought them jrom such a Land; and
that he thought light of all this mischief, provided he could
make himself an absolute Prince.3 That, to support the new
Dignity with Splendor in his Family, the partial Poll-Tax
already levied and given to Aaron 4 was to be follow'd by a
general one,5 which would probably be augmented from time
to time, if he were suffered to go on promulgating new Laws,
on pretence of new occasional Revelations of the divine Will,
till their whole Fortunes were devour'd by that Aristocracy."

Moses deny'd the Charge of Peculation ; and his Accusers
were destitute of Proofs to support it ; tho' Facts, if real, are
in their Nature capable of Proof. " I have not," said he (with
holy Confidence in the Presence of his God), " I have not taken
from this People the value of an Ass, nor done them any other
Injury." But his Enemies had made the Charge, and with
some Success among the Populace; for no kind of Accusa-
tion is so readily made, or easily believ'd, by Knaves as the
Accusation of Knavery.

In fine, no less than two hundred and fifty of the principal
Men, "famous in the Congregation, Men of Renown,"'

1 Exodus, ch. xxxv, verse 22.

a Numbers, ch. iii, and Exodus, ch. xxx.

1 Numbers, ch. xvi, verse 1 3. " Is it a small thing that thou hast brought
us up out of a land that floweth with milk and honey, to kill us in the wilder-
ness, except thou make thyself altogether a prince over us ? "

* Numbers, ch. iii • Exodus, ch. xxx. • Numbers, ch. xvi

702 THE WRITINGS OF BENJAMIN" FRANKLIN [1788

heading and exciting the Mob, worked them up to such a pitch
of Frenzy, that they called out, " Stone 'em, stone 'em, and
thereby secure our Liberties; and let us chuse other Captains,
that may lead us back into Egypt, in case we do not succeed
in reducing the Canaanites!"

On the whole, it appears, that the Israelites were a People
jealous of their newly-acquired Liberty, which Jealousy was
in itself no Fault ; but, when they suffer'd it to be work'dupon
by artful Men, pretending Public Good, with nothing really in
view but private Interest, they were led to oppose the Estab-
lishment of the New Constitution, whereby they brought upon
themselves much Inconvenience and Misfortune. It appears
further, from the same inestimable History, that, when after
many Ages that Constitution was become old and much abus'd,
and an Amendment of it was propos'd, the populace, as they
had accus'd Moses of the Ambition of making himself a
Prince, and cried out, " Stone him, stone him;" so, excited
by their High Priests and SCRIBES, they exclaim'd against the
Messiah, that he aim'd at becoming King of the Jews, and
cry'd out, "Crucify him, Crucify him" From all which we
may gather, that popular Opposition to a public Measure is
no Proof of its Impropriety, even tho' the Opposition be

excited and headed by Men of Distinction.
To conclude, I beg I may not be understood to infer, that
our General Convention was divinely inspired, when it
form'd the new federal Constitution, merely because that
Constitution has been unreasonably and vehemently opposed ;
yet I must own I have so much Faith in the general Gov-
ernment of the world by Providence, that I can hardly con-
ceive a Transaction of such momentous Importance to the
Welfare of Millions now existing, and to exist in the Posterity

I ;88] ANCIENT JEWS AND ANTI-FEDERALISTS 703

of a great Nation, should be suffered to pass without being
in some degree influenc'd, guided, and governed by that
omnipotent, omnipresent, and beneficent Ruler, in whom all
inferior Spirits live, and move, and have their Being.

B. F.

University of Toronto
Library

DO NOT

REMOVE

THE

CARD

FROM

THIS

POCKET

Acme Library Card Pocket
LOWE-MARTIN CO. LIMITED


===== Benjamin Franklin - Founders Online (complete) + Works of Benjamin Franklin (Sparks, 10 vols, PD) (vol. 3) =====
Source: https://archive.org/download/worksofbenjaminf03fran/worksofbenjaminf03fran_djvu.txt

NYPL RESEARCH LIBRARIES
I I I I I I II M I I

Illlllllllllllllillli

3 3433 08173745 8

THE
NEW YORK PUBLIC LIBRARY

+ ■* *

The Amy Angell Collier Montague

and Gilbert H. Montague

Collection

Ufa <iy

SEAL HARBOR LIBRARY,
96&

FEDERAL EDITION
Limited to 1,000 signed and numbered sets.

The Collector's Federal Edition of the Writings
of Benjamin Franklin is limited to six hundred
signed and numbered sets, of which this is

Number

We guarantee that no limited, numbered edition,
other than the Federal, shall be printed from these
plates.

The written number must correspond with the
perforated number at top of this page.

nelw

Benjamin Franklin

From the miniature by Thouron

(Lift

Murk* of

If -4V

itk.

(C v1*" ♦ • V- ♦- VPV? +"

III

w

(frweltfi? Halume$

Jieft^ral (fMfhw

The Works of

Benjamin Franklin

Including the Private as well as the
Official and Scientific Correspondence

Together with
The Unmutilated and Correct Version of the Autobiography

Compiled and Edited
by

John Bigelow

Strange that Ulysses does a thousand things so well." — Iliad, B. it, 335

Volume III

G. P. Putnam's Sons

New York and London

Cbe IRntckeiboc&er. lprees
Ube ttnlcfeerboclier pxces, Hew Mork

CONTENTS OF VOL. Ill

J753-

CVII. — To William Smith, November 27TH . 3
The academy.

CVIII. — To Cadwallader Colden, December

6th ....... 4

Regulation of trade with the Indians.
CIX. — To James Bowdoin, December 13TH . 5
Concerning the light emitted by salt water
— Abbe Nollet's letters.
CX. — To Peter Collinson, April i8th . 8

New method of ascertaining the positive
and negative state of electricity in the clouds.

CXI. — To Cadwallader Colden, August 30TH. 9
On a plan for a union of the colonies — Bec-
caria on electricity.

CXII. — Plan of Union for the Colonies . 12
CXIII. — Letters to Governor Shirley . . 46

1755-

CXIV. — To Miss Catherine Ray, March 4TH . 58
CXV. — Electrical Experiments, March 14TH 60
CXVI. — To John Lining, March i8th . . 67
Electrical observations and experiments —
Reflections on the spirit of invention.

iv Contents of Volume III

PAGE

CXVII. — To M. Dalibard, June 29TH . . 76

Beccaria on ekctricity — Pointed rods —
Effect of lightning on the church of Newberry.

CXVIII. — To Peter Collinson, August 25TH . 80
A whirlwind in Maryland.

CXIX. — To Jared Eliot, August 31ST . . 82
State of the army — Mitchell's map— John
Bartram.

CXX. — To Jared Eliot, September ist . . 84
Introducing Mr. Bartram and Mr. Alison.

CXXL — To Miss Catherine Ray, September

iith 85

CXXII. — To William Shirley, October 23D . 90
Thanks and proffer of service.
CXXIII. — To James Read, November 2D 91

Arms and ammunition for the frontier.

CXXIV. — An Act to Organize for Military Pur-
poses in Pennsylvania ... 93

CXXV. — To William Parsons, December 5TH . 99
Appropriations for the defence of the fron-
tiers— The militia act.

CXXVI. — To William Parsons, December 15TH . 101
Troops sent to the front.
CXXVII. — Dialogue between X, Y, and Z . . 102
CXXVIII. — To Mrs. Deborah Franklin, Decem-
ber 27TH ...... 117
CXXIX. — Commission from Lt.-Gov. Morris,

January 5TH ..... 118
CXXX. — To Mrs. Deborah Franklin, January

15TH ....... 118

CXXXI. — To Mrs. Deborah Franklin, January

25TH ....... 119

The situation at Gnadenhutten.

Contents of Volume III

CXXXII
CXXXIII

cxxxiv.

cxxxv

cxxxvi

CXXXVII.
CXXXVIII.

CXXXIX.

CXL.
CXLI.

CXLIL—

CXLIII.
CXLIV.

CXLV.
CXLVI,

CXLVIL-
CXLVIIL-

TV T^ PAGE

— To a Friend, January 25TH . . .121
March of the troops to Gnadenhutten and
building the fort.

. — To Robert Hunter Morris, Governor
of Pennsylvania, January 26th
Gnadenhutten — Number and disposition of
the troops.

—To Mrs. Deborah Franklin, January
30TH .....

—To Mrs. Deborah Franklin, January
31ST

—To Mrs. Jane Mecom, February 12TH.
— To Miss E. Hubbard, February 23D

On the death of his brother, John Franklin.
—To Mrs. Deborah Franklin, March

2 I ST .

—To Mrs. Deborah Franklin, March
30TH ......

—To Joseph Huey, June 6th .

—To Mrs. Jane Mecom, June 28th
His nephew at Antigua.
To William Parsons, June 28th

Military affairs.

-To George Whitefield, July 2D
-To Thomas Pownall, August 19TH

Indians regardless of treaties — Six nations
— Recruits wanted on the frontier.

-To George Washington, August 19TH .

A mail for the army.

-To Mrs. Deborah Franklin, Novem-
ber 13TH .....
Conference with the Indians at Easton.

To Edward and Jane Mecom, Decem-
ber 30TH ....

Plan for Settling Tv/o Western Colo-
nies in North America, with Rea-
sons for the Plan .
I25
127
129
135
139
143
J45

vi Contents of Volume III
PAGE

CXLIX. — To Robert Charles, February ist . 157
CL. — Report op the Committee op Griev-
ances of the Assembly of Pennsyl-
vania, February 22D . . . 159
CLI. — To Mrs. Jane Mecom, February 2ist . 168
CLII. — To William Parsons, February 22D . 168
Mission to England.
CLIII. — To Miss Catherine Ray, March 3D . 169
CLIV.— To Mr. Dunlap, April 4TH . . .170
CLV. — To Mrs. Deborah Franklin, April 5TH. 1 7 1

CLVI. — To John Lining, April 14TH . . .172
On cold produced by evaporation.
CLVII. — To Mrs. Jane Mecom, April 19TH . 180

Habits of old age.
CLVIII. — To Mrs. Jane Mecom, May 21ST . . 181
Domestic economy.

CLIX.— To Mrs. Deborah Franklin, May 27TH, 183
Delayed at New York — Lord Loudoun —
French fleet reported.
CLX. — To Isaac Norris, May 30TH . . .186
Delays — Interviews with Lord Loudoun re-
specting the pay of servants enlisted in the army.

CLXI. — To Mrs. Jane Mecom, May 30TH . . 191
Rules of conduct — Habits of industry.
CLXII. — To Mrs. Deborah Franklin, June 2D . 194

Arrival in London.

CLXIII.— To Mrs. Deborah Franklin, July 27TH 195
CLXIV. — To Mrs. Deborah Franklin, Novem-
ber 22D ....-• *95
His long illness— Dr. Fothergill— The Stev-
ensons.
CLXV.— From William Strahan to Mrs. Frank-
lin, December 13TH .... 202
CLXVL— To John Pringle, December 2 ist . 206
The effects of electricity on paralytics.

Contents of Volume III vii
PAGE

CLXVII. — To John Pringle, January 6th . 208
On the different strata of the earth.
CLXVIII. — To Mrs. Deborah Franklin, Janu-
ary 14.TH 209

CLXIX. — To Mrs. Deborah Franklin, Janu-
ary 21ST ..... 211
CLXX. — To Mrs. Deborah Franklin, Febru-
ary 19TH ..... 212

Hackney coaches — Presents to his wife
and friends.
CLXXI. — To Thomas Hubbard, April 28TH . 217
CLXXII. — To Mrs. Deborah Franklin, June

ioth ...... 220

Governor Denny — Governor Hamilton —
Taxing the proprietary estates.

CLXXIII. — To the Speaker and Committee of
the Pennsylvania Assembly, June
ioth ...... 227

Case of Moore and Smith — Privileges of
the Assembly — Prejudices in England.

CLXXIV. — To John Lining, June 17TH . . 230

Experiments for producing cold by evap-
oration.
CLXXV.— To Mrs. Deborah Franklin, Sep-
tember 6th ..... 235
Travels in England — Cambridge Univer-
sity— Account of his father's birthplace and
relations there.
CLXXVI. — To Hugh Roberts, September i6th 239

CLXXVII. — ToMrs. Jane Mecom, September i6th 242
Family connections — Reflections — Faith,
Hope, and Charity.
CLXXVIII. — To Miss Stevenson, May 4TH . . 245

viii Contents of Volume III
PAGE

CLXXIX. — To Lord Kames, January 3D . . 246
Predictions in regard to America — Wm.
Penn's portrait — Recollections of Scotland.

CLXXX. — To John Hughes, January 7TH . 251
Prospect of Peace — Canada — Condition
of laws sent to England.

CLXXXI. — To Mrs. Deborah Franklin, March
5th

Recommended to settle in England.

CLXXXIL — To Miss Stevenson, May ist .
CLXXXIIL— To Lord Kames, May 3d .

CLXXXIV— To Peter Franklin, May 7TH .
On the saltness of sea water.
CLXXXV. — To Alexander Small, May 12TH
CLXXXVI .— To Miss Stevenson, May i6th

Directions for reading.

CLXXXVII. — To Miss Stevenson, June iith

Effect of air on the barometer — The study
of insects.

CLXXXVIII.— To Mrs. Deborah Franklin, Junb
27TH ......

Advice not to worry about him — Negro
school — Servants — Marriages.
CLXXXIX. — To Miss Stevenson, September 13TH 271
The Bristol waters and the tide in rivers.
CXC. — The Interest of Great Britain
Considered with Regard to her
Colonies and the Acquisitions of
Canada and Guadaloupe . . 278

CXCI. — To Lord Kames, September 27TH . 334
Journey in England and Wales.
CXCII. — To David Hume, September 27TH . 335
The Historical Review — Duke of Bedford
— The Canada Exhibition — Hume's essay
on Jealousy of Commerce — The use of new
words.
254
259
263
268

Contents of Volume III ix

PAGB

CXGIII. — To John Baskerville, the Printer 338

On the use of his printing-types.
CXCIV. — To Mrs. Deborah Franklin . . 340
CXCV. — To the Printer of the "London

Chronicle" 342

On the means of disposing an enemy to
peace; purporting to be a chapter from an
old book.
CXCVI. — To Hugh Roberts, February 26th . 348
Hospital — The old Junto.
CXCVII. — To Miss Stevenson, March 30TH . 350
Salt water freshened by distillation — How
to relieve thirst by sea water.

CXCVIII.— To Josiah Quincy, April 8th . . 352

Edmund Quincy — Affairs in England.

CXCIX. — To Henry Potts, April 23D . . 354
Postal routes and mail service in New
Jersey.
CC. — To Edward Pennington, May <jth . 360
Property of the Penn family in Pennsyl-
vania.
CCI. — To Mrs. Deborah Franklin, Sep-
tember 14TH ..... 363
Travels in Holland and Flanders.
CCII. — To Miss Stevenson, October 29TH . 363
CCIII. — To Lord Kames, November . . 364
His Introduction to the Art of Thinking —
The Art of Virtue — Dr. Cullen.
CCIV. — To David Hume, January 24TH . 368
On the securing of houses from the effects
of lightning.

Contents of Volume III

PAGE

CCV. TO E. KlNNERSLEY, FEBRUARY 20TH . 37 I

How long the Leyden bottle may be kept
charged — Heated glass permeable by elec-
tricity— Electrical attraction and repulsion
— Explosion of water — Knobs and points.

CCVI. — To Miss Stevenson, March 8th . 399

CCVII. — To Miss Stevenson, March 22D . 400
The Leyden bottle.

CCVIII. — To Mrs. Deborah Franklin, March

24TH 401

CCIX. — From David Hume, May ioth . . 402
Remarks on lightning-rods — Franklin as
a philosopher and man of letters.

CCX. — To David Hume, May 19TH . . 404
Lightning-rods and lightning — Lord Mari-
schal — Gold and wisdom.

CCXL— Fire 407

CCXII. — To Miss Stevenson, June 7TH . . 409
CCXIII. — Electrical Experiments on Amber,

July 3D 410

CCXIV. — To John Baptist Beccaria, July

13TH ...... 411

A new musical instrument.

CCXV. — To Oliver Neave, July 20TH . .417

The best medium for conveying sound.

CCXVI. — To Mr. William Strahan, July 2oth, 420

CCXVII. — To Mr. William Strahan, July 23D . 421

CCXVIII. — To Miss Stevenson, August 1 ith . 422

CCXIX. — To Lord Kames, August 17TH . . 423

Farewell to England — The Elements of
Criticism.

CCXX. — To Mr. William Strahan, August

23D 425

CCXXI. — To John Pringle, December ist . 426
The effect of oil on water.
CCXXII. — To William Strahan, December 2D . 428

Contents of Volume III xi

PAGE

CCXXIII. — To Mr. Whiteford, December 7TH . 429
William Franklin appointed governor of
New Jersey — The taking of Havana — Paint-
ing and poetry in America.
CCXXIV.— To Mr. Peter Franklin . . . 43 2
The best method of protecting a powder
magazine from lightning.
CCXXV. — B. Franklin's Services in the Gen-
eral Assembly of Pennsylvania . 434
CCXXVI. — To Mrs. Greene, January 23D . 444

CCXXVIL— To , February qth . . 445

Expenses and compensation as agent of
the province of Pennsylvania in England.

CCXXVIIL— To William Strahan, February

23D ...... 447

CCXXIX. — Congelation of Quicksilver — Cold
from Evaporation, February
26th ....-• 447

CCXXX.— To Miss Stevenson, March 25TH . 449

Arrival in America.

CCXXXL— To Jonathan Williams, April 13TH . 453

CCXXXIL— To William Strahan, June 2D . 454

CCXXXIIL— To Miss Stevenson, June ioth . 455

CCXXXIV.— To William Strahan, June ioth . 455

CCXXXV.— To Mrs. Deborah Franklin, June

i6th 457

CORRESPONDENCE

AND

MISCELLANEOUS WRITINGS

VOL. III. — I

CORRESPONDENCE

AND

MISCELLANEOUS WRITINGS

CVII

TO WILLIAM SMITH

Philadelphia, 27 November, 1753.

Dear Sir: — Having written to you fully, via
Bristol, I have now little to add. Matters relating
to the Academy remain in statu quo. The trustees
would be glad to see a rector established there, but
they dread entering into new engagements till they
are got out of debt; and I have not yet got them
wholly over to my opinion, that a good professor or
teacher of the higher branches of learning would
draw so many scholars as to pay great part, if not
the whole, of his salary. Thus, unless the Proprie-
tors of the province shall think fit to put the finishing
hand to our institution, it must, I fear, wait some
few years longer before it can arrive at that state of
perfection which to me it seems now capable of ; and
all the pleasure I promised myself in seeing you

4 The Works of [1753

settled among us vanishes into smoke. But good
Mr. Collinson writes me word that no endeavours of
his shall be wanting; and he hopes, with the Arch-
bishop's assistance, to be able to prevail with our
Proprietors.1 I pray God grant them success. My
son presents his affectionate regards, with, dear Sir,
yours, &c,

B. Franklin.

CVIII

TO CADWALLADER COLDEN

Philadelphia, 6 December, 1753.

Dear Sir: — I received your favor of the 19th
past, with some remarks on my meteorological paper,
for which I thank you and return some observations
on those remarks, hoping by this friendly inter-
course of sentiments and objections some advantage
will arise, to the increase of true knowledge.

I sent you our treaty some time since. You will
find very little in it; but I have hopes it will intro-
duce a regulation of our Indian trade, by the govern-
ment taking it in hand and furnishing the Indians
with goods at the cheapest rate without aiming at
profit, as is done by Massachusetts ; by which means
I think we must vastly undersell the French, and
thereby attach the Indians more firmly to the British
interest.

1 Upon the application of Archbishop Herring and Peter Collinson,
at Dr. Franklin's request (aided by the letters of Mr. Allen and Mr.
Peters), Thomas Penn subscribed an annual sum, and afterwards gave
at least £5,000 to the founding or engrafting the College upon the
Academy. — Stuber.

1753] Benjamin Franklin 5

Mr. Collinson certainly received your answer to
Kastner. I think one of his letters to me mentions it.

I send you herewith a copy of my paper on the
Increase of Mankind; the only one I have, so must
request you to return it. That on the Air, &c. , is what
you have already seen. The third mentioned to you
by Mr. Collinson concerning the Germans, is scarcely
worth sending. It will contain nothing new to you.

I congratulate you on Lord Halifax's approba-
tion of your conduct in public affairs. From such a
man the honor is great, and the satisfaction ; but the
approbation of your own mind is something more
valuable in itself, and it is what I doubt not you will
always enjoy.

I should like to see Pike's book some time or other,
when you can conveniently send it. With great
respect and esteem, I am, Sir, &c,

B. Franklin.

CIX

TO JAMES BOWDOIN

Philadelphia, 13 December, 1753.

Dear Sir: — I received your favor of the 12th
ultimo, with the law of your province for regulating
the Indian trade, for which I thank you, and for the
remarks that accompany it, which clearly evince the
usefulness of the law, and I hope will be sufficient to
induce our Assembly to follow your example.

I have yet received no particulars of the un-
happy gentleman's death at Petersburg, (whose fate I
lament). One of the papers says that all the letters

6 The Works of [1753

from thence confirm the account, and mentions his
name (Professor Richmann), but nothing farther.
No doubt we shall have a minute account of the
accident with all its circumstances, in some of the
magazines or the Transactions of the Royal Society.1

The observation you made of the sea water emit-
ting more and less light in different tracts passed
through by your boat is new, and your manner of
accounting for it ingenious. It is indeed very pos-
sible that an extremely small animalcule, too small
to be visible even by the best glasses, may yet give a
visible light. I remember to have taken notice, in a
drop of kennel water, magnified by the solar micro-
scope to the bigness of a cart-wheel, there were num-
bers of visible animalcules of various sizes swimming
about; but I was sure there were likewise some
which I could not see, even with that magnifier, for
the wake they made in swimming to and fro was very
visible, though the body that made it was not so.
Now if I could see the wake of an invisible animal-
cule, I imagine I might much more easily see its
light if it were of the luminous kind. For how small
is the extent of a ship's wake, compared with that of
the light of her lantern.

My barometer will not show the luminous appear-
ance by agitating the mercury in the dark, but I
think yours does. Please to try whether it will,
when agitated, attract a fine thread hung near the
top of the tube.

1 Professor Richmann was killed at Petersburg, on the 26th of July,
1753, while repeating Franklin's experiment for bringing electricity
from the clouds. He received a shock, which caused instantaneous
death.

1753] Benjamin Franklin 7

As to the answer to Nollet, if I were going on with
it, I should be extremely glad of your peeping into it
(as you say) now and then, that I might correct it
by your advice. The materials in short hints have
been long collected and methodized ; they only want
to be clothed with expression. But soon after my
return from New England, I received the enclosed
from Monsieur Dalibard, wherein he tells me that he
is preparing an answer, not only to the Abbe, but to
some others that have wrote against my doctrine,
which will be published the beginning of this winter.
This, with a good deal of business, and a little natural
indolence, has made me neglect finishing my answer
till I shall see what is done by him. Perhaps it
may then appear unnecessary for me to do any thing
farther in it. And will not one's vanity be more
gratified in seeing one's adversary confuted by a
disciple than even by one's self? I am, however, a
little concerned for Dalibard, when I find by his let-
ter that he has been so far imposed on by the Abbe's
confident assertion that a charged bottle placed on
an electric per se loses its electricity, as to attempt to
account for it, when the thing is absolutely not fact.
I have in answer wrote him my sentiments on that
and some other particulars of the Abbe's book, which
I hope will get to hand before his answer is published.1

I am with the greatest esteem and regard,
Dear Sir, your most obliged humble servant,

B. Franklin.

1 The Abbe" Nollet published in Paris a volume entitled, Letters sur
I'Electricite, dans lesquelles on examine les decouvertes qui ont ete faites
sur cette matiere depuis I'Annee I752,et les consequences que Von en peut

8 The Works of [1754

CX

TO PETER COLLINSON

Philadelphia, 18 April, 1754.

Sir: — Since September last, having been abroad
on two long journeys and otherwise much engaged, I
have made but few observations on the positive and
negative state of electricity in the clouds. But Mr.
Kinnersley kept his rod and bells in good order, and
has made many.

Once this winter the bells rang a long time during
a fall of snow, though no thunder was heard or light-
ning seen. Sometimes the flashes and cracks of the
electric matter between bell and bell were so large
and loud as to be heard all over the house; but by
all his observations the clouds were constantly in a
negative state, till about six weeks ago, when he
found them once to change in a few minutes from
the negative to the positive. About a fortnight after
that he made another observation of the same kind,
and last Monday afternoon, the wind blowing hard
at southeast and veering round to northeast, with
many thick, driving clouds, there were five or six
successive changes from negative to positive, and
from positive to negative, the bells stopping a minute
or two between every change. Besides the methods
mentioned in my paper of September last of discover-

tirer. In the first volume were six letters directed to Franklin, de-
signed to confute his doctrines and hypotheses. The Abba's effort
brought into the field several champions of Dr. Franklin, among whom
were David Colden, a son of Cadwallader Colden, of New York, and
Monsieur Dalibard, of Paris. Franklin decided that the Abbess letters
did not require any reply from him.

1754] Benjamin Franklin 9

ing the electrical state of the clouds, the following
may be used. When your bells are ringing, pass a
rubbed tube by the edge of the bell, connected with
your pointed rod; if the cloud is then in a negative
state, the ringing will stop; if in a positive state, it
will continue, and perhaps be quicker. Or suspend
a very small cork ball by a fine silk thread, so that
it may hang close to the edge of the rod-bell; then,
whenever the bell is electrified, whether positively
or negatively, the little ball will be repelled and con-
tinue at some distance from the bell. Have ready
a round-headed glass stopper of a decanter, rub it on
your side till it is electrified, then present it to the
cork ball. If the electricity in the ball is positive,
it will be repelled from the glass stopper, as well as
from the bell; if negative, it will fly to the stopper.

B. Franklin.1

CXI

TO CADWALLADER COLDEN

Philadelphia, 30 August, 1754.

Dear Sir: — I have now before me your favors of
Jul)'- 23d, and August 15th. I return Mr. Pike's
Philo sophia Sacra. His manner of philosophizing is
much out of my way.

I am now about to proceed on my eastern journey,
but hope to be at home in the winter, the best season
for electrical experiments, when I will gladly make
any you desire. In the mean time I should be glad

1 Soon after writing this letter Franklin set out on a tour to New-
England.

io The Works of [1754

if you would communicate the thoughts you men-
tion, that I may consider them. If you please,
direct them to me at Boston.

There must, I think, be some mistake in what you
mention, of my having sent to Mr. Collinson the
paper you wrote me on wTater-spouts. I have the
original now by me, and cannot recollect that I ever
copied it, or that I ever communicated the contents
of it to Mr. Collinson or any one. Indeed, I have
long had an intention of sending him all I have
wrote, and all I have received from others on this
curious subject, without mentioning names; but it is
not yet done.

Our Assembly were not inclined to show any ap-
probation of the plan of union; yet I suppose they
will take no steps to oppose its being established by
the government at home. Popular elections have
their inconveniences in some cases ; but in establish-
ing new forms of government, we cannot always ob-
tain what we may think the best; for the prejudices
of those concerned, if they cannot be removed, must
be in some degree complied with. However, I am
of opinion that when troops are to be raised in
America, the officers appointed must be men they
know and approve, or the levies will be made with
more difficulty, and at much greater expense.1

It is not to be expected that a Quaker Assembly
will establish any but Quaker schools ; nor will they
ever agree to a tax for the payment of any clergy.

1 The author had recently returned from the Convention at Albany,
where he had proposed his celebrated Plan of Union. This Plan, and
Mr. Colden's remarks on some parts of it, may be found in No. CXII.

1754] Benjamin Franklin u

It is intended by the Society, that the schoolmasters
among the Germans shall teach English.

I am glad the representation is agreeable to your
sentiments. The letter to Lord Halifax I suppose
your son sends from New York.

Since my return I have received from Italy a book
in quarto, entitled DelV Elettricismo Artificiale e
Naturale, Libri Due, di Giovambattista Beccaria de1
CC. RR. delle Scuole Pie, printed at Turin, and dedi-
cated to the King. The author professedly goes on
my principles; he seems a master of method, and
has reduced to systematic order the scattered ex-
periments and positions delivered in my paper. At
the end of the first book, there is a letter addressed
to the Abbe Nollet, in which he answers some of the
Abbe's principal objections. This letter being trans-
lated into French, I send you the translation for
your perusal, and will send you the Italian book
itself by some future opportunity, if you desire it.
It pleases me the more, in that I find the author has
been led by sundry observations and experiments,
though different from mine, to the same strange con-
clusion, viz., that some thunder-strokes are from the
earth upwards; in which I feared I should for some
time have been singular.

With the greatest esteem and regard I am, dear
Sir, &c,

B. Franklin.

P. S. — Please to send me the French piece by the
first opportunity, after you have perused it, directed
to me at Boston.

12 The Works of [1754

CXII

PLAN OF UNION FOR THE COLONIES

In anticipation of unpleasant complications with
France, the Lords of Trade directed commissioners to be
appointed in several of the provinces, to assemble at
Albany for the specific purpose of conciliating and at-
taching to them the Six Nations, whose alliance was of
vital importance in case of a war with France. The com-
missioners met on the 19th of June, 1754. The colonies
of New Hampshire, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, Con-
necticut, New York, Pennsylvania, and Maryland were
represented by twenty-five commissioners or delegates.
Franklin was the commissioner from Pennsylvania.
Several days were spent in distributing presents and
holding "talks" with the Indians. On the 24th of June
the journal of the commissioners shows the following
record :

"A motion was made that the commissioners deliver
their opinion whether a union of all the colonies is not at
present absolutely necessary for their security and de-
fence. The question was accordingly put, and passed in
the affirmative unanimously.

" On a motion made, that a committee be appointed to
prepare and receive plans or schemes for the union of
the colonies, and to digest them into one general plan for
the inspection of this Board ; Resolved, that each gov-
ernment choose one of their own number to be of that
committee. Accordingly were appointed Thomas Hutch-
inson for Massachusetts, Theodore Atkinson for New
Hampshire, William Pitkin for Connecticut, Stephen
Hopkins for Rhode Island, William Smith for New York,
Benjamin Franklin for Pennsylvania, and Benjamin
Tasker for Maryland."

1754] Benjamin Franklin 13

It is a significant and curious fact that, with the excep-
tion of those from Massachusetts, none of the delegates
had any instructions to discuss the question of a union of
the colonies for mutual defence, or for any other purpose.
Their instructions restricted them to the concerting of
measures best calculated to secure the friendship of the
Six Nations, and to resist the encroachment of the French
and their allies. The Massachusetts commissioners were
authorized to " enter into articles of union and confedera-
tion for the general defence of his Majesty's subjects and
interests in North America, as well in time of peace as of
wary Though not within the instructions of the com-
missioners, there are abundant reasons for believing that
some plan of union was the subject of much more thought
and discussion than the friendship of the Indians, a sub-
ject, however, which was not neglected. It certainly
had been the uppermost thought in Franklin's mind for
some time. The Pennsylvania Gazette for May 9th, 1754,
contains an account, evidently from his pen, of the cap-
ture by the French of Captain Trent's party, who were
erecting a fort (afterwards Fort Duquesne) at the fork of
the Ohio. After narrating the particulars, and urging
union to resist aggression, he adds: "The confidence of
the French in this undertaking seems well grounded in the
present disunited state of the British colonies, and the
extreme difficulty of bringing so many different govern-
ments and assemblies to agree in any speedy and effectual
measures for our common defence and security; while
our enemies have the very great advantage of being under
one direction, with one council, and one purse." At the
end of the article is a woodcut, in which is the figure of a
snake, separated into parts, to each of which is affixed the
initial of one of the colonies, and at the bottom in large
capital letters the motto, Join or Die. It is not sur-
prising, therefore, that when Franklin arrived at Albany,

14 The Works of [1754

he had in his pocket a "plan of union" which he had
submitted to several influential friends in New York, and
which received their approval. Several other plans were
submitted to the committee, but his was approved of,
and reported to the commissioners. Its various features
were under discussion twelve days, and finally adopted,
subject to the confirmation of Parliament, which was
judged necessary to give such a union validity. Though
the commissioners were nearly or quite unanimous in ap-
proving Franklin's plan of union — Trumbull says the Con-
necticut delegates did not approve of it, though they did
approve of the union, — it met with a very different re-
ception from the colonial assemblies to whom it was sub-
mitted, while in England, it proved so unacceptable that
the Board of Trade did not even recommend it to the
notice of the king. Franklin says: "The Assemblies all
thought there was too much prerogative in it, and in Eng-
land it was thought to have too much of the democratic."
The home government had doubtless much the same
reasons for discouraging such a union as the Roman em-
perors had for refusing to allow the servile population to
be put in uniform ; they did not care to give them such
facilities for learning their own strength.

Short Hints towards a Scheme for Uniting the Northern

Colonies

A GOVERNOR-GENERAL

To be appointed by the King.

To be a military man.

To have a salary from the crown.

To have a negation on all acts of the Grand Coun-
cil, and carry into execution whatever is agreed on
by him and that Council.

1754] Benjamin Franklin 15

GRAND COUNCIL

One member to be chosen by the Assembly of
each of the smaller colonies, and two or more by each
of the larger, in proportion to the sums they pay
yearly into the general treasury.

members' pay

shillings sterling per diem, during their sitting,

and mileage for travelling expenses.

PLACE AND TIME OF MEETING

To meet times in every year, at the capital of

each colony, in course, unless particular circumstances
and emergencies require more frequent meetings and
alteration in the course of places. The governor-
general to judge of those circumstances, &c, and
call by his writs.

GENERAL TREASURY

Its fund, an excise on strong liquors, pretty equally
drunk in the colonies, or duty on liquor imported,

or shillings on each license of a public house, or

excise on superfluities, &c, &c. All which would
pay in some proportion to the present wealth of each
colony, and increase as that wealth increases, and
prevent disputes about the inequality of quotas. To
be collected in each colony and lodged in their treas-
ury, to be ready for the payment of orders issuing
from the governor-general and Grand Council jointly.

1 6 The Works of

L1754

DUTY AND POWER OF THE GOVERNOR-GENERAL AND
GRAND COUNCIL

To order all Indian treaties. Make all Indian pur-
chases not within proprietary grants. Make and
support new settlements by building forts, raising
and paying soldiers to garrison the forts, defend the
frontiers, and annoy the enemy. Equip guard-
vessels to scour the coasts from privateers in time of
war, and protect the trade, and every thing that
shall be found necessary for the defence and support
of the colonies in general, and increasing and extend-
ing their settlements, &c.

For the expense, they may draw on the fund in
the treasury of any colony.

MANNER OF FORMING THIS UNION

The scheme being first well considered, corrected,
and improved by the commissioners at Albany, to
be sent home, and an act of Parliament obtained for
establishing it.1

1 This paper was communicated to James Alexander, with the fol-
lowing note :

New York, June 8, 1754.

"Mr. Alexander is requested to peruse these Hints, and make re-
marks in correcting or improving the scheme, and send the paper,
with such remarks, to Dr. Colden for his sentiments, who is desired to
forward the whole to Albany, to their very humble servant,

"B. Franklin."

!754] Benjamin Franklin 17

Letter from James Alexander to Cadwallader C olden,
Respecting the Above Hints

New York, [June] 9, 1754-

Dear Sir:

I had some conversation with Mr. Franklin and Mr.
Peters ' as to the uniting the colonies, and the difficulties
thereof, by effecting our liberties on the one hand, or
being ineffectual on the other. Whereon Mr. Franklin
promised to set down some hints of a scheme that he
thought might do, which accordingly he sent to me to be
transmitted to you, and it is enclosed.

To me it seems extremely well digested, and at first
sight avoids many difficulties that had occurred to me.

Some difficulties still remain. For example, there
cannot be found men tolerably well skilled in warlike
affairs to be chosen for the Grand Council, and there is
danger in communicating to them the schemes to be put
in execution, for fear of a discovery to the enemy.

Whether this may not be in some measure remedied by
a council of state of a few persons to be chosen by the
Grand Council at their stated meetings, which council of
state to be always attending the governor-general, and
with him to digest beforehand all matters to be laid before
the next Grand Council, and only the general, but not the
particular, plans of operation.

That the governor-general and that council of state
issue orders for the payment of moneys, so far as the
Grand Council have beforehand agreed may be issued for
any general plan to be executed. That the governor-
general and council of state, at every meeting of the
Grand Council, lay before them their accounts and trans-
actions since the last meeting ; at least so much of their

1 Mr. Peters was one of the delegates to the Albany Convention
from Pennsylvania.

VOL. III. — 2.

1 8 The Works of [1754

transactions as is safe to be made public. This council
of state to be something like that of the United Provinces,
and the Grand Council to resemble the States-General.

That the capacity and ability of the persons to be chosen
of the council of state and Grand Council be their only
qualifications, whether members of the respective bodies
that choose them or not. That the Grand Council, with
the governor-general, have power to increase, but not to
decrease, the duties laid by act of Parliament, and have
power to issue bills of credit on emergencies, to be sunk
by the increased funds, bearing a small interest, but not
to be tenders. I am, dear Sir,
Your most obedient,

and most humble servant,

James Alexander.

Remarks on the Hints for a Scheme of Union, by
Cadwallader Colden

GOVERNOR-GENERAL

It seems agreed on all hands that something is neces-
sary to be done for uniting the colonies in their mutual
defence, and it seems to be likewise agreed that it can
only be done effectually by act of Parliament. For this
reason I suppose that the necessary funds for carrying it
into execution, in pursuance of the ends proposed by it,
cannot be otherwise obtained. If it were thought that
the Assemblies of the several colonies may agree to lay
the same duties and apply them to the general defence
and security of all the colonies, no need of an act of
Parliament.

Queer e: Which best for the colonies; by Parliament, or
by the several Assemblies?

1754] Benjamin Franklin 19

The King's ministers, so long since as the year 1723 or
1724, had thoughts of sending over a governor-general of
all the colonies, and the Earl of Stair was proposed as a
fit person. It is probable, the want of a suitable sup-
port of the dignity of that office prevented that scheme's
being carried into execution, and that the ministry and
people of England think that this charge ought to be borne
by the colonies.

GRAND COUNCIL

Quare: Is the Grand Council, with the governor-gen-
eral, to have a legislative authority? If only an executive
power, objections may be made to their being elective.
It would be in a great measure a change of the constitu-
tion, to which I suspect the crown will not consent. We
see the inconveniences attending the present constitution,
and remedies may be found without changing it, but we
cannot foresee what may be the consequences of a change
in it. If the Grand Council be elected for a short time,
steady measures cannot be pursued. If elected for a
long time, and not removable by the crown, they may
become dangerous. Are they to have a negative on the
acts of the governor-general? It is to be considered that
England will keep their colonies, so far as they can, de-
pendent on them ; and this view is to be preserved in all
schemes to which the King's consent is necessary.

PLACE AND TIME OF MEETING

It may be thought dangerous to have fixed meetings of
the Grand Council, and in all the colonies at certain times
and places. It is a privilege which the Parliament has
not, nor the Privy Council, and may be thought destruc-
tive of the constitution.

20 The Works of [1754

GENERAL TREASURY

Some estimate ought to be made of the produce which
may be reasonably expected from the funds proposed to
be raised by duties on liquors, &c, to see whether it will
be sufficient for the ends proposed. This I think may be
done from the custom-houses in the most considerable
places for trade in the colonies.

MANNER OF FORMING THE UNION

No doubt any private person may, in the proper man-
ner, make any proposals which he thinks for the public
benefit ; but, if they are to be made by the commissioners
of the several colonies, who now meet at Albany, it may
be presumed that they speak the sense of their constitu-
ents. What authority have they to do this? I know of
none from either the Council or Assembly of New York.

However, these things may be properly talked of in
conversation among the commissioners for further in-
formation, and in order to induce the several Assemblies
to give proper powers to commissioners to meet after-
wards for this purpose.

Reasons and Motives on which the Plan of Union
was Formed

The commissioners from a number of the northern
colonies being met at Albany, and considering the
difficulties that have always attended the most neces-
sary general measures for the common defence, or
for the annoyance of the enemy, when they were to
be carried through the several particular Assem-
blies of all the colonies: some Assemblies being be-
fore at variance with their governors or councils, and

1754] Benjamin Franklin 21

the several branches of the government not on terms
of doing business with each other ; others taking the
opportunity, when their concurrence is wanted, to
push for favorite laws, powers, or points, that they
think could not at other times be obtained, and so
creating disputes and quarrels; one Assembly wait-
ing to see what another will do, being afraid of doing
more than its share, or desirous of doing less, or re-
fusing to do any thing, because its country is not at
present so much exposed as others, or because an-
other will reap more immediate advantage; — from
one or other of which causes, the Assemblies of six
out of seven colonies applied to had granted no
assistance to Virginia, when lately invaded by the
French, though purposely convened, and the im-
portance of the occasion earnestly urged upon them ;
— considering, moreover, that one principal encour-
agement to the French in invading and insulting the
British American dominions, was their knowledge
of our disunited state, and of our weakness arising
from such want of union; and that from hence dif-
ferent colonies were, at different times, extremely
harassed, and put to great expense both of blood
and treasure, who would have remained in peace, if
the enemy had had cause to fear the drawing on
themselves the resentment and power of the whole;
— the said commissioners, considering also the
present encroachments of the French and the mis-
chievous consequences that may be expected from
them, if not opposed with our force, came to an
unanimous resolution: That a union of the colonies
is absolutely necessary for their preservation.

22 The Works of [1754

The manner of forming and establishing this
union was the next point. When it was considered
that the colonies were seldom all in equal danger at
the same time, or equally near the danger, or equally
sensible of it, that some of them had particular in-
terests to manage, with which a union might inter-
fere, and that they were extremely jealous of each
other, it was thought impracticable to obtain a
joint agreement of all the colonies to a union, in
which the expense and burthen of defending any of
them should be divided among them all ; and if ever
acts of Assembly in all the colonies could be ob-
tained for that purpose, yet as any colony, on the
least dissatisfaction, might repeal its own act, and
thereby withdraw itself from the union, it would not
be a stable one, or such as could be depended on;
for if only one colony should, on any disgust, with-
draw itself, others might think it unjust and un-
equal that they, by continuing in the union, should
be at the expense of defending a colony which re-
fused to bear its proportional part, and would there-
fore one after another withdraw, till the whole
crumbled into its original parts. Therefore the
commissioners came to another previous resolution,
That it was necessary the Union should be established
by act of Parliament.

They then proceeded to sketch out a Plan of
Union, which they did in a plain and concise man-
ner, just sufficient to show their sentiments of the
kind of union that would best suit the circumstances
of the colonies, be most agreeable to the people, and
most effectually promote his Majesty's service and

1754] Benjamin Franklin 23

the general interest of the British empire. This was
respectfully sent to the Assemblies of the several
colonies for their consideration, and to receive such
alterations and improvements as they should think
fit and necessary ; after which it was proposed to be
transmitted to England to be perfected, and the
establishment of it there humbly solicited.

This was as much as the commissioners could
do.

It was proposed by some of the commissioners to
form the colonies into two or three distinct unions;
but for these reasons that proposal was dropped even
by those that made it, viz. :

1. In all cases where the strength of the whole
was necessary to be used against the enemy, there
would be the same difficulty in degree to bring the
several unions to unite together as now the several
colonies; and consequently the same delays on our
part and advantage to the enemy.

2. Each union would separately be weaker than
when joined by the whole, obliged to exert more force,
be oppressed by the expense, and the enemy less
deterred from attacking it.

3. Where particular colonies have selfish views,
as New York, with regard to Indian trade and lands ;
or are less exposed, being covered by others, as New
Jersey, Rhode Island, Connecticut, Maryland; or
have particular whims and prejudices against war-
like measures in general, as Pennsylvania, where the
Quakers predominate; such colonies would have
more weight in a partial union, and be better able to
oppose and obstruct the measures necessary for the

24 The Works of [1754

general good, than where they are swallowed up in
the general union.

4. The Indian trade would be better regulated
by the union of the whole than by the partial unions.
And as Canada is chiefly supported by that trade, if
it could be drawn into the hands of the English, as
it might be if the Indians were supplied on moder-
ate terms, and by honest traders appointed by and
acting for the public ; that alone would contribute
greatly to the weakening of our enemies.

5. The establishing of new colonies westward on
the Ohio and the Lakes, — a matter of considerable
importance to the increase of British trade and
power, to the breaking that of the French, and to
the protection and security of our present colonies,
would best be carried on by a joint union.

6. It was also thought that by the frequent meet-
ings together of commissioners or representatives
from all the colonies, the circumstances of the whole
would be better known, and the good of the whole
better provided for ; and that the colonies would, by
this connexion, learn to consider themselves, not as
so many independent states, but as members of the
same body; and thence be more ready to afford
assistance and support to each other, and to make
diversions in favor even of the most distant, and to
join cordially in any expedition for the benefit of all
against the common enemy.

These were the principal reasons and motives for
forming the Plan of Union as it stands. To which
may be added this, that as the union of the — [The
remainder of this article was lost.]

i7S4] Benjamin Franklin 25

Plan of Union Adopted by the Convention at Albany,
with the Reasons and Motives for Each Article
of the Plan.1

It is proposed that humble application be made
for an act of Parliament of Great Britain, by virtue
of which one general government may be formed in
America, including all the said colonies, within and
under which government each colony may retain
its present constitution, except in the particulars
wherein a change may be directed by the said act, as
hereafter follows.

PRESIDENT-GENERAL AND GRAND COUNCIL

That the said general government be administered
by a President-General, to be appointed and supported
by the crown; and a Grand Council, to be chosen by
the representatives of the people of the several colonies
met in their respective Assemblies.

It was thought that it would be best the President-

1 The several Articles, as originally adopted, are printed in Italic
type; the reasons and motives in Roman.

It is to be observed that the union was to extend to the colonies of
New Hampshire, Massachusetts, Connecticut, Rhode Island, New
York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Maryland, Virginia, North Carolina,
and South Carolina (being all the British Colonies at that time in
North America, except Georgia and Nova Scotia), "for their mutual
defence and security, and for extending the British settlements in
North America." Another plan was proposed to the Convention,
which included only New Hampshire, Massachusetts, Connecticut,
Rhode Island, New York, and New Jersey. This was printed in the
volume of the collections of the Massachusetts Historical Society for
1800. It is a rough draft of the above plan, with some unimportant
variations. It would seem, by the Hints communicated to Mr. Alex-
ander, that Franklin himself did not at first contemplate any thing
more than a union of the northern colonies. — Sparks.

26 The Works of [1754

General should be supported as well as appointed by
the crown, that so all disputes between him and the
Grand Council concerning his salary might be pre-
vented; as such disputes have been frequently of
mischievous consequence in particular colonies, es-
pecially in time of public danger. The quit-rents of
crown lands in America might in a short time be
sufficient for this purpose. The choice of members
for the Grand Council is placed in the House of
Representatives of each government, in order to
give the people a share in this new general govern-
ment, as the crown has its share by the appointment
of the President-General.

But it being proposed by the gentlemen of the
council of New York, and some other counsellors
among the commissioners, to alter the plan in this
particular, and to give the governors and council of
the several provinces a share in the choice of the
Grand Council, or at least a power of approving and
confirming, or of disallowing, the choice made by
the house of representatives, it was said :

"That the government or constitution, proposed
to be formed by the plan, consists of two branches:
a President-General appointed by the crown, and a
council chosen by the people, or by the people's
representatives, which is the same thing.

"That by a subsequent article, the council chosen
by the people can effect nothing without the consent
of the President-General appointed by the crown;
the crown possesses therefore full one half of the
power of this constitution.

"That in the British constitution, the crown is

i754] Benjamin Franklin 27

supposed to possess but one third, the lords having
their share.

"That this constitution seemed rather more
favorable for the crown.

"That it is essential to English liberty, that the
subject should not be taxed but by his own consent,
or the consent of his elected representatives.

" That taxes to be laid and levied by this proposed
constitution will be proposed and agreed to by the
representatives of the people, if the plan in this par-
ticular be preserved;

" But if the proposed alteration should take place,
it seemed as if matters may be so managed as that
the crown shall finally have the appointment, not
only of the President-General, but of a majority of
the Grand Council; for seven out of eleven governors
and councils are appointed by the crown ;

"And so the people in all the colonies would in
effect be taxed by their governors.

"It was therefore apprehended that such altera-
tions of the plan would give great dissatisfaction,
and that the colonies could not be easy under such
a power in governors, and such an infringement of
what they take to be English liberty.

" Besides, the giving a share in the choice of the
Grand Council would not be equal with respect to all
the colonies, as their constitutions differ. In some,
both governor and council are appointed by the
crown. In others, they are both appointed by the
proprietors. In some, the people have a share in
the choice of the council ; in others, both government
and council are wholly chosen by the people. But

28 The Works of [1754

the House of Representatives is everywhere chosen
by the people; and, therefore, placing the right of
choosing the Grand Council in the representatives is
equal with respect to all.

" That the Grand Council is intended to represent
all the several houses of representatives of the colo-
nies, as a house of representatives doth the several
towns or counties of a colony. Could all the people
of a colony be consulted and unite in public measures,
a house of representatives would be needless, and
could all the Assemblies conveniently consult and
unite in general measures, the Grand Council would
be unnecessary.

"That a House of Commons or the House of
Representatives and the Grand Council are thus
alike in their nature and intention. And as it would
seem improper that the King or House of Lords
should have a power of disallowing or appointing
members of the House of Commons; so likewise,
that a governor and council appointed by the Crown
should have a power of disallowing or appointing
members of the Grand Council, who, in this constitu-
tion, are to be the representatives of the people.

" If the governors and councils, therefore, were to
have a share in the choice of any that are to conduct
this general government, it should seem more proper
that they choose the President- General. But this
being an office of great trust and importance to the
nation, it was thought better to be filled by the im-
mediate appointment of the crown.

"The power proposed to be given by the plan to
the Grand Council is only a concentration of the

1754] Benjamin Franklin 29

powers of the several Assemblies in certain points
for the general welfare; as the power of the Presi-
dent-General is, of the powers of the several govern-
ors in the same points.

" And as the choice therefore of the Grand Coun-
cil by the representatives of the people neither gives
the people any new powers nor diminishes the power
of the crown, it was thought and hoped the crown
would not disapprove of it."

Upon the whole, the commissioners were of opinion
that the choice was most properly placed in the
representatives of the people.

ELECTION OF MEMBERS

That within months after the passing of such

act, the House of Representatives that happens to be
sitting within that time, or that shall be especially for
that purpose convened, may and shall choose members
for the Grand Council in the following proportion —
that is to say:

Massachusetts Bay .
Pennsylvania

. 6

New Hampshire
Maryland .

■ 4

Connecticut . . '.
Virginia . . .

• 7

Rhode Island . . .
North Carolina .

• 4

New York
South Carolina

■ 4

New Jersey . . .
—
It was thought that if the least colony was allowed
more than two, and the others in proportion, the

30 The Works of [1754

number would be very great, and the expense heavy ;
and that less than two would not be convenient, as
a single person being by any accident prevented ap-
pearing at the meeting, the colony he ought to ap-
pear for would not be represented. That as the
choice was not immediately popular, they would be
generally men of good abilities for business, and
men of reputation for integrity; and that forty-
eight such men might be a number sufficient. But
though it was thought reasonable that each colony
should have a share in the representative body in
some degree according to the proportion it con-
tributed to the general treasury, yet the proportion
of wealth or power of the colonies is not to be judged
by the proportion here fixed ; because it was at first
agreed that the greatest colony should not have
more than seven members, nor the least less than
two; and the setting these proportions between
these two extremes was not nicely attended to, as it
would find itself, after the first election, from the
sums brought into the treasury, as by a subsequent
article.

PLACE OF FIRST MEETING

— who shall meet for the first time at the city of Phila-
delphia in Pennsylvania, being called by the Presi-
dent-General as soon as conveniently may be after his
appointment.

Philadelphia was named as being nearer the centre
of the colonies, where the commissioners would be
well and cheaply accommodated. The high roads
through the whole extent, are for the most part very.

1754] Benjamin Franklin 31

good, in which forty or fifty miles a day may very
well be, and frequently are, travelled. Great part
of the way may likewise be gone by water. In
summer time the passages are frequently performed
in a week from Charleston to Philadelpiha and New
York; and from Rhode Island to New York, through
the Sound, in two or three days; and from New
York to Philadelphia, by water and land, in two
days, by stage, boats, and wheel carriages that set
out every other day. The journey from Charleston
to Philadelphia may likewise be facilitated by boats
running up Chesapeake Bay three hundred miles.
But if the whole journey be performed on horseback,
the most distant members, viz., the two from New
Hampshire and from South Carolina, may probably
render themselves at Philadelphia in fifteen to
twenty days; the majority may be there in much
less time.

NEW ELECTION

That there shall be a new election of the members of
the Grand Council every three years; and on the death
or resignation of any member, his place should be
supplied by a new choice at the next sitting of the
Assembly of the colony he represented.

Some colonies have annual assemblies, some con-
tinue during a governor's pleasure; three years was
thought a reasonable medium, as affording a new
member time to improve himself in the business,
and to act after such improvement, and yet giving
opportunities, frequently enough, to change him if
he has misbehaved.

32 The Works of [1754

PROPORTION OF MEMBERS AFTER THE FIRST THREE

YEARS

That after the first three years, when the proportion
of money arising out of each colony to the general
treasury can be known, the number of members to be
chosen for each colony shall from time to time, in all
ensuing elections, be regulated by that proportion, yet
so as that the number to be chosen by any one province
be not more than seven, nor less than two.

By a subsequent article it is proposed that the
General Council shall lay and levy such general
duties as to them may appear most equal and least
burthensome, &c. Suppose, for instance, they lay a
small duty or excise on some commodity imported
into or made in the colonies, and pretty generally
and equally used in all of them, as rum, perhaps, or
wine; the yearly produce of this duty or excise, if
fairly collected, would be in some colonies greater,
in others less, as the colonies are greater or smaller.
When the collector's accounts are brought in, the
proportions will appear; and from them it is pro-
posed to regulate the proportion of representatives
to be chosen at the next general election, within the
limits, however, of seven and two. These numbers
may therefore vary in the course of years, as the
colonies may in the growth and increase of people.
And thus the quota of tax from each colony would
naturally vary with its circumstances, thereby pre-
venting all disputes and dissatisfaction about the
just proportions due from each ; which might other-
wise produce pernicious consequences, and destroy

1754] Benjamin Franklin 33

the harmony and good agreement that ought to
subsist between the several parts of the Union.

MEETINGS OF THE GRAND COUNCIL, AND CALL

That the Grand Council shall meet once in every
year, and opener if occasion require, at such time and
place as they shall adjourn to at the last preceding
meeting, or as they shall be called to meet at by the
President-General on any emergency, he having first
obtained in writing the consent of seven of the members
to such call, and sent due and timely notice to the whole.

It was thought, in establishing and governing new
colonies or settlements, regulating Indian trade, In-
dian treaties, &c., there would be every year suffi-
cient business arise to require at least one meeting,
and at such meeting many things might be sug-
gested for the benefit of all the colonies. This an-
nual meeting may either be at a time or place certain,
to be fixed by the President-General and Grand
Council at their first meeting; or left at liberty, to be
at such time and place as they shall adjourn to, or be
called to meet at by the President-General.

In time of war it seems convenient that the meet-
ing should be in that colony which is nearest the seat
of action.

The power of calling them on any emergency
seemed necessary to be vested in the President-
General ; but that such power might not be wantonly
used to harass the members, and oblige them to
make frequent long journeys to little purpose, the
consent of seven at least to such call was supposed a
convenient guard.

vol. in. — 3.

34 The Works of [1754

CONTINUANCE

That the Grand Council have power to choose their
speaker, and shall neither be dissolved, prorogued, nor
continued sitting longer than six weeks at one time,
without their own consent or the special command of
the crown.

The speaker should be presented for approbation;
it being convenient, to prevent misunderstandings
and disgusts, that the mouth of the Council should
be a person agreeable, if possible, both to the
Council and President-General.

Governors have sometimes wantonly exercised the
power of proroguing or continuing the sessions of as-
semblies merely to harass the members and compel a
compliance; and sometimes dissolve them on slight
disgusts. This it was feared might be done by the
President-General, if not provided against, and
the inconvenience and hardship would be greater in
the general government than in particular colonies,
in proportion to the distance the members must be
from home during sittings, and the long journeys
some of them must necessarily take.

members' allowance

That the members of the Grand Council shall be
allowed for their service ten shillings sterling per diem
during their session and journey to and from the place
of meeting; twenty miles to be reckoned a day's journey.

It was thought proper to allow some wages, lest
the expense might deter some suitable persons from
the service; and not to allow too great wages, lest

i754] Benjamin Franklin 35

unsuitable persons should be tempted to cabal for
the employment, for the sake of gain. Twenty miles
were set down as a day's journey, to allow for acci-
dental hindrances on the road and the greater ex-
penses of travelling than residing at the place of
meeting.

ASSENT OF PRESIDENT-GENERAL AND HIS DUTY

That the assent of the President-General be requisite
to all acts of the Grand Council, and that it be his
office and duty to cause them to be carried into execu-
tion.

The assent of the President-General to all acts of
the Grand Council was made necessary, in order to
give the crown its due share of influence in this gov-
ernment, and connect it with that of Great Britain.
The President-General, besides one half of the legis-
lative power, hath in his hands the whole executive
power.

POWER OF PRESIDENT-GENERAL AND GRAND COUNCIL;
TREATIES OF PEACE AND WAR

That the President-General, with the advice of the
Grand Council, hold or direct all Indian treaties in
which the general interest of the colonies may be con-
cerned; and make peace or declare war with Indian
nations.

The power of making peace or war with Indian na-
tions is at present supposed to be in every colony,
and is expressly granted to some by charter, so that
no new power is hereby intended to be granted to

36 The Works of [1754

the colonies. But as, in consequence of this power,
one colony might make peace with a nation that
another was justly engaged in war with, or make
war on slight occasions without the concurrence or
approbation of neighbouring colonies greatly en-
dangered by it, or make particular treaties of neu-
trality, in case of a general war, to their own private
advantage in trade, by supplying the common
enemy, — of all which there have been instances, —
it was thought better to have all treaties of a general
nature under a general direction, that so the good of
the whole may be consulted and provided for.

INDIAN TRADE

That they make such laws as they judge necessary
for regulating all Indian trade.

Many quarrels and wars have arisen between the
colonies and Indian nations through the bad con-
duct of traders, who cheat the Indians after making
them drunk, &c, to the great expense of the colo-
nies, both in blood and treasure. Particular colo-
nies are so interested in the trade, as not to be willing
to admit such a regulation as might be best for the
whole; and therefore it was thought best under a
general direction.

INDIAN PURCHASES

That they make all purchases, from Indians for the
crown, of lands not now within the bounds of par-
ticular colonies, or that shall not be within their bounds

1754] Benjamin Franklin 37

when some of them are reduced to more convenient
dimensions.

Purchases from the Indians, made by private per-
sons, have been attended with many inconveniences.
They have frequently interfered and occasioned un-
certainty of titles, many disputes and expensive
lawsuits, and hindered the settlement of the land so
disputed. Then the Indians have been cheated by
such private purchases, and discontent and wars
have been the consequence. These would be pre-
vented by public, fair purchases.

Several of the colony charters in America extend
their bounds to the South Sea, which may be per-
haps, three or four thousand miles in length to one or
two hundred miles in breadth. It is supposed they
must in time be reduced to dimensions more con-
venient for the common purposes of government.

Very little of the land in those grants is yet pur-
chased of the Indians.

It is much cheaper to purchase of them, than to
take and maintain the possession by force ; for they
are generally very reasonable in their demands for
land; and the expense of guarding a large frontier
against their incursions is vastly great ; because all
must be guarded, and always guarded, as we know
not where or when to expect them.1

1 To guard against the incursions of the Indians, a plan was sent
over to America (and, as I think, by authority), suggesting the ex-
pediency of clearing away the woods and bushes from a tract of land,
a mile in breadth, and extending along the back of the colonies. Un-
fortunately, besides the large expense of the undertaking (which, if
one acre cost £2 sterling, and six hundred and forty acres make a
square mile, is £128,000 first cost for every hundred miles), it was for-
gotten that the Indians, like other people, knew the difference between

38 The Works of [1754

NEW SETTLEMENTS

That they make new settlements on such purchases,
by granting lands in the King's name, reserving a quit-
rent to the crown for the use of the general treasury.

It is supposed better that there should be one
purchaser than many ; and that the crown should be
that purchaser, or the Union in the name of the
crown. By this means the bargains may be more
easily made, the price not enhanced by numerous
bidders, future disputes about private Indian pur-
chases, and monopolies of vast tracts to particular
persons (which are prejudicial to the settlement and
peopling of the country), prevented; and the land
being again granted in small tracts to the settlers,
the quit-rents reserved may in time become a fund
for support of government, for defence of the coun-
try, ease of taxes, &c.

Strong forts on the Lakes, the Ohio, &c, may, at
the same time they secure our present frontiers,
serve to defend new colonies settled under their
protection; and such colonies would also mutually
defend and support such forts, and better secure the
friendship of the far Indians.

A particular colony has scarce strength enough to
extend itself by new settlements, at so great a dis-
tance from the old; but the joint force of the Union

day and night, and that a mile of advance and another of retreat were
nothing to the celerity of such an enemy. This plan, it is said, was the
work of Dean Tucker. — B. V.

If the absurdity of such a scheme is not in itself sufficiently glaring,
it may be added, that bushes would soon start up and grow into trees
again, and the expense of clearing must be often repeated.

1754] Benjamin Franklin 39

might suddenly establish a new colony or two in
those parts, or extend an old colony to particular
passes, greatly to the security of our present fron-
tiers, increase of trade and people, breaking off the
French communication between Canada and Louis-
iana, and speedy settlement of the intermediate
lands.

The power of settling new colonies is, therefore,
thought a valuable part of the plan, and what can-
not so well be executed by two unions as by one.

LAWS TO GOVERN THEM

That they make laws for regulating and governing
such new settlements till the crown shall think fit to
form them into particular governments.

The making of laws suitable for the new colonies
it was thought, would be properly vested in the
President-General and Grand Council, under whose
protection they must at first necessarily be, and who
would be well acquainted with their circumstances,
as having settled them. When they are become
sufficiently populous, they may by the crown be
formed into complete and distinct governments.

The appointment of a sub-president by the crown,
to take place in case of the death or absence of the
President-General, would perhaps be an improve-
ment of the plan; and if all the governors of par-
ticular provinces were to be formed into a standing
council of state, for the advice and assistance of the
President-General, it might be another considerable
improvement.

40 The Works of [1754

RAISE SOLDIERS AND EQUIP VESSELS, &C.

That they raise and pay soldiers and build forts for
the defence of any of the colonies, and equip vessels of
force to guard the coasts and protect the trade on the ocean,
lakes, or great rivers; but they shall not impress men
in any colony without the consent of the legislature.

It was thought that quotas of men, to be raised
and paid by the several colonies, and joined for any
public service, could not always be got together with
the necessary expedition. For instance, suppose one
thousand men should be wanted in New Hampshire
on any emergency. To fetch them by fifties and
hundreds out of every colony, as far as South Caro-
lina, would be inconvenient, the transportation
chargeable, and the occasion perhaps passed before
they could be assembled ; and therefore that it would
be best to raise them (by offering bounty- money and
pay) near the place where they would be wanted, to
be discharged again when the service should be over.

Particular colonies are at present backward to
build forts at their own expense, which they say will
be equally useful to their neighbouring colonies, who
refuse to join, on a presumption that such forts will
be built and kept up, though they contribute nothing.
This unjust conduct weakens the whole ; but the
forts being for the good of the whole, it was thought
best they should be built and maintained by the
whole out of the common treasury.

In the time of war, small vessels of force are
sometimes necessary in the colonies to scour the
coasts of small privateers. These being provided

1 7 54] Benjamin Franklin 41

by the Union will be an advantage in turn to the
colonies which are situated on the sea, and whose
frontiers on the landside, being covered by other
colonies, reap but little immediate benefit from the
advanced forts.

POWER TO MAKE LAWS, LAY DUTIES, &C.

That for these purposes they have power to make
laws, and lay and levy such general duties, imposts,
or taxes as to them shall appear most equal and just
(considering the ability and other circumstances of the
inhabitants in the several colonies), and such as may
be collected with the least inconvenience to the people;
rather discouraging luxury than loading industry with
unnecessary burthens.

The laws which the President-General and Grand
Council are empowered to make are such only as
shall be necessary for the government of the settle-
ments; the raising, regulating, and paying soldiers
for the general service; the regulating of Indian
trade, and laying and collecting the general duties
and taxes. They should also have a power to re-
strain the exportation of provisions to the enemy from
any of the colonies, on particular occasions, in time of
war. But it is not intended that they may interfere
with the constitution and government of the particu-
lar colonies, who are to be left to their own laws,
and to lay, levy, and apply their own taxes as before.

GENERAL TREASURER AND PARTICULAR TREASURER

That they may appoint a General Treasurer
and Particular Treasurer in each government, when
The Works of [1754

necessary; and from time to time may order the sums
in the treasuries of each government into the general
treasury, or draw on them for special payments, as
they find most convenient.

The treasurers here meant are only for the gen-
eral funds, and not for the particular funds of each
colony, which remain in the hands of their own
treasurers at their own disposal.

MONEY, HOW TO ISSUE

Yet no money to issue but by joint orders of the
President-General and Grand Council; except where
sums have been appropriated to particular purposes,
and the President-General is previously empowered by
an act to draw such sums.

To prevent misapplication of the money, or even
application that might be dissatisfactory to the
crown or the people, it was thought necessary to join
the President-General and Grand Council in all
issues of money.

ACCOUNTS

That the general accounts shall be yearly settled and
reported to the several Assemblies.

By communicating the accounts yearly to each
Assembly, they will be satisfied of the prudent and
honest conduct of their representatives in the Grand

Council.

quorum

That a quorum of the Grand Council, empowered to
act with the President-General, do consist of twenty-

1754] Benjamin Franklin 43

five members, among whom there shall be one or more
from a majority of the colonies.

The quorum seems large, but it was thought it
would not be satisfactory to the colonies in general
to have matters of importance to the whole trans-
acted by a smaller number, or even by this number
of twenty-five, unless there were among them one
at least from a majority of the colonies; because
otherwise, the whole quorum being made up of mem-
bers from three or four colonies at one end of the
union, something might be done that would not be
equal with respect to the rest, and thence dissatis-
faction and discords might arise to the prejudice
of the whole.

LAWS TO BE TRANSMITTED

That the laws made by them for the purposes afore-
said shall not be repugnant, but, as near as may be,
agreeable to the laws of England, and shall be trans-
mitted to the King in Council for approbation as soon as
may be after their passing; and if not disapproved within
three years after presentation, to remain in force.

This was thought necessary for the satisfaction of
the crown, to preserve the connexion of the parts of
the British empire with the whole, of the members
with the head, and to induce greater care and cir-
cumspection in making of the laws, that they be good
in themselves and for the general benefit.

DEATH OF THE PRESIDENT-GENERAL

That in case of the death of the President-General,
the Speaker of the Grand Council for the time being

44 The Works of [1754

shall succeed, and be vested with the same powers and
authorities, to continue till the King's pleasure be
known.

It might be, perhaps, as was said before, if the
crown appointed a vice-president, to take place on
the death or absence of the President-General; for
so we should be more sure of a suitable person at the
head of the colonies. On the death or absence of both,
the speaker to take place (or rather the eldest King's
governor) till his Majesty's pleasure be known.

OFFICERS, HOW APPOINTED

That all military commission officers, whether for
land or sea service, to act under this general constitu-
tion, shall be nominated by the President-General; but
the approbation of the Grand Council is to be obtained
before they receive their commissions. And all civil
officers are to be nominated by the Grand Council, and
to receive the President-General's approbation before
they officiate.

It was thought it might be very prejudicial to the
service to have officers appointed unknown to the
people, or unacceptable ; the generality of Americans
serving willingly under officers they know, and not
caring to engage in the service under strangers, or
such as are often appointed by governors through
favor or interest. The service here meant is not the
stated, settled service in standing troops, but any
sudden and short service, either for defence of our
colonies or invading the enemy's country (such as
the expedition to Cape Breton in the last war, in
which many substantial farmers and tradesmen en-

1754] Benjamin Franklin 45

gaged as common soldiers, under officers of their own
country, for whom they had an esteem and affection,
who would not have engaged in a standing army or
under officers from England). It was therefore
thought best to give the Council the power of ap-
proving the officers, which the people will look upon
as a great security of their being good men. And
without some such provision as this, it was thought
the expense of engaging men in the service on any
emergency would be much greater, and the number
who could be induced to engage much less, and that
therefore it would be most for the King's service and
general benefit of the nation that the prerogative
should relax a little in this particular throughout
all the colonies in America, as it had already done
much more in the charters of some particular colo-
nies, viz., Connecticut and Rhode Island.

The civil officers will be chiefly treasurers and col-
lectors of taxes; and the suitable persons are most
likely to be known by the Council.

VACANCIES, HOW SUPPLIED

But in case of vacancy by death or removal of any
officer, civil or military, under this constitution, the
Governor of the province in which such vacancy hap-
pens may appoint, till the pleasure of the President-
General and Grand Council can be known.

The vacancies were thought best supplied by the
governors in each province, till a new appointment
can be regularly made; otherwise the service might
suffer before the meeting of the President-General
and Grand Council.

46 The Works of [1754

EACH COLONY MAY DEFEND ITSELF ON EMERGENCY, &C.

That the particular military as well as civil estab-
lishments in each colony remain in their present state,
the general constitution notwithstanding; and that on
sudden emergencies any colony may defend itself, and
lay the accounts of expense thence arising before the
President-General and General Council, who may
allow and order payment of the same, as far as they
judge such accounts just and reasonable.

Otherwise the union of the whole would weaken
the parts, contrary to the design of the Union. The
accounts are to be judged of by the President-Gen-
eral and Grand Council, and allowed if found reason-
able. This was thought necessary to encourage
colonies to defend themselves, as the expense would
be light when borne by the whole; and also to check
imprudent and lavish expense in such defences.

CXIII

THREE LETTERS TO GOVERNOR SHIRLEY

LETTER I l

CONCERNING THE VOICE OF THE PEOPLE IN CHOOSING THE
RULERS BY WHOM TAXES ARE IMPOSED

Tuesday Morning [December 17, 1754]-

Sir: — I return you the loose sheets of the plan,
with thanks to your Excellency for communicating
them.

1 It is stated by Mr. Benjamin Vaughan, that these letters first ap-
peared in the London Chronicle for February 6 and 8, 1766, with prefa-
tory remarks signed "A Lover of Britain."

"The Albany Plan of Union," says this writer, "was sent to the

1754] Benjamin Franklin 47

I apprehend, that excluding the people of the
colonies from all share in the choice of the grand
council will give extreme dissatisfaction, as well as
the taxing them by act of Parliament, where they
have no representation. It is very possible that this
general government might be as well and faithfully
administered without the people as with them; but
where heavy burthens are to be laid upon them, it
has been found useful to make it as much as possible

government here for approbation. Had it been approved and estab-
lished by the authority from hence, English America thought itself
sufficiently able to cope with the French, without other assistance;
several of the colonies having alone, in former wars, withstood the
whole power of the enemy, unassisted not only by the mother country,
but by any of the neighboring provinces. The plan, however, was not
approved here; but a new one was formed instead of it; by which it
was proposed, that ' the governors of all the colonies, attended by one
or two members of their respective councils, should assemble, and con-
cert measures for the defence of the whole, erect forts where they
judged proper, and raise what troops they thought necessary, with
power to draw on the treasury here for the sums that should be wanted,
and the treasury to be reimbursed by a tax laid on the colonies by act
of Parliament.' — This new plan, being communicated by Governor
Shirley to a gentleman of Philadelphia (Dr. Franklin) then in Boston
(who has very eminently distinguished himself, before and since that
time, in the literary world, and whose judgment, penetration, and
candor, as well as his readiness and ability to suggest, forward, or
carry into execution, every scheme of public utility, hath most de-
servedly endeared him, not only to our fellow-subjects throughout the
continent of North America, but to his numberless friends on this side
the Atlantic), occasioned the following remarks from him, which per-
haps may contribute in some degree to its being laid aside. As they
very particularly show the then sentiments of the Americans on the
subject of a parliamentary tax, before the French power in that
country was subjected, and before the late restraints on their com-
merce, they satisfy me, and I hope they will convince your readers,
contrary to what has been advanced by some of your correspondents,
that those particulars have had no share in producing the present
opposition to such a tax, nor in disturbances occasioned by it, which
these papers indeed do almost prophetically foretell."

48 The Works of [i754

their own act ; for they bear better, when they have,
or think they have, some share in the direction ; and
when any public measures are generally grievous, or
even distasteful, to the people, the wheels of govern-
ment move more heavily.

LETTER II

ON THE IMPOSITION OF DIRECT TAXES UPON THE COLONIES
WITHOUT THEIR CONSENT

Wednesday Morning [December 18, 1754].

Sir: — I mentioned it yesterday to your Excellency
as my opinion, that excluding the people of the colo-
nies from all share in the choice of the grand council
would probably give extreme dissatisfaction, as well
as the taxing them by act of Parliament, where they
have no representation. In matters of general con-
cern to the people, and especially where burthens
are to be laid upon them, it is of use to consider, as
well what they will be apt to think and say, as what
they ought to think. I shall therefore, as your Ex-
cellency requires it of me, briefly mention what of
either kind occurs to me on this occasion.

First, they will say, and perhaps with justice, that
the body of the people in the colonies are as loyal,
and as firmly attached to the present constitution
and reigning family, as any subjects in the King's
dominions.

That there is no reason to doubt the readiness and
willingness of the representatives they may choose
to grant from time to time such supplies for the de-

i7S4] Benjamin Franklin 49

fence of the country as shall be judged necessary, so
far as their abilities will allow.

That the people in the colonies who are to feel the
immediate mischiefs of invasion and conquest by an
enemy, in the loss of their estates, lives, and liber-
ties, are likely to be better judges of the quantity of
forces necessary to be raised and maintained, forts
to be built and supported, and of their own abilities
to bear the expense, than the Parliament of Eng-
land, at so great a distance.

That governors often come to the colonies merely
to make fortunes, with which they intend to return
to Britain; are not always men of the best ability
and integrity; have many of them no estates here,
nor any natural connexion with us that should make
them heartily concerned for our welfare; and might
possibly be fond of raising and keeping up more
forces than necessary, from the profits accruing to
themselves, and to make provision for their friends
and dependents.

That the counsellors in most of the colonies being
appointed by the crown, on the recommendation of
governors, are often persons of small estates, fre-
quently dependent on the governors for office, and
therefore too much under influence.

That there is therefore great reason to be jealous
of a power in such governors and councils to raise
such sums as they shall judge necessary, by drafts on
the Lords of the Treasury, to be afterwards laid on
the colonies by act of Parliament, and paid by the
people here; since they might abuse it by projecting
useless expeditions, harassing the people, and taking

5o The Works of [1754

them from their labor to execute such projects,
merely to create offices and employments, and gratify
their dependents, and divide profits.

That the Parliament of England is at a great dis-
tance, subject to be misinformed and misled by such
governors and councils, whose united interests might
possibly secure them against the effect of any com-
plaint from hence.

That it is supposed an undoubted right of English-
men not to be taxed but by their own consent, given
through their representatives.

That the colonies have no representatives in
Parliament.

That to propose taxing them by Parliament, and
refuse them the liberty of choosing a representative
council to meet in the colonies, and consider and
judge of the necessity of any general tax and the
quantum, shows a suspicion of their loyalty to the
crown, or of their regard for their country, or of their
common sense and understanding, which they have
not deserved.

That compelling the colonies to pay money with-
out their consent, would be rather like raising con-
tributions in an enemy's country, than taxing of
Englishmen for their own public benefit.

That it would be treating them as a conquered
people, and not as true British subjects.

That a tax laid by the representatives of the colo-
nies might be easily lessened as the occasions should
lessen ; but being once laid by Parliament, under the
influence of the representations made by governors,
would probably be kept up and continued for the

i7S4] Benjamin Franklin 51

benefit of governors, to the grievous burthen and
discontent of the colonies, and preventions of their
growth and increase.

That a power in governors to march the inhabi-
tants from one end of the British and French colonies
to the other, being a country of at least one thousand
five hundred miles long, without the approbation or
the consent of their representatives first obtained to
such expeditions, might be grievous and ruinous to
the people, and would put them upon a footing with
the subjects of France in Canada, that now groan
under such oppression from their governor, who for
two years past has harassed them with long and
destructive marches to Ohio.

That if the colonies in a body may be well gov-
erned by governors and councils appointed by the
crown, without representatives, particular colonies
may as well or better be so governed ; a tax may be
laid upon them all by act of Parliament for support
of government, and their Assemblies may be dis-
missed as an useless part of the constitution.

That the powers, proposed by the Albany Plan of
Union to be vested in a grand council representative
of the people, even with regard to military matters,
are not so great as those which the colonies of Rhode
Island and Connecticut are intrusted with by their
charters, and have never abused; for, by this plan,
the president-general is appointed by the crown, and
controls all by his negative; but in those govern-
ments the people choose the governor, and yet allow
him no negative.

That the British colonies bordering on the French

52 The Works of [1754

are properly frontiers of the British empire ; and the
frontiers of an empire are properly defended at the
joint expense of the body of the people in such em-
pire. It would now be thought hard by act of Par-
liament to oblige the Cinque Ports or sea-coasts of
Britain to maintain the whole navy, because they are
more immediately defended by it, not allowing them
at the same time a vote in choosing members of the
Parliament ; and as the frontiers of America bear the
expense of their own defence, it seems hard to allow
them no share in voting the money, judging of the
necessity and sum, or advising the measures.

That, besides the taxes necessary for the defence
of the frontiers, the colonies pay yearly great sums to
the mother country unnoticed ; for

1 . Taxes paid in Britain by the landholder or arti-
ficer must enter into and increase the price of the
produce of land and manufactures made of it; and
great part of this is paid by consumers in the colo-
nies, who thereby pay a considerable part of the Brit-
ish taxes.

2. We are restrained in our trade with foreign
nations ; and where we could be supplied with any
manufacture cheaper from them, but must buy the
same dearer from Britain, the difference of price is a
clear tax to Britain.

3. We are obliged to carry a great part of our pro-
duce directly to Britain ; and where the duties laid
upon it lessen its price to the planter, or it sells for
less than it would in foreign markets, the difference is
a tax paid to Britain.

4. Some manufactures we could make, but are for-

1754] Benjamin Franklin 53

bidden, and must take them of British merchants ; the
whole price is a tax paid to Britain.

5. By our greatly increasing the demand and con-
sumption of British manufactures, their price is con-
siderably raised of late years ; the advantage is clear
profit to Britain, and enables its people better to pay
great taxes ; and much of it being paid by us, is clear
tax to Britain.

6. In short, as we are not suffered to regulate our
trade and restrain the importation and consumption
of British superfluities, as Britain can the consump-
tion of foreign superfluities, our whole wealth centres
finally amongst the merchants and inhabitants of
Britain ; and if we make them richer, and enable them
better to pay their taxes, it is nearly the same as be-
ing taxed ourselves, and equally beneficial to the
crown.

These kinds of secondary taxes, however, we do
not complain of, though we have no share in the lay-
ing or disposing of them ; but to pay immediate heavy
taxes, in the laying, appropriation, and disposition of
which we have no part, and which perhaps we may
know to be as unnecessary as grievous, must seem
hard measures to Englishmen, who cannot conceive
that by hazarding their lives and fortunes in subdu-
ing and settling new countries, extending the do-
minion and increasing the commerce of the mother
nation, they have forfeited the native rights of
Britons, which they think ought rather to be given
to them, as due to such merit, if they had been before
in a state of slavery.

These, and such kinds of things as these, I appre-

54 The Works of [1754

hend will be thought and said by the people, if the
proposed alteration of the Albany plan should take
place. Then the administration of the board of gov-
ernors and council so appointed, not having the re-
presentative body of the people to approve and unite
in its measures, and conciliate the minds of the peo-
ple to them, will probably become suspected and
odious, dangerous animosities and feuds will arise
between the governors and governed, and every thing
go into confusion.

Perhaps I am too apprehensive in this matter ; but
having freely given my opinion and reasons, your
Excellency can judge better than I whether there be
any weight in them; and the shortness of the time
allowed me will, I hope, in some degree excuse the
imperfections of this scrawl.

With the greatest respect and fidelity, I have the
honor to be

Your Excellency's most obedient
and most humble servant,

B. Franklin.1

1 Respecting this letter, Mr. John Adams said (in his History of the
Dispute with America, first published in 1774): "Dr. Franklin, who
was known to be an active and very able man, and to have great
influence in the province of Pennsylvania, was in Boston in the year
1754, and Mr. Shirley communicated to him the profound secret, the
great design of taxing the colonies by act of Parliament. This saga-
cious gentleman and distinguished patriot, to his lasting honor, sent
the governor an answer in writing, with the following remarks on his
scheme:" Mr. Adams then quotes the principal parts of the above
letter. — Editor.

i754] Benjamin Franklin 55

LETTER III

ON THE SUBJECT OF UNITING THE COLONIES MORE INTIMATELY
WITH GREAT BRITAIN, BY ALLOWING THEM REPRESENTA-
TIVES IN PARLIAMENT

Boston, December 22, 1754.

Sir : — Since the conversation your Excellency was
pleased to honor me with, on the subject of uniting
the colonies more intimately with Great Britain, by al-
lowing them representatives in Parliament, I have
something further considered that matter, and am of
opinion that such a union would be very acceptable
to the colonies, provided they had a reasonable num-
ber of representatives allowed them ; and that all the
old acts of Parliament restraining the trade or cramp-
ing the manufactures of the colonies be at the same
time repealed, and the British subjects on this side the
water put, in those respects, on the same footing with
those in Great Brtiain, till the new Parliament, re-
presenting the whole, shall think it for the interest of
the whole to re-enact some or all of them. It is not
that I imagine so many representatives will be al-
lowed the colonies as to have any great weight by
their numbers, but I think there might be sufficient
to occasion those laws to be better and more impar-
tially considered, and perhaps to overcome the inter-
est of a petty corporation, or of any particular set of
artificers or traders in England, who heretofore seem,
in some instances, to have been more regarded than
all the colonies, or than was consistent with the gen-
eral interest or best national good. I think, too, that
the government of the colonies by a Parliament in

56 The Works of [1754

which they are fairly represented, would be vastly
more agreeable to the people than the method lately
attempted to be introduced by royal instruction, as
well as more agreeable to the nature of an English
constitution and to English liberty; and that such
laws as now seem to bear hard on the colonies, would
(when judged by such a Parliament for the best in-
terest of the whole) be more cheerfully submitted to
and more easily executed.

I should hope, too, that by such a union the
people of Great Britain and the people of the colo-
nies would learn to consider themselves as not be-
longing to different communities with different
interests, but to one community with one interest;
which I imagine would contribute to strengthen
the whole, and greatly lessen the danger of future
separations.

It is, I suppose, agreed to be the general interest
of any state, that its people be numerous and rich;
men enow to fight in its defence, and enow to pay
sufficient taxes to defray the charge; for these cir-
cumstances tend to the security of the state and its
protection from foreign power. But it seems not of
so much importance whether the fighting be done
by John or Thomas, or the tax paid by William or
Charles. The iron manufacture employs and en-
riches British subjects, but is it of any importance
to the state whether the manufacturer lives at Bir-
mingham, or Sheffield, or both, since they are still
within its bounds, and their wealth and persons still
at its command? Could the Goodwin Sands be laid
dry by banks, and land equal to a large country

1754] Benjamin Franklin 57

thereby gained to England, and presently filled with
English inhabitants, would it be right to deprive
such inhabitants of the common privileges enjoyed
by other Englishmen, — the right of vending their
produce in the same ports, or of making their own
shoes, because a merchant or a shoemaker living on
the old land might fancy it more for his advantage
to trade or make shoes for them? Would this be
right even if the land were gained at the expense of
the state? And would it not seem less right if the
charge and labor of gaining the additional territory
to Britain had been borne by the settlers them-
selves? And would not the hardship appear yet
greater if the people of the new country should be
allowed no representatives in the Parliament enact-
ing such impositions?

Now, I look on the colonies as so many countries
gained to Great Britain, and more advantageous to
it than if they had been gained out of the seas around
its coasts and joined to its lands; for, being in dif-
ferent climates, they afford greater variety of pro-
duce and materials for more manufactures, and being
separated by the ocean, they increase much more its
shipping and seamen ; and since they are all included
in the British empire, which has only extended itself
by their means, and the strength and wealth of the
parts are the strength and wealth of the whole, what
imports it to the general state whether a merchant, a
smith, or a hatter grows rich in Old or New Eng-
land? And if, through increase of the people, two
smiths are wanted for one employed before, why may
not the new smith be allowed to live and thrive in

58 The Works of [17 55

the new country, as well as the old one in the old? In
fine, why should the countenance of a state be par-
tially afforded to its people, unless it be most in favor
of those who have most merit? And if there be any
difference, those who have most contributed to en-
large Britain's empire and commerce, increase her
strength, her wealth, and the numbers of her people,
at the risk of their own lives and private fortunes in
new and strange countries, methinks ought rather to
expect some preference. With the greatest respect
and esteem, I have the honor to be

Your Excellency's most obedient

and humble servant,

B. Franklin.

CXIV

TO MISS CATHERINE RAY, AT BLOCK ISLAND

Philadelphia, 4 March, 1755.

Dear Katy:— Your kind letter of January 20th is
but just come to hand, and I take this first oppor-
tunity of acknowledging the favor. It gives me great
pleasure to hear that you got home safe and well that
day. I thought too much was hazarded, when I saw
you put off to sea in that very little skiff, tossed by
every wave. But the call was strong and just — a sick
parent. I stood on the shore and looked after you
till I could no longer distinguish you even with my
glass ; then returned to your sister's, praying for your
safe passage. Towards evening all agreed that you
must certainly be arrived before that time, the weather

1755] Benjamin Franklin 59

having been so favorable, which made me more easy
and cheerful, for I had been truly concerned for you.

I left New England slowly, and with great reluc-
tance. Short day's journeys, and loitering visits on
the road, for three or four weeks, manifested my un-
willingness to quit a country in which I drew my first
breath, spent my earliest and most pleasant days, and
had now received so many fresh marks of the people's
goodness and benevolence, in the kind and affection-
ate treatment I had everywhere met with. I almost
forgot I had a home, till I was more than half way
towards it ; till I had, one by one, parted with all my
New England friends, and was got into the western
borders of Connecticut, among mere strangers. Then,
like an old man, who, having buried all he loved in
this world, begins to think of heaven, I began to think
of and wish for home; and as I drew nearer, I found
the attraction stronger and stronger. My diligence
and speed increased with my impatience. I drove on
violently, and made such long stretches, that a very
few days brought me to my own house, and to the
arms of my good old wife and children, where I
remain, thanks to God, at present well and happy.

Persons subject to the hyp complain of the north-
east wind, as increasing their malady. But since you
promised to send me kisses in that wind, and I find
you as good as your word, it is to me the gayest wind
that blows, and gives me the best spirits. I write
this during a northeast storm of snow, the greatest
we have had this winter. Your favors come mixed
with the snowy fleeces, which are pure as your virgin
innocence, white as your lovely bosom, and — as cold.

60 The Works of [1755

But let it warm towards some worthy young man,
and may Heaven bless you both with every kind of
happiness.

I desired Miss Anna Ward to send you over a little
book I left with her, for your amusement in that
lonely island. My respects to your good father, and
mother, and sister. Let me often hear of your wel-
fare, since it is not likely I shall ever again have the
pleasure of seeing you. Accept mine and my wife's
sincere thanks for the many civilities I receive from
you and your relations; and do me the justice to
believe me, dear girl, your affectionate, faithful friend
and humble servant, B. Franklin.

p s — My respectful compliments to your good
brother Ward, and sister; and to the agreeable
family of the Wards at Newport, when you see them.
Adieu.

cxv

ELECTRICAL EXPERIMENTS

Made in Pursuance of those made by Mr. Canton, dated
December 6, 1753; with Explanations, by Benja-
min Franklin

READ AT THE ROYAL SOCIETY, DECEMBER l8, 1755

Philadelphia, 14 March, 1755.
PRINCIPLES

I. Electric atmospheres that flow round non-elec-
tric bodies, being brought near each other, do not

I755] Benjamin Franklin 61

readily mix and unite into one atmosphere, but re-
main separate and repel each other.

This is plainly seen in suspended cork balls and
other bodies electrified.

II. An electric atmosphere not only repels another
electric atmosphere, but will also repel the electric
matter contained in the substance of a body ap-
proaching it, and, without joining or mixing with it,
force it to other parts of the body that contained it.

This is shown by some of the following experiments.

III. Bodies electrified negatively, or deprived of
their natural quantity of electricity, repel each other
(or at least appear to do so by a mutual receding) , as
well as those electrified positively, or which have
electric atmospheres.

This is shown by applying the negatively charged
wire of a phial to two cork balls suspended by silk
threads, and many other experiments.

Fix a tassel of fifteen or twenty threads, three
inches long, at one end of a tin prime conductor
(mine is about five feet long and four inches diameter)
supported by silk lines.

Let the threads be a little damp, but not wet.

Pass an excited glass tube near the other end of the
prime conductor, so as to give it some sparks, and the
threads will diverge.

Because each thread, as well as the prime con-
ductor, has acquired an electric atmosphere, which
repels and is repelled by the atmospheres of the other
threads ; if those several atmospheres would readily
mix, the threads might unite, and hang in the middle
of one atmosphere, common to them all.

62 The Works of [1755

Rub the tube afresh, and approach the prime conductor
therewith, crosswise, near that end, but not nigh enough
to give sparks, and the threads will diverge a little more.

Because the atmosphere of the prime conductor is
pressed by the atmosphere of the excited tube, and
driven towards the end where the threads are, by
which each thread acquires more atmosphere.

Withdraw the tube, and they will close as much.

They close as much, and no more, because the at-
mosphere of the glass tube, not having mixed with
the atmosphere of the prime conductor, is withdrawn
entire, having made no addition to or diminution
from it.

Bring the excited tube under the tuft of threads, and
they will close a little.

They close, because the atmosphere of the glass
tube repels their atmospheres, and drives part of
them back on the prime conductor.

Withdraw it, and they will diverge as much.

For the portion of atmosphere which they had lost
returns to them again.

Excite the glass tube and approach the prime con-
ductor with it, holding it across, near the end opposite to
that on which the threads hang, at the distance of five or
six inches. Keep it there a few seconds, and the threads
of the tassels will diverge. Withdraw it, and they will
close.

They diverge, because they have received electric
atmospheres from the electric matter before con-
tained in the substance of the prime conductor, but
which is now repelled and driven away by the atmos-
phere of the glass tube from the parts of the prime

1755] Benjamin Franklin 63

conductor opposite and nearest to that atmosphere,
and forced out upon the surface of the prime con-
ductor at its other end, and upon the threads hanging
thereto. Were it any part of the atmosphere of the
glass tube that flowed over and along the prime con-
ductor to the threads, and gave them atmospheres
(as is the case when a spark is given to the prime
conductor from the glass tube), such part of the
tube's atmosphere would have remained, and the
threads continue to diverge ; but they close on with-
drawing the tube, because the tube takes with it all its
own atmosphere, and the electric matter, which had
been driven out of the substance of the prime con-
ductor, and formed atmospheres round the threads,
is thereby permitted to return to its place.

Take a spark from the prime conductor near the
threads, when they are diverged as before, and they will
close.

For by so doing you take away their atmospheres,
composed of the electric matter driven out of the
substance of the prime conductor, as aforesaid, by the
repellency of the atmosphere of the glass tube. By
taking this spark you rob the prime conductor of part
of its natural quantity of the electric matter, which
part so taken is not supplied by the glass tube, for,
when that is afterwards withdrawn, it takes with
it its whole atmosphere, and leaves the prime con-
ductor electrized negatively, as appears by the next
operation.

Then withdraw the tube, and they will open again.

For now the electric matter in the prime conductor
returning to its equilibrium, or equal diffusion, in

64 The Works of [175s

all parts of its substance, and the prime conductor
having lost some of its natural quantity, the threads
connected with it lose part of theirs, and so are elec-
trized negatively, and therefore repel each other, by
Principle III.

Approach the prime conductor with the tube, near the
same place as at first, and they will close again.

Because the part of their natural quantity of elec-
tric fluid which they had lost is now restored to them
again, by the repulsion of the glass tube forcing that
fluid to them from other parts of the prime conductor;
so they are now again in their natural state.

Withdraw it, and they will open again.

For what had been restored to them is now taken
from them again, flowing back into the prime con-
ductor, and leaving them once more electrized
negatively.

Bring the excited tube under the threads, and they
will diverge more.

Because more of their natural quantity is driven
from them into the prime conductor, and thereby
their negative electricity increased.

The prime conductor not being electrified, brings the
excited tube under the tassel, and the threads will diverge.

Part of their natural quantity is thereby driven out
of them into the prime conductor, and they become
negatively electrized, and therefore repel each other.

Keeping the tube in the same place with one hand,
attempt to touch the threads with the finger of the other
hand, and they will recede from the finger.

Because the finger being plunged into the atmos-
phere of the glass tube, as well as the threads, part

i7S5] Benjamin Franklin 65

of its natural quantity is driven back through the
hand and body by that atmosphere, and the finger
becomes, as well as the threads, negatively electrized,
and so repels, and is repelled by them. To confirm
this, hold a slender, light lock of cotton, two or three
inches long, near a prime conductor that is electrified
by a glass globe or tube. You will see the cotton
stretch itself out towards the prime conductor., At-
tempt to touch it with the finger of the other hand,
and it will be repelled by the finger. Approach it
with a positively charged wire of a bottle, and it will
fly to the wire. Bring it near a negatively charged
wire of a bottle, it will recede from that wire in the
same manner that it did from the finger; which
demonstrates the finger to be negatively electrized;
as well as the lock of cotton so situated.

Turkey killed by Electricity. — Effect of a Shock on the
Operator in making the Experiment

As Mr. Franklin, in a former letter to Mr. Collin-
son, mentioned his intending to try the power of a
very strong electrical shock upon a turkey, that gen-
tleman accordingly has been so very obliging as
to send an account of it, which is to the following
purpose :

He made first several experiments on fowls, and
found that two large, thin glass jars gilt, holding
each about six gallons, were sufficient, when fully
charged, to kill common hens outright; but the
turkeys, though thrown into violent convulsions,

VOI.. III.— 5.

66 The Works of [1755

and then lying as dead for some minutes, would
recover in less than a quarter of an hour. However,
having added three other such to the former two,
though not fully charged, he killed a turkey of about
ten pounds weight, and believes that they would
have killed a much larger. He conceited, as him-
self says, that the birds killed in this manner eat un-
commonly tender.

In making these experiments, he found that a
man could, without great detriment, bear a much
greater shock than he had imagined; for he inad-
vertently received the stroke of two of these jars
through his arms and body, when they were very
near fully charged. It seemed to him a universal
blow throughout the body from head to foot, and
was followed by a violent, quick trembling in the
trunk which went off gradually in a few seconds.
It was some minutes before he could recollect his
thoughts so as to know what was the matter ; for he
did not see the flash, though his eye was on the spot
of the prime conductor, from whence it struck the
back of his hand; nor did he hear the crack, though
the by-standers said it was a loud one; nor did he
particularly feel the stroke on his hand, though he
afterwards found it had raised a swelling there of
the bigness of half a pistol-bullet. His arms and
the back of the neck felt somewhat numbed the re-
mainder of the evening, and his breast was sore for
a week after, as if it had been bruised. From this
experiment may be seen the danger, even under the
greatest caution, to the operator, when making these
experiments with large jars; for it is not to be

1755] Benjamin Franklin 67

doubted but several of these fully charged would as
certainly, by increasing them in proportion to the
size, kill a man, as they before did a turkey.

CXVI

TO JOHN LINING, AT CHARLESTON, SOUTH CAROLINA

Philadelphia, 18 March, 1755.

Sir: — I send you enclosed a paper containing
some new experiments I have made, in pursuance of
those by Mr. Canton, that are printed with my last
letters. I hope these, with my explanation of them,
will afford you some entertainment.1

In answer to your several inquiries. The tubes
and globes we use here are chiefly made here. The
glass has a greenish cast, but is clear and hard, and,
I think, better for electrical experiments than the
white glass of London, which is not so hard. There
are certainly great differences in glass. A white
globe I had made here some years since, would never,
by any means, be excited. Two of my friends tried
it, as well as myself, without success. At length,
putting it on an electric stand, a chain from the
prime conductor being in contact with it, I found it
had the properties of a non-electric ; for I could draw
sparks from any part of it, though it was very clean
and dry.

All I know of Domien is, that by his own account
he was a native of Transylvania, of Tartar descent,
but a priest of the Greek Church; he spoke and

1 See No. CXV.

68 The Works of [1755

wrote Latin very readily and correctly. He set out
from his own country with an intention of going
round the world, as much as possible by land. He
travelled through Germany, France, and Holland,
to England. Resided some time at Oxford. From
England he came to Maryland ; thence went to New
England; returned by land to Philadelphia; and
from hence travelled through Maryland, Virginia,
and North Carolina to you. He thought it might
be of service to him in his travels to know something
of electricity. I taught him the use of the tube, how
to charge the Leyden phial, and some other experi-
ments. He wrote to me from Charleston, that he
lived eight hundred miles upon electricity; it had
been meat, drink, and clothing to him. His last
letter to me was, I think, from Jamaica, desiring me
to send the tubes you mention, to meet him at the
Havana, from whence he expected to get a passage
to La Vera Cruz; designed travelling over land
through Mexico to Acapulco ; thence to get a passage
to Manilla, and so through China, India, Persia, and
Turkey, home to his own country, proposing to sup-
port himself chiefly by electricity. A strange pro-
ject! But he was, as you observe, a very singular
character. I was sorry the tubes did not get to the
Havana in time for him. If they are still in being,
please to send for them, and accept of them. What
became of him afterwards, I have never heard. He
promised to write to me as often as he could on his
journey, and as soon as he should get home after
finishing his tour. It is now seven years since he
was here. If he is still in New Spain, as you im-

1755] Benjamin Franklin 69

agine from that loose report, I suppose it must be
that they confine him there, and prevent his writing;
but I think it more likely that he may be dead.

The questions you ask about the pores of glass, I
cannot answer otherwise than that I know nothing
of their nature ; and suppositions, however ingenious,
are often mere mistakes. My hypothesis, that they
were smaller near the middle of the glass, — too small
to admit the passage of electricity, which could pass
through the surface till it came near the middle,
was certainly wrong. For soon after I had written
that letter, I did, in order to confirm the hypothesis
(which indeed I ought to have done before I wrote
it), make an experiment. I ground away five sixths
of the thickness of the glass from the side of one of
my phials, expecting that, the supposed denser part
being so removed, the electric fluid might come
through the remainder of the glass, which I had
imagined more open; but I found myself mistaken.
The bottle charged as well after the grinding as be-
fore. I am now as much as ever at a loss to know
how or where the quantity of electric fluid on the
positive side of the glass is disposed of.

As to the difference of conductors, there is not
only this, that some will conduct electricity in small
quantities, and yet do not conduct it fast enough to
produce the shock ; but even among those that will
conduct a shock, there are some that do it better than
others. Mr. Kinnersley has found, by a very good
experiment, that when the charge of a bottle hath an
opportunity of passing two ways, that is, straight
through a trough of water ten feet long and six

70 The Works of [1755

inches square, or round about through twenty feet
of wire, it passes through the wire, and not through
the water, though that is the shortest course; the
wire being the better conductor. When the wire is
taken away, it passes through the water, as may be
felt by a hand plunged in the water; but it cannot
be felt in the water when the wire is used at the same
time. Thus, though a small phial containing water
will give a smart shock, one containing the same
quantity of mercury will give one much stronger, the
mercury being the better conductor; while one con-
taining oil only, will scarce give any shock at all.

Your question, how I came first to think of pro-
posing the experiment of drawing down the light-
ning in order to ascertain its sameness with the elec-
tric fluid, I cannot answer better than by giving you
an extract from the minutes I used to keep of the
experiments I made, with memorandums of such as
I purposed to make, the reasons for making them,
and the observations that arose upon them, from
which minutes my letters were afterwards drawn.
By this extract you will see that the thought was
not so much "an out-of-the-way one," but that it
might have occurred to an electrician.

"November fth, 1749. Electrical fluid agrees with
lightning in these particulars: 1. Giving light. 2.
Color of the light. 3. Crooked direction. 4. Swift
motion. 5. Being conducted by metals. 6. Crack
or noise in exploding. 7 . Subsisting in water or ice.
8. Rending bodies it passes through. 9. Destroying
animals. 10. Melting metals, n. Firing inflam-
mable substances. 12. Sulphureous smell. The elec-

1755] Benjamin Franklin 71

trie fluid is attracted by points. We do not know
whether this property is in lightning. But since
they agree in all the particulars wherein we can
already compare them, is it not probable they agree
likewise in this? Let the experiment be made."

I wish I could give you any satisfaction in the
article of clouds. I am still at a loss about the man-
ner in which they become charged with electricity;
no hypothesis I have yet formed perfectly satisfying
me. Some time since, I heated very hot a brass
plate, two feet square, and placed it on an electric
stand. From the plate a wire extended horizontally
four or five feet, and, at the end of it, hung, by linen
threads, a pair of cork balls. I then repeatedly
sprinkled water over the plate, that it might be
raised from it in vapor, hoping, that, if the vapor
either carried off the electricity of the plate, or left
behind it that of the water (one of which I sup-
posed it must do, if, like the clouds, it became elec-
trized itself, either positively or negatively) , I should
perceive and determine it by the separation of the
balls, and by finding whether they were positive or
negative; but no alteration was made at all, nor
could I perceive that the steam was itself electrized,
though I have still some suspicion that the steam
was not fully examined, and I think the experiment
should be repeated. Whether the first state of elec-
trized clouds is positive or negative, if I could find
the cause of that, I should be at no loss about the
other ; for either is easily deduced from the other, as
one state is easily produced by the other. A strongly
positive cloud may drive out of a neighbouring

72 The Works of [1755

cloud much of its natural quantity of the electric
fluid, and, passing by it, leave it in a negative state.
In the same way, a strongly negative cloud may
occasion a neighbouring cloud to draw into itself
from others an additional quantity, and, passing by
it, leave it in a positive state. How these effects
may be produced, you will easily conceive, on perus-
ing and considering the experiments in the enclosed
paper; and from them too it appears probable, that
every change from positive to negative, and from
negative to positive, that, during a thunder-gust, we
see in the cork balls annexed to the apparatus, is not
owing to the presence of clouds in the same state,
but often to the absence of positive or negative
clouds, that, having just passed, leave the rod in the
opposite state.

The knocking down of the six men was performed
with two of my large jars not fully charged. I laid
one end of my discharging-rod upon the head of the
first ; he laid his hand on the head of the second ; the
second his hand on the head of the third, and so to
the last, who held in his hand the chain that was
connected with the outside of the jars. When they
were thus placed, I applied the other end of my rod
to the prime conductor, and they all dropped to-
gether. When they got up, they all declared they
had not felt any stroke, and wondered how they came
to fall ; nor did any of them either hear the crack, or
see the light of it. You suppose it a dangerous ex-
periment; but I had once suffered the same myself,
receiving, by accident, an equal stroke through my
head, that struck me down, without hurting me.

I755] Benjamin Franklin 73

And I had seen a young woman, that was about to
be electrified through the feet (for some indisposition)
receive a greater charge through the head, by in-
advertently stooping forward to look at the placing
of her feet, till her forehead (as she was very tall)
came too near my prime conductor; she dropped,
but instantly got up again, complaining of nothing.
A person so struck, sinks down doubled, or folded
together, as it were, the joints losing their strength
and stiffness at once, so that he drops on the spot
where he stood, instantly, and there is no previous
staggering, nor does he ever fall lengthwise. Too
great a charge might, indeed, kill a man, but I have
not yet seen any hurt done by it. It would cer-
tainly, as you observe, be the easiest of all deaths.

The experiment you have heard so imperfect an
account of, is merely this: I electrified a silver pint
can, on an electric stand, and then lowered into it a
cork ball, of about an inch diameter, hanging by
a silk string, till the cork touched the bottom of the
can. The cork was not attracted to the inside of
the can, as it would have been to the outside; and,
though it touched the bottom, yet, when drawn out,
it was not found to be electrified by that touch, as it
would have been by touching the outside. The
fact is singular. You require the reason; I do not
know it. Perhaps you may discover it, and then
you will be so good as to communicate it to me.1 I

1 Mr. Franklin has since thought, that possibly the mutual repulsion
of the inner opposite sides of the electrical can may prevent the ac-
cumulating an electric atmosphere upon them, and occasion it to
stand chiefly on the outside ; but recommends it to the farther exam-
ination of the curious.

74 The Works of [1755

find a frank acknowledgment of one's ignorance is,
not only the easiest way to get rid of a difficulty, but
the likeliest way to obtain information, and there-
fore I practise it ; I think it an honest policy. Those
who affect to be thought to know every thing,
and so undertake to explain every thing, often re-
main long ignorant of many things that others could
and would instruct them in, if they appeared less
conceited.

The treatment your friend has met with is so com-
mon, that no man, who knows what the world is and
ever has been, should expect to escape it. There
are everywhere a number of people, who, being
totally destitute of any inventive faculty them-
selves, do not readily conceive that others may pos-
sess it ; they think of inventions as of miracles ; there
might be such formerly, but they are ceased. With
these, every one who offers a new invention is deemed
a pretender; he had it from some other country, or
from some book; a man of their own acquaintance,
one who has no more sense than themselves, could
not possibly, in their opinion, have been the inventor
of any thing. They are confirmed, too, in these
sentiments, by frequent instances of pretensions to
invention, which vanity is daily producing. That
vanity, too, though an incitement to invention, is,
at the same time, the pest of inventors. Jealousy
and envy deny the merit or the novelty of your in-
vention ; but vanity, when the novelty and merit are
established, claims it for its own. The smaller your
invention is, the more mortification you receive in
having the credit of it disputed with you by a rival,

i7S5] Benjamin Franklin 75

whom the jealousy and envy of others are ready to
support against you, at least so far as to make the
point doubtful. It is not in itself of importance
enough for a dispute; no one would think your
proofs and reasons worth their attention; and yet,
if you do not dispute the point, and demonstrate
your right, you not only lose the credit of being in
that instance ingenious, but you surfer the disgrace
of not being ingenuous; not only of being a plagiary,
but of being plagiary for trifles. Had the invention
been greater, it would have disgraced you less; for
men have not so contemptible an idea of him that
robs for gold on the highway, as of him that can pick
pockets for half -pence and farthings . Thus , through
envy, jealousy, and the vanity of competitors for
fame, the origin of many of the most extraordinary
inventions, though produced within but a few cen-
turies past, is involved in doubt and uncertainty.
We scarce know to whom we are indebted for the
compass, and spectacles, nor have even paper and
printing, that record every thing else, been able to
preserve with certainty the name and reputation of
their inventors. One would not, therefore, of all
faculties or qualities of the mind, wish, for a friend
or a child, that he should have that of invention.
For his attempts to benefit mankind in that way,
however well imagined, if they do not succeed, ex-
pose him, though very unjustly, to general ridicule
and contempt; and, if they do succeed, to envy,
robbery, and abuse.

I am, &c,

B. Franklin.

76 The Works of [1755

CXVII

TO M. DALIBARD, AT PARIS, ENCLOSED IN A LETTER TO
PETER COLLINSON

READ AT THE ROYAL SOCIETY, DECEMBER 18, 1755

Philadelphia, 29 June, 1755.

Sir: — You desire my opinion of Pere Beccaria's
Italian book.1 I have read it with much pleasure,
and think it one of the best pieces on the subject
that I have seen in any language. Yet, as to the
article of Water-spouts, I am not at present of his
sentiments; though I must own, with you, that he
has handled it very ingeniously. Mr. Collinson has
my opinion of whirlwinds and water-spouts at large,
written some time since. I know not whether they
will be published; if not, I will get them tran-
scribed for your perusal.2 It does not appear to me
that Pere Beccaria doubts of the absolute imper-
meability of glass in the sense I mean it; for the in-
stances he gives of holes made through glass, by the
electric stroke, are such as we have all experienced,
and only show that the electric fluid could not pass
without making a hole. In the same manner we
say glass is impermeable to water, and yet a stream
from a fire-engine will force through the strongest

1 This work is written, conformably to Mr. Franklin's theory, upon
artificial and natural electricity, which compose the two parts of it.
It was printed in Italian, at Turin, in quarto, 1753; between the two
parts is a letter to the Abbe" Nollet, in defence of Mr. Franklin's system.
— J. Bevis.

2 Beccaria wrote a long letter to Franklin, dated at Turin, Decem-
ber 24, 1757, giving an account of several experiments made by him
in electricity, illustrative of Franklin's principles. The letter, written
in Latin, is contained in the Philosophical Transactions, vol. li., p. 514.

i755] Benjamin Franklin 77

panes of a window. As to the effect of points in
drawing the electric matter from the clouds, and
thereby securing buildings, &c, which, you say, he
seems to doubt, I must own I think he only speaks
modestly and judiciously. I find I have been but
partly understood in that matter. I have men-
tioned it in several of my letters, and, except once,
always in the alternative, viz., that pointed rods
erected on buildings, and communicating with the
moist earth, would either prevent sl stroke, or, if not
prevented, would conduct it, so as that the building
should suffer no damage. Yet, whenever my opinion
is examined in Europe, nothing is considered but the
probability of those rods preventing a stroke or ex-
plosion, which is only a part of the use I proposed
for them; and the other part, their conducting a
stroke, which they may happen not to prevent,
seems to be totally forgotten, though of equal im-
portance and advantage.

I thank you for communicating M. de Buffon's
relation of the effect of lightning at Dijon, on the 7th
of June last. In return, give me leave to relate an
instance I lately saw of the same kind. Being in the
town of Newbury in New England, in November
last, I was shown the effect of lightning on their
church, which had been struck a few months before.
The steeple was a square tower of wood, reaching
seventy feet up from the ground to the place where
the bell hung, over which rose a taper spire, of wood
likewise, reaching seventy feet higher, to the vane of
the weather-cock. Near the bell was fixed an iron
hammer to strike the hours ; and from the tail of the

7$ The Works of [1755

hammer a wire went down through a small gimlet-
hole in the floor that the bell stood upon, and
through a second floor in like manner; then hori-
zontally under and near the plastered ceiling of that
second floor, till it came near a plastered wall ; then
down by the side of that wall to a clock, which
stood about twenty feet below the bell. The wire
was not bigger than a common knitting-needle. The
spire was split all to pieces by the lightning, and the
parts flung in all directions over the square in which
the church stood, so that nothing remained above
the bell.

The lightning passed between the hammer and the
clock in the abovementioned wire, without hurting
either of the floors, or having any effect upon them
(except making the gimlet-holes, through which the
wire passed, a little bigger), and without hurting the
plastered wall, ar any part of the building, so far as
the aforesaid wire and the pendulum- wire of the clock
extended ; which latter wire was about the thickness
of a goose-quill. From the end of the pendulum,
down quite to the ground, the building was exceed-
ingly rent and damaged, and some stones in the
foundation-wall torn out, and thrown to the distance
of twenty or thirty feet. No part of the aforemen-
tioned long, small wire, between the clock and the
hammer, could be found, except about two inches that
hung to the tail of the hammer, and about as much
that was fastened to the clock ; the rest being ex-
ploded, and its particles dissipated in smoke and air,
as gun-powder is by common fire, and had only left
a black smutty track on the plastering, three or four

1755] Benjamin Franklin 79

inches broad, darkest in the middle, and fainter to-
wards the edges, all along the ceiling, under which it
passed, and down the wall. These were the effects
and appearances; on which I would only make the
following remarks, viz.

i. That lightning, in its passage through a build-
ing, will leave wood to pass as far as it can in metal,
and not enter the wood again till the conductor of
metal ceases.

And the same I have observed in other instances,
as to walls of brick or stone.

2. The quantity of lightning that passed through
this steeple must have been very great, by its effects
on the lofty spire above the bell, and on the square
tower, all below the end of the clock-pedulum.

3. Great as this quantity was, it was conducted by
a small wire and a clock-pendulum, without the least
damage to the building so far as they extended.

4. The pendulum rod, being of a sufficient thick-
ness, conducted the lightning without damage to
itself; but the small wire was utterly destroyed.

5. Though the small wire was itself destroyed, yet
it had conducted the lightning with safety to the
building.

6. And from the whole it seems probable that if
even such a small wire had been extended from the
spindle of the vane to the earth, before the storm, no
damage would have been done to the steeple by that
stroke of lightning, though the wire itself had been
destroyed.

B. Franklin.

80 The Works of [1755

CXVIII

TO PETER COLLINSON

Philadelphia, 25 August, 1755.

Dear Sir: — As you have my former papers on
whirlwinds, &c., I now send you an account of one
which I had lately an opportunity of seeing and ex-
amining myself.

Being in Maryland, riding with Colonel Tasker,
and some other gentlemen, to his country-seat, where
I and my son were entertained by that amiable and
worthy man with great hospitality and kindness, we
saw, in the vale below us, a small whirlwind begin-
ning in the road, and showing itself by the dust it
raised and contained. It appeared in the form of a
sugar-loaf, spinning on its point, moving up the hill
toward us, and enlarging as it came forward. When
it passed by us, its smaller part near the ground ap-
peared no bigger than a common barrel ; but, widen-
ing upwards, it seemed, at forty or fifty feet high, to
be twenty or thirty feet in diameter. The rest of the
company stood looking after it; but, my curiosity
being stronger, I followed it, riding close by its side,
and observed its licking up, in its progress, all the
dust that was under its smaller part. As it is a com-
mon opinion that a shot, fired through a water- spout,
will break it, I tried to break this little whirlwind, by
striking my whip frequently through it, but without
any effect. Soon after, it quitted the road and took
into the woods, growing every moment larger and
stronger, raising, instead of dust, the old dry leaves
with which the ground was thick covered, and making

1755] Benjamin Franklin 81

a great noise with them and the branches of the trees,
bending some tall trees round in a circle swiftly and
very surprisingly, though the progressive motion of
the whirl was not so swift but that a man on foot
might have kept pace with it ; but the circular motion
was amazingly rapid. By the leaves it was now filled
with, I could plainly perceive that the current of air
they were driven by moved upwards in a spiral line ;
and when I saw the passing whirl continue entire,
after leaving the trunks and bodies of large trees
which it had enveloped, I no longer wondered that
my whip had no effect on it in its smaller state. I
accompanied it about three quarters of a mile, till
some limbs of dead trees, broken off by the whirl,
flying about and falling near me, made me more ap-
prehensive of danger; and then I stopped, looking at
the top of it as it went on, which was visible, by
means of the leaves contained in it, for a very great
height above the trees. Many of the leaves, as they
got loose from the upper and widest part, were scat-
tered in the wind; but so great was their height in
the air, that they appeared no bigger than flies. My
son, who was by this time come up with me, followed
the whirlwind till it left the woods, and crossed an
old tobacco-field, where, finding neither dust nor
leaves to take up, it gradually became invisible be-
low, as it went away over the field. The course of
the general wind then blowing was along with us as
we travelled, and the progressive motion of the whirl-
wind was in a direction nearly opposite, though it did
not keep a straight line, nor was its progressive mo-
tion uniform, it making little sallies on either hand as

82 The Works of [1755

it went, proceeding sometimes faster and sometimes
slower, and seeming sometimes for a few seconds al-
most stationary, then starting forward pretty fast
again. When we rejoined the company, they were
admiring the vast height of the leaves now brought
by the common wind over our heads. These leaves
accompanied us as we travelled, some falling now
and then round about us, and some not reaching the
ground till we had gone near three miles from the
place where we first saw the whirlwind begin. Upon
my asking Colonel Tasker if such whirlwinds were
common in Maryland, he answered pleasantly: " No,
not at all common; but we got this on purpose
to treat Mr. Franklin." And a very high treat it

was to,

Dear Sir,

Your affectionate friend and humble servant,

B. Franklin.

CXIX

TO JARED ELIOT

Philadelphia, 31 August, 1755.

Dear Friend: — I have been employed almost all
this summer in the service of an unfortunate army,
and other public affairs, that have brought me greatly
in arrear with my correspondents. I have lost the
pleasure of conversing with them, and I have lost my
labor. I wish these were the only losses of the year;
but we have lost a number of brave men, and all our
credit with the Indians. I fear these losses may soon
be productive of more and greater.

1755] Benjamin Franklin 83

I have had no opportunity of making the inquiry
you desired relating to Leonard. Somerset County
in Maryland is one hundred and fifty miles from
hence, and out of the common road of travellers or
the post; nor have I any correspondent or acquaint-
ance there. But now, while I am writing, I recollect
a friend I have at Newtown, within fifty miles of
Somerset, who has a very general knowledge of those
parts and of the people, as he practises the law in all
the counties on the Eastern Shore of Maryland. I
will immediately write to him about it.

I am sorry your newspapers miscarry. If your
riders are not more careful I must order them to be
changed. The Mitchell, who made the map, is our
Dr. Mitchell. I send you one of Evans's new maps,
which I imagine will be agreeable to you. Please to
accept it. I am glad to hear your son has acquired
the art of making steel. I hope it will prove profit-
able. Mr. Roberts is pleased that you so kindly
accept his fork and rake. I suppose he will write to
you; but he is a man of much business, and does not
love writing. I shall learn once more (for he told
me once and I have forgotten it) how those teeth are
put in and send you word; but perhaps our friend
Bartram can tell you. He delivers you this, and I
need not recommend him to you, for you are already
acquainted with his merit, though not with his face
and person. You will have a great deal of pleasure
in one another's conversation. I wish I could be
within hearing, but that cannot be. He is upon one
of his rambles in search of knowledge, and intends to
view both your sea-coast and back country.

84 The Works of [1755

Remember me kindly to Mr. Tufts and Mr. Rug-
gles when you see them. My respects to your good
lady and family. With the greatest esteem, I am,
dear Sir, your most affectionate, &c,

B. Franklin.

cxx

TO JARED ELIOT

Philadelphia, i September, 1755.

Dear Sir: — I wrote to you yesterday, and now I
write again. You will say, It can't rain, but it pours;
for I not only send you manuscript but living letters.
The former may be short, but the latter will be longer
and yet more agreeable. Mr. Bartram, I believe you
will find to be at least twenty folio pages, large paper
well filled, on the subjects of botany, fossils, hus-
bandry, and the first creation. This Mr. Allison is
as many or more on agriculture, philosophy, your
own catholic divinity, and various other points of
learning equally useful and engaging. Read them
both. It will take you at least a week; and then
answer by sending me two of the like kind, or by
coming yourself. If you fail of this, I shall think I
have overbalanced my epistolary account, and that
you will be in my debt as a correspondent for at least
twelve months to come.

I remember with pleasure the cheerful hours I en-
joyed last winter in your company, and would with
all my heart give any ten of the thick old folios that
stand on the shelves before me for a little book of the

1755] Benjamin Franklin 85

stories you then told with so much propriety and
humor. Adieu, my dear friend, and believe me ever
yours affectionately, B. Franklin.

CXXI

TO MISS CATHERINE RAY

Philadelphia, ii September, 1755.

Begone, business, for an hour, at least, and let me
chat a little with my Katy.

I have now before me, my dear girl, three of
your favors, viz., of March the 3d, March the 30th,
and May the 1st. The first I received just before
I set out on a long journey, and the others while I
was on that journey, which held me near six weeks.
Since my return I have been in such a perpetual
hurry of public affairs of various kinds, as renders it
impracticable for me to keep up my private corre-
spondences, even those that afforded me the greatest
pleasure.

You ask in your last how I do, and what I am
doing, and whether everybody loves me yet, and why
I make them do so.

In regard to the first, I can say, thanks to God,
that I do not remember I was ever better. I still
relish all the pleasures of life that a temperate man
can in reason desire, and through favor I have them
all in my power. This happy situation shall continue
as long as God pleases, who knows what is best for
his creatures, and I hope will enable me to bear with

86 The Works of [1755

patience and dutiful submission any change he may-
think fit to make that is less agreeable. As to the
second question, I must confess (but don't you be
jealous) that many more people love me now than
ever did before ; for since I saw you I have been en-
abled to do some general services to the country and
to the army, for which both have thanked and praised
me, and say they love me. They say so, as you used
to do ; and if I were to ask any favors of them, they
would, perhaps, as readily refuse me; so that I find
little real advantage in being beloved, but it pleases
my humor.

Now it is near four months since I have been fa-
vored with a single line from you ; but I will not be
angry with you, because it is my fault. I ran in debt
to you three or four letters, and, as I did not pay,
you would not trust me any more, and you had some
reason. But, believe me, I am honest, and, though
I should never make equal returns, you shall see I
will keep fair accounts. Equal returns I can never
make, though I should write to you by every post;
for the pleasure I receive from one of yours is more
than you can have from two of mine. The small
news, the domestic occurrences among our friends,
the natural pictures you draw of persons, the sensible
observations and reflections you make, and the easy,
chatty manner in which you express every thing, all
contribute to heighten the pleasure ; and the more as
they remind me of those hours and miles that we
talked away so agreeably, even in a winter journey,
a wrong road, and a soaking shower.

I long to hear whether you have continued ever

i75s] Benjamin Franklin 87

since in that monastery1; or have broke into the
world again, doing petty mischief; how the lady
Wards do, and how many of them are married, or

about it ; what is become of Mr. B and Mr. L

and what the state of your heart is at this instant?
But that, perhaps, I ought not to know ; and, there-
fore, I will not conjure, as you sometimes say I do.
If I could conjure, it should be to know what was that
oddest question about me that ever was thought of,
which you tell me a lady had just sent to ask you.

I commend your prudent resolutions, in the article
of granting favors to lovers. But if I were courting
you, I could not hardly approve such conduct. I
should even be malicious enough to say you were
too knowing, and tell you the old story of The Girl
and the Miller. I enclose you the songs you write
for, and with them your Spanish letter with a transla-
tion. I honor that honest Spaniard for loving you.
It showed the goodness of his taste and judgment.
But you must forget him, and bless some worthy
young Englishman.

You have spun a long thread, five thousand and
twenty-two yards. It will reach almost from Rhode
Island hither. I wish I had hold of one end of it, to
pull you to me. But you would break it rather than
come. The cords of love and friendship are longer
and stronger, and in times past have drawn me far-
ther; even back from England to Philadelphia. I
guess that some of the same kind will one day draw
you out of that Island.

I was extremely pleased with the you sent

1 Block Island.

88 The Works of [175s

me. The Irish people, who have seen it, say it is
the right sort ; but I cannot learn that we have any
thing like it here. The cheeses, particularly one of
them, were excellent. All our friends have tasted it,
and all agree that it exceeds any English cheese they
ever tasted. Mrs. Franklin was very proud, that a
young lady should have so much regard for her old
husband, as to send him such a present. We talk
of you every time it comes to table. She is sure you
are a sensible girl, and a notable housewife, and talks
of bequeathing me to you as a legacy; but I ought
to wish you a better, and hope she will live these
hundred years ; for we are grown old together, and if
she has any faults, I am so used to them that I don't
perceive them ; as the song says,

" Some faults we have all, and so has my Joan,
But then they 're exceedingly small;
And, now I 'm grown used to them, so like my own,
I scarcely can see them at all;

My dear friends,
I scarcely can see them at all." '

1 The author here quotes a stanza from one of his own " Songs," writ-
ten for the Junto. It has been printed in Professor McVickar's Life
of Dr. Samuel Bard.

MY PLAIN COUNTRY JOAN; A SONG

"Of their Chloes and Phyllises poets may prate,
I sing my plain country Joan,
These twelve years my wife, still the joy of my life,
Blest day that I made her my own.

"Not a word of her face, of her shape, or her air,
Or of flames, or of darts, you shall hear;
I beauty admire, but virtue I prize,
That fades not in seventy year.

"Am I loaded with care, she takes off a large share,
That the burden ne'er makes me to reel;

1 755] Benjamin Franklin 89

Indeed, I begin to think she has none, as I think of
you. And since she is willing I should love you, as
much as you are willing to be loved by me, let us
join in wishing the old lady a long life and a happy.

With her respectful compliments to you, to your
good mother and sisters, present mine, though un-
known; and believe me to be, dear girl, your affec-
tionate friend and humble servant,

B. Franklin.

P. S— Sally says: " Papa, my love to Miss Katy."
If it was not quite unreasonable, I should desire you
to write to me every post, whether you hear from me
or not. As to your spelling, don't let those laughing
girls put you out of conceit with it. It is the best in
the world, for every letter of it stands for something.

Does good fortune arrive, the joy of my wife
Quite doubles the pleasure I feel.

" She defends my good name, even when I 'm to blame,
Firm friend as to man e'er was given;
Her compassionate breast feels for all the distressed,
Which draws down more blessings from heaven.

" In health a companion delightful and dear,
Still easy, engaging, and free;
In sickness no less than the carefulest nurse,
As tender as tender can be.

" In peace and good order my household she guides,
Right careful to save what I gain;
Yet cheerfully spends, and smiles on the friends
I 've the pleasure to entertain.

"Some faults have we all, and so has my Joan,
But then they 're exceedingly small,
And, now I 'm grown used to them, so like my own
I scarcely can see them at all.

"Were the finest young princess, with millions in purse,
To be had in exchange for my Joan,
I could not get better wife, might get a worse.
So I '11 stick to my dearest old Joan."

90 The Works of [1755

CXXII

TO WILLIAM SHIRLEY

Philadelphia, 23 October, 1755.

Sir: — I beg leave to return your Excellency my
most sincere and hearty thanks for your letter of the
17th of September, with the orders for the payment
of wagon owners, and an extract of your orders to
Colonel Dunbar, forbidding the enlistment of servants
and apprentices.1 Acts of justice so readily done be-
come great favors, which I hope will be ever gratefully
acknowledged by this people in actions as well as
words.

I have also your favor of the 5th instant. Governor

1 At this time General Shirley was Governor of Massachusetts. He
was with the army at Oswego, as commander-in-chief of his Majesty's
forces in America. It appears, that he never entirely fulfilled the
good intentions expressed in his letter. In his autobiography, Dr.
Franklin gives a particular account of the services he rendered to Gen-
eral Braddock, in procuring horses and wagons for his expedition.
He expended, of his own money, upwards of a thousand pounds ster-
ling. This sum was in part returned by General Braddock, but the
remainder was never paid. When Lord Loudoun succeeded General
Shirley, the accounts were examined and compared with the vouchers
by the proper officer, and certified to be right; but Lord Loudoun
declined giving an order on the paymaster for the balance, stating as
a reason, that he preferred not to mix up his accounts with those of
his predecessors; and, as Franklin was then on the point of departing
for England, he referred him to the treasury in London, where, he
said, payment would immediately be made. The application to the
treasury, however, was unsuccessful. The closing paragraph of the
Governor's letter ran as follows :

"Though I am at present engaged in a great hurry of business, being

to move from hence in a very few days for Niagara, I cannot conclude

without assuring you that I have the highest sense of your public

services in general, and particularly that of engaging those wagons,

without which General Braddock, could not have proceeded. I am,

with great esteem, &c,

"W. Shirley."

i7S5] Benjamin Franklin 91

Morris is gone to Newcastle, to meet the Assembly of
the Lower Counties, so that I cannot at present see
the papers you refer me to, but I shall wait upon him
in my journey to Virginia; and if, on perusing those
papers, any thing seeming worthy of your notice
should occur to me, I shall communicate my senti-
ments to you with that honest freedom which you
always approve.

This journey, which I cannot now avoid, will de-
prive me of the pleasure of waiting on your Excel-
lency in New York at the time you mention. I hear,
too, that the governor does not purpose to send any
commissioners thither, but to go himself. I know
not what is to be the particular subject of your
consultations ; but as I believe all your schemes have
the King's service (which is the public good) in view,
I cannot but wish them success.

Our Assembly meets the beginning of December,
when I hope to be at home again ; and if any assist-
ance is to be required of them and the people here,
depend on my faithful services, so far as my little
sphere of influence shall extend. With the highest
esteem and respect, I have the honor to be, &c,

B. Franklin.

CXXIII

TO JAMES READ

Philadelphia, 2 November, 1755.

Dear Sir: — I have your letter by Mr. Sea, and
one just now by express. I am glad to hear the

92 The Works of [1755

arms are well got up ; they are the best that we could
procure. I wish they were better; but they are
well fortified, will bear a good charge, and I should
imagine they would do good service with swan or
buck shot, if not so fit for single ball. I have been
ill these eight days, confined to my room and bed
most of the time, but am now getting better. I
have, however, done what I could in sending about
to purchase arms, &c, for the supply of the frontiers,
and can now spare you fifty more, which I shall send
up to-morrow with some flints, lead, swan-shot, and
a barrel of gunpowder. The arms will be under
your care and Mr. Weiser's,1 you being gentlemen
in commission from the governor. Keep an account
of whose hands you put them into. Let them be
prudent, sober, careful men, such as will not rashly
hurt our friends with them, and such as will honestly
return them when peace shall be happily restored.

I sincerely commiserate the distress of your out
settlers. The Assembly sit to-morrow, and there is
no room to doubt of their hearty endeavours to do
every thing necessary for the country's safety. I
wish the same disposition may be found in the gov-
ernor, and I hope it. I have put off my journey to
Virginia, and you may depend on my best services
for the common welfare, so far as my little influence
extends. I am your affectionate kinsman and
humble servant.

B. Franklin.

1 Conrad Weiser, celebrated as an Indian interpreter for many years,
highly respected for his character, and of great influence with the
Indians.

i755l Benjamin Franklin 93

P. S. — My best respects to Mr. Weiser. Nine
hundred arms with ammunition have been sent up
by the Committee of Assembly to different parts of
the frontier.

CXXIV

AN ACT x

FOR THE BETTER ORDERING AND REGULATING SUCH AS ARE
WILLING AND DESIROUS TO BE UNITED FOR MILITARY
PURPOSES IN PENNSYLVANIA.

Whereas this province was first settled by (and a
majority of the Assemblies have ever since been of)
the people called Quakers, who, though they do not,
as the world is now circumstanced, condemn the use
of arms in others, yet are principled against bearing
arms themselves; and to make any law to compel
them thereto against their consciences, would be not
only to violate a fundamental in our constitution,
and be a direct breach of our charter of privileges,
but would also in effect be to commence persecution
against all that part of the inhabitants of the pro-
vince ; and for them by any law to compel others to

1 The defeat of General Braddock at the battle of the Monongahela,
on the 9th of July, 1755, had filled the people of Pennsylvania with
alarm. The Assembly at its next session made a large grant in money
for purposes of defence. The doctrine of non-resistance, which was a
part of the creed of a large portion of the population, had hitherto
prevented the establishment of any efficient militia system. To meet
the crisis, Franklin drew up the following act for embodying and dis-
ciplining a voluntary militia. It was carried through the House, he
says, without much difficulty, because care had been taken to leave
the Quakers at liberty.

94 The Works of [1755

bear arms, and exempt themselves, would be incon-
sistent and partial ; yet forasmuch as, by the general
toleration and equity of our laws, great numbers of
people of other religious denominations are come
among us, who are under no such restraint, some of
whom have been disciplined in the art of war, and
conscientiously think it their duty to fight in de-
fence of their country, their wives, their families,
and estates, and such have an equal right to liberty
of conscience with others ; and whereas a great num-
ber of petitions from the several counties of this
province have been presented to this House, setting
forth that the petitioners are very willing to defend
themselves and their country, and desirous of being
formed into regular bodies for that purpose, in-
structed and disciplined under proper officers with
suitable and legal authority; representing withal,
that unless measures of this kind are taken, so as to
unite them together, subject them to due command,
and thereby give them confidence in each other, they
cannot assemble to oppose the enemy without the
utmost danger of exposing themselves to confusion
and destruction;

And whereas the voluntary assembling of great
bodies of armed men from different parts of the
province on any occasional alarm, whether true or
false, as of late hath happened, without call or au-
thority from the government, and without due order
and direction among themselves, may be attended
with danger to our neighbouring Indian friends and
allies, as well as to the internal peace of the province;

And whereas the governor hath frequently recom-

1755] Benjamin Franklin 95

mended it to the Assembly, that, in preparing and
passing a law for such purposes, they should have a
due regard for scrupulous and tender consciences,
which cannot be done where compulsive means are
used to force men into military service ; therefore, as
we represent all the people of the province, and are
composed of members of different religious persua-
sions, we do not think it reasonable that any should,
through a want of legal powers, be in the least re-
strained from doing what they judge it their duty to
do for their own security and the public good; we, in
compliance with the said petitions and recommenda-
tions, do offer it to the governor to be enacted, and
be it enacted by the Honorable Robert Hunter
Morris, with the King's royal approbation lieutenant-
governor, under Thomas Penn and Richard Penn,
true and absolute proprietors of the province of
Pennsylvania, and of the counties of Newcastle,
Kent, and Sussex, upon Delaware, by and with the
advice and consent of the representatives of the free-
men of the said province in General Assembly met,
and by the authority of the same, that, from and
after the publication of this act, it shall and may be
lawful for the freemen of this province to form them-
selves into companies, as heretofore they have used
in time of war without law, and for each company,
by majority of votes in the way of ballot, to choose its
own officers, to wit, a captain, lieutenant, and ensign,
and present them to the governor or commander-
in-chief for the time being for his approbation;
which officers so chosen, if approved and com-
missioned by him, shall be the captain, lieutenant,

96 The Works of [1755

and ensign of each company respectively, according
to their commissions ; and the said companies being
divided into regiments by the governor or com-
mander-in-chief, it shall and may be lawful for the
officers so chosen and commissioned for the several
companies of each regiment to meet together, and
by majority of votes, in the way of ballot, to choose
a colonel, lieutenant-colonel, and major for the regi-
ment, and present them to the governor or com-
mander-in-chief for his approbation; which officers
so chosen, if approved and commissioned by him,
shall be the colonel, lieutenant-colonel, and major
of the regiment, according to their commissions,
during the continuance of this act.

Provided always, that if the governor or com-
mander-in-chief shall not think fit to grant his com-
mission to any officer so first chosen and presented,
it shall and may be lawful for the electors of such
officer to choose two other persons in his stead, and
present them to the governor or commander-in-
chief, one of whom, at his pleasure, shall receive his
commission, and be the officer as aforesaid.

And be it further enacted by the authority afore-
said, that as soon as the said companies and regi-
ments are formed, and their officers commissioned
as aforesaid, it shall and may be lawful to and for
the governor or commander-in-chief, by and with
the advice and consent of the colonels, lieutenant-
colonels, and majors of all the regiments, being for
that purpose by him called and convened, or by and
with the advice and consent of a majority of the said
officers that shall be met and present together on

1755] Benjamin Franklin 97

such call, to form, make, and establish articles of
war, for the better government of the forces that
shall be under their command, and for bringing
offenders against the same to justice, and to erect
and constitute courts-martial, with power to hear,
try, and determine any crimes or offences by such
articles of war, and inflict penalties by sentence or
judgment of the same on those who shall be subject
thereto in any place within this province. Which
articles of war, when made as aforesaid, shall be
printed and distributed to the captains of the several
companies, and by them distinctly read to their
respective companies; and all and every captain,
lieutenant, ensign, or other freeman who shall, after
at least three days' consideration of the said articles,
voluntarily sign the same, in presence of some one
justice of the peace, acknowledging his having
perused or heard the same distinctly read, and that
he has well considered thereof, and is willing to be
bound and governed thereby, and promises obedi-
ence thereto, and to his officers accordingly, shall
henceforth be deemed well and duly bound to the
observance of the said articles, and to the duties
thereby required, and subject to the pains, penalties,
punishments, and forfeitures that may therein be
appointed for disobedience and other offences.

Provided always that the articles, so to be made
and established, shall contain nothing repugnant,
but be as near as possible conformable, to the mili-
tary laws of Great Britain, and to the articles of
war made and established by his Majesty in pursu-
ance of the last act of Parliament for punishing

98 The Works of [1755

mutiny and desertion, the different circumstances of
this province compared with Great Britain, and of a
voluntary militia of freemen compared with mer-
cenary standing troops, being duly weighed and
maturely considered.

Provided, also, that nothing in this act shall be
understood or construed to give any power or au-
thority to the governor or commander-in-chief, and
the said officers, to make any articles or rules that
shall in the least affect those of the inhabitants of
the province who are conscientiously scrupulous of
bearing arms, either in their liberties, persons, or
estates; nor any other persons of what persuasion
or denomination soever, who have not first volun-
tarily and freely signed the said articles after due
consideration as aforesaid.

Provided, also, that no youth under the age of
twenty-one years, nor any bought servant or in-
dented apprentice, shall be admitted to enroll
himself, or be capable of being enrolled, in the said
companies or regiments, without the consent of his
or their parents or guardians, masters or mistresses,
in writing, under their hands first had and obtained.

Provided, also, that no enlistment or enrolment of
any person in any of the companies or regiments to
be formed and raised as aforesaid, shall protect such
person in any suit or civil action brought against him
by his creditors or others, except during his being in
actual service in field or garrison ; nor from a prosecu-
tion for any offence committed against the laws of
this province.

Provided, also, that no regiment, company, or

1755] Benjamin Franklin 99

party of volunteers shall, by virtue of this act, be
compelled or led more than three days' march be-
yond the inhabited parts of the province; nor de-
tained longer than three weeks in any garrison,
without an express engagement for that purpose,
first voluntarily entered into and subscribed by
every man so to march or remain in garrison.

This act to continue in force until the 30th day of
October next, and no longer.

cxxv

TO WILLIAM PARSONS 1

Philadelphia, 5 December, 1755.

Dear Sir: — I received your favor of November
25th, and take this first opportunity of acquainting
you, that an act is passed granting £60,000 chiefly
for the defence of the province, and is to be disposed
of for that purpose, by seven persons, namely, Isaac
Norris, James Hamilton, J. Mifflin, Joseph Fox,
Evan Morgan, John Hughes, and your old friend.
We meet every day, Sundays not excepted, and have
a good agreement with the governor. Three hun-
dred men are ordered to be immediately raised on
pay, to range the frontiers, and blockhouses for
stages to be erected at proper distances and garri-
soned ; so that I hope in a little time to see things in
a better posture. A militia act is also passed, of
which, if people are well disposed, a good use may

1 William Parsons was one of the earliest members of the Junto,
formed by Franklin soon after he established himself in Philadelphia.
He was afterwards Surveyor-General of Pennsylvania. When this
letter was written he was at Easton. He died in 1758.

ioo The Works of [1755

be made, and bodies of men be ready on any occa-
sion to assist and support the rangers. All parties
laid aside, let you and I use our influence to carry
this act into execution.

I received also your letter of the 27th, relating the
unhappy affair of Gnadenhutten, and desiring arms.
I have accordingly procured and sent up by a wagon
to one George Overpack's, a chest of arms containing
fifty, and five loose, fifty-five in all, of which twenty-
five are for Easton, and thirty to be disposed of to
such persons nearest danger on the frontiers, who
are without arms and unable to buy, as yourself with
Messrs. Atkins and Martin may judge most proper;
letting all know that the arms are only lent for their
defence, that they belong to the public, and must be
held forthcoming when the government shall demand
them, for which each man should give his note. By
the same wagon we send twenty-five guns for Le-
high township, and ten for Bethlehem to the Mora-
vian Brethren, which make in all one hundred; with
which goes one hundred weight of gunpowder, and
four hundred pounds of lead ; so there should be one
pound of powder and four pounds of lead divided to
each man.

Who brought your last letter to me I know not, it
being left at my house. You mention sending a
wagon, and I daily expected to see the wagoner,
but he never called on me for an answer. Please
let me know by a line when you have received what
is sent. I am your affectionate friend and humble
servant,

B. Franklin.

1755] Benjamin Franklin 101

CXXVI

TO WILLIAM PARSONS

Philadelphia, 15 December, 1755.

Dear Friend: — We received yours of the 13th.
You will before this time have received the arms and
ammunition, blankets, &c, sent up for an intended
ranging party. They may be made use of for the
defence of your town till we arrive. Captain Trump,
from Upper Dublin, marches the day after to-mor-
row with fifty men to your assistance. The provi-
sions for their use go with them, so that they will not
burden you. Orders are gone to Captains Aston
and Wayne to march also with their companies im-
mediately. They will remain on your frontier two
or three months, till they can be relieved by others.1

Mr. Hamilton and myself will set out on Thursday
to visit you, and erect blockhouses in proper places.

1 Franklin was extremely active in providing for the defence of the
frontiers, as well by his personal efforts, as in the capacity of one of
the commissioners for that purpose. The following memoranda were
found by Mr. Duane among Franklin's papers:
"Considerations to be taken.

"What number of men?

"Should the post be fortified, and in what manner?

"How long to be continued there?

" Could they not be partly employed in raising their own provisions?

"Could they have some lots of land assigned them for their encour-
agement?

"What their pay; and from what funds?

"How much the annual expense?

" Is it certain that the late method of giving rewards for apprehend-
ing rioters will be effectual?

"To whom does the land belong?"

In one of his letters he said : " The fifty arms now sent are all fur-
nished with staples for sling straps, that, if the governor should order
a troop or company of rangers on horseback, the pieces may be slung
at the horsemen's backs. A party on the 'scout should observe several

io2 The Works of

.1755

Think of suitable officers for raising and command-
ing men to be kept in the province pay; for Mr.
Hamilton does not know the people your way, nor
do I know whom to recommend. He will bring some
blank commissions with him. I enclose you twenty
pounds towards buying meal and meat for the poor
fugitives that take refuge with you. Be of good
courage, and God guide you. Your friends will
never desert you. I am yours affectionately,

B. Franklin.

CXXVII

A DIALOGUE l

BETWEEN X, Y, * Z, CONCERNING THE PRESENT STATE OP AFFAIRS IN

PENNSYLVANIA.

X. Your servant, Gentlemen; I am glad to see
you at my house. Is there any thing new to-day?

rules to avoid being tracked and surprised in their encampments at
night. This may be done sometimes when they come to a creek or
run, by entering the run and travelling up the stream
or down the stream, in the water, a mile or two, and
then encamp, the stream effacing the track, and the
enemy at a loss to know whether the party went up or
down. Suppose a party marching from A intends to halt
at B, they do not go straight to Band stop there, but pass
by at some little distance, and make a turn which brings
them thither. Between B and C two or three sentinels are
placed to watch the track, and give immediate notice at
B, if they perceive any party oass by in pursuit, with an
account of the number, &c, which enables the party at
B to prepare and attack them if they judge that proper,
or gives them time to escape. But I add no more of this
kind, recollecting that Mr. Weiser must be much better acquainted
with all these things than I am."

1 This Dialogue was first printed in the Pennsylvania Gazette, De-
cember 18, 1755.

1755] Benjamin Franklin 103

Y. We have been talking of the militia act; have
you seen it?

X. Yes; I have read it in the papers.

Z. And what do you think of it?

X. The more I consider it, the better I like it.
It appears to me a very good act, and I am per-
suaded will be of good use, if heartily carried into
execution.

Z. Ay, that may be; but who is to carry it into
execution? It says that people may form them-
selves into companies, and choose their own officers;
but there is neither time nor place appointed for this
transaction, nor any person directed or empowered
to call them together.

X. It is true; but methinks there are some words
that point out the method pretty plain to willing
minds. And it seems to me, that we who joined so
sincerely in the petitions for a militia law, and really
thought one absolutely necessary for the safety of
our country, should, now we have obtained the law,
rather endeavour to explain than invent difficulties
in the construction of it.

Y. What are those words you mention?
X. Here is the act itself; I will read that part of
it: "From and after the publication of this act, it
shall and may be lawful for the freemen of this
province to form themselves into companies, as
heretofore they used in time of war without law, and
for each company, by a majority of votes, in the way
of ballot, to choose its own officers, &c. ' ' The words
I meant are these: " as heretofore they used in time of
war" Now I suppose we have none of us forgot the

104 The Works of [1755

association in the time of the last war; it is not so
long since, but that we may well enough remember
the method we took to form ourselves into com-
panies, choose our officers, and present them to the
governor for approbation and commissions ; and the
act in question says plainly we may now lawfully do,
in this affair, what we then did without law.

Y. I did not before take so much notice of those
words, but, to be sure, the thing is easy enough ; for
I remember very well how we managed at that time.
And indeed it is easier to effect it now than it was
then; for the companies and regiments, and their
districts, &c, were then all to form and settle. But
now why may not the officers of the old companies
call the old associators together, with such others in
the district of each company as incline to be con-
cerned, and proceed immediately to a new choice by
virtue of the act? Other new companies may in
other places be formed, as the associated companies
were.

Z. You say right. And if this were all the objec-
tion to the act, no doubt they would do so immedi-
ately. But it is said there are other faults in it.

X. What are they?

Z. The act is so loose that persons who never in-
tended to engage in the militia, even Quakers, may
meet and vote in the choice of the officers.

X. Possibly; — but was any such thing observed
in the association elections?

Z. Not that I remember.

X. Why should it be more apprehended now
than it was at that time? Can they have any mo-

1755] Benjamin Franklin 105

tives to such a conduct now, which they had not
then?

Z. I cannot say.

X. Nor can I. If a militia be necessary for the
safety of the province, I hope we shall not boggle at
this little difficulty. What else is objected?

Z. I have heard this objected: That it were
better the governor should appoint the officers; for,
the choice being in the people, a man very unworthy
to be an officer may happen to be popular enough
to get himself chosen by the undiscerning mob.

X. It is possible. And if all officers appointed
by governors were always men of merit, and fully
qualified for their posts, it would be wrong ever to
hazard a popular election. It is reasonable, I allow,
that the commander-in-chief should not have officers
absolutely forced upon him, in whom, from his
knowledge of their incapacity, he can place no con-
fidence. And, on the other hand, it seems likely
that the people will engage more readily in the ser-
vice, and face danger with more intrepidity when
they are commanded by a man they know and
esteem, and on whose prudence and courage, as
well as good-will and integrity, they can have re-
liance, than they would under a man they either did
not know or did not like. For, supposing governors
ever so judicious and upright in the distribution of
commissions, they cannot know everybody in every
part of the province, and are liable to be imposed
on by partial recommendations; but the people
generally know their neighbours. And, to me, the
act in question seems to have hit a proper medium

106 The Works of [1755

between the two modes of appointing. The people
choose, and if the governor approves, he grants the
commission; if not, they are to choose a second, and
even a third time. Out of three choices it is prob-
able one may be right; and where an officer is ap-
proved both by superiors and inferiors, there is the
greatest prospect of those advantages that attend a
good agreement in the service. This mode of choice
is moreover agreeable to the liberty and genius of
our constitution. It is similar to the manner in
which by our laws sheriffs and coroners are chosen
and approved. And yet it has more regard to the
prerogative than the mode of choice in some colo-
nies, where the military officers are either chosen
absolutely by the companies themselves, or by the
House of Representatives, without any negative on
that choice, or any approbation necessary from the
governor.

Y. But is that agreeable to the English constitu-
tion?

X. Considered in this light, I think it is ; British
subjects, by removing into America, cultivating a
wilderness, extending the dominion, and increasing
the wealth, commerce, and power of their mother
country at the hazard of their lives and fortunes,
ought not, and in fact do not, thereby lose their
native rights. There is a power in the crown to
grant a continuance of those rights to such subjects
in any part of the world, and to their posterity born
in such new country; and for the farther encour-
agement and reward of such merit, to grant addi-
tional liberties and privileges, not used in England,

1755] Benjamin Franklin 107

but suited to the different circumstances of different
colonies. If then the grants of those additional
liberties and privileges may be regularly made under
an English constitution, they may be enjoyed agree-
ably to that constitution.

Y. But the act is very short; there are num-
berless circumstances and occasions pertaining to a
body of armed men which are not, as they ought to
have been, expressly provided for in the act.

X. It is true there are not express provisions
in the act for all circumstances, but there is a
power lodged by the act in the governor and field-
officers of the regiments to make all such provisions
in the articles of war which they may form and
establish.

y. But can it be right in the legislature, by any
act, to delegate their power of making laws to others?

X. I believe not, generally; but certainly in
particular cases it may. Legislatures may, and fre-
quently do, give to corporations power to make by-
laws for their own government. And in this case
the act of Parliament gives the power of making
articles of war for the government of the army to
the King alone, and there is no doubt but the Par-
liament understands the rights of government.

Y. Are you sure the act of Parliament gives such
power?

X. This is the act. The power I mention is here
in the 55th section: " Provided always, that it shall
and may be lawful to and for his Majesty to form,
make, and establish articles of war for the better
government of his Majesty's forces, and for bringing

108 The Works of [1755

offenders against the same to justice; and to erect
and constitute courts-martial, with power to try,
hear, and determine any crimes or offences by such
articles of war, and inflict penalties by sentence or
judgment of the same." And here you see, bound
up with the act, the articles of war, made by his
Majesty in pursuance of the act, and providing for
every circumstance.

Z. It is, sure enough. I had been told that our
act of Assembly was impertinently singular in this
particular.

X. The governor himself, in a message to the
House, expressly recommended this act of Parlia-
ment for their imitation, in forming the militia bill.

Z. I never heard that before.

X. But it is true. The Assembly, however,
considering that this militia would consist chiefly of
freeholders, have varied a little from that part of the
act of Parliament, in favor of liberty ; they have not
given the sole power of making those articles of war
to the governor, as that act does to the King; but
have joined with the governor, for that purpose, a
number of officers to be chosen by the people. The
articles, moreover, are not to be general laws
binding on all the province, nor on any man who
has not first approved of them and voluntarily en-
gaged to observe them.

Z. Is there no danger that the governor and
officers may make those articles too severe ?

X. Not without you can suppose them enemies
to the service and to their country; for, if they
should make such as are unfit for freemen and

1755] Benjamin Franklin 109

Englishmen to be subjected to, they will get no
soldiers; nobody will engage. In some cases, how-
ever, if you and I were in actual service, I believe
we should both think it necessary for our own
safety, that the articles should be pretty severe.

Z. What cases are they?

X. Suppose a sentinel should betray his trust,
give intelligence to the enemy, or conduct them into
our quarters.

Z. To be sure there should be severe punishments
for such crimes, or we might all be ruined.

X. Choose reasonable men for your officers, and
you need not fear their making reasonable laws ; and
if they make such, I hope reasonable men will not
refuse to engage under them.

Y. But here is a thing I do not like. By this act
of Assembly the Quakers are neither compelled to
muster nor to pay a fine if they do not.

X. It is true; nor could they be compelled
either to muster or pay a fine of that kind by any
militia law made here. They are exempted by the
charter and fundamental laws of the province.

Y. How so?

X. See here ; it is the first clause in the charter.
I will read it: "Because no people can be truly
happy, though under the greatest enjoyment of
civil liberties, if abridged of the freedom of their
consciences as to their religious profession and wor-
ship ; and Almighty God being the only lord of con-
science, father of lights and spirits, and the author
as well as object of all divine knowledge, faith, and
worship, who only doth enlighten the minds, and

no The Works of [1755

persuade and convince the understandings of people,
I do hereby grant and declare, That no person or
persons inhabiting in this province or territories,
who shall confess and acknowledge one Almighty
God, the creator, upholder, and ruler of the world,
and profess him or themselves obliged to live quietly
under the civil government, shall be, in any case,
molested or prejudiced in his or their person or
estate because of his or their conscientious persuasion
or practice, nor be compelled to frequent, or main-
tain any religious worship, place, or ministry, con-
trary to his or their mind, or to do or suffer any
other act OR thing, contrary to their religious
persuasion." And, in the 8th section of the same
charter, you see a declaration, that "neither the
proprietor, nor his heirs or assigns, shall procure or
do any thing or things whereby the liberties in this
charter contained or expressed, nor any part thereof,
shall be infringed or broken ; and if any thing shall be
procured or done by any person or persons contrary
to these presents, it shall be held of no force or
effect." This liberty of conscience, granted by
charter, is also established by the first law in our
book, and confirmed by the crown. And, moreover,
the governor has an express instruction from the
proprietaries, that, in case of making any militia
law, he shall take especial care that the charter be
not infringed in this respect. Besides, most of our
petitions for a militia from the moderate part of the
people requested particularly that due regard might
be had to scrupulous and tender consciences. When
taxes are raised, however, for the King's service, the

1755] Benjamin Franklin in

Quakers and Menonists pay their part of them, and
a great part; for, as their frugality and industry
make them generally wealthy, their proportion is the
greater compared with their numbers. And out of
these taxes those men are paid who go into actual
service. As for mustering and training, no militia
are anywhere paid for that. It is by many justly
delighted in, as a manly exercise. But those who
are engaged in actual service for any time ought un-
doubtedly to have pay.

Y. There is no provision in this militia act to pay
them.

X. There is a provision that no regiment, com-
pany, or party, though engaged in the militia, shall
be obliged "to more than three days' march, &c,
without an express engagement for that purpose,
first voluntarily entered into and subscribed by
every man, so to march or remain in garrison."
And it is to be supposed that no man will subscribe
such particular engagement without reasonable pay
or other encouragement.

y. But where is that pay to come from?

X. From the government to be sure ; and out of
the money struck by the act for granting ^60,000.

Z. Yes ; but those who serve must pay a share of
the tax, as well as those who do not.

X. Perhaps not. It is to be supposed that those
who engage in the service for any time, upon pay,
will be chiefly single men, and they are expressly ex-
empted from the tax by the £60,000 act. Conse-
quently those who do not serve must pay the more
for the sum granted must be made up.

ii2 The Works of [1755

Z. I never heard before that they were exempted
by that act.

X. It is so, I assure you.

Y. But there is no provision in the militia act for
the maimed.

X. If they are poor, they are provided for by the
laws of their country. There is no other provision
by any militia law that I know of. If they have be-
haved well, and suffered in their country's cause, they
deserve, moreover, some grateful notice of their ser-
vice and some assistance from the common treasury ;
and if any particular township should happen to be
overburthened, they may, on application to the gov-
ernment, reasonably expect relief.

Z. Though the Quakers and others conscientious-
ly scrupulous of bearing arms are exempted, as you
say, by charter, they might, being a majority in the
Assembly, have made the law compulsory on others.
At present it is so loose that nobody is obliged by it
who does not voluntarily engage.

X. They might, indeed, have made the law com-
pulsory on all others. But it seems they thought it
more equitable and generous to leave to all as much
liberty as they enjoy themselves, and not lay even a
seeming hardship on others which they themselves
decline to bear. They have, however, granted all
we asked of them. Our petitions set forth that " we
were freely willing and ready to defend ourselves and
country, and all we wanted was legal authority, order,
and discipline." These are now afforded by the law,
if we think fit to make use of them. And, indeed, I
do not see the advantage of compelling people of any

i755J Benjamin Franklin 113

sect into martial service merely for the sake of rais-
ing numbers. I have been myself in some service of
danger, and I always thought cowards rather weak-
ened than strengthened the party. Fear is con-
tagious, and a panic once begun spreads like wildfire,
and infects the stoutest heart. All men are not by
nature brave; and a few who are so will do more
effectual service by themselves than when accom-
panied by and mixed with a multitude of poltroons,
who only create confusion and give advantage to the
enemy.

Z. What signifies what you thought or think?
Others think differently ; and all the wise legislatures
in the other colonies have thought fit to compel all
sorts of persons to bear arms or surfer heavy penalties.

X. As you say, what I thought or think is not of
much consequence. But a wiser legislator than all
those you mention put together, and who better
knew the nature of mankind, made his military law
very different from theirs in that respect.

Z. What legislator do you mean ?

X. I mean God himself, who would have no man
led to battle that might rather wish to be at home,
either from fear or other causes.

Z. Where do you find that law ?

X. It is in the 20th chapter of Deuteronomy, where
are these words: When thou goest out to battle against
thine enemies, the officers shall speak unto the people,
saying, What man is there that hath built a new
house, and hath not dedicated it ? Let him go and re-
turn to his house, lest he die in the battle, and another
man dedicate it. And what man is he that hath

ii4 The Works of [1755

planted a vineyard, and hath not yet eaten of it f Let
him also go and return unto his house, lest he die in the
battle, and another man eat of it. And what man is
there that hath betrothed a wife, and hath not taken
her ? Let him go and return unto his house, lest he
die in the battle, and another man take her. And —

Z. These altogether could not be many ; and this
has no relation to cowardice.

X. If you had not interrupted me, I was coming
to that part (verse 8) : And the officers shall speak fur-
ther unto the people, and they shall say, What man is
there that is fearful and faint-hearted? Let him
go and return unto his house, lest his brethren's heart
faint, as well as his heart; that is, lest he communi-
cate his fears, and his brave brethren catch the con-
tagion, to the ruin of the whole army. Accordingly,
we find that, under this military law, no people in the
world fought more gallantly, or performed greater
actions, than the Hebrew soldiery. And if you would
be informed what proportion of people would be dis-
charged by such a proclamation, you will find that
matter determined by an actual experiment, made by
General Gideon, as related in the 7th Chapter of
Judges; for he, having assembled thirty- two thou-
sand men against the Midianites, proclaimed, accord-
ing to law (verse 3): Whosoever is fearful and
afraid, let him return and depart early from Mount
Gilead.

Z. And pray, how many departed?

X. The text says there departed twenty-two thou-
sand, and there remained but ten thousand men. A
very great sifting ! and yet on that particular occasion

i75s] Benjamin Franklin 115

a farther sifting was required. Now it seems to me
that this militia law of ours, which gives the brave
all the advantages that they can desire, of order,
authority, discipline, and the like, and compels no
cowards into their company, is such a kind of sieve
as the Mosaic proclamation. For, with us, not only
every man who has built a house, or planted a vine-
yard, or betrothed a wife, or is afraid of his flesh,
but the narrow bigot, filled with sectarian malice, if
such there be, who hates Quakers more than he loves
his country, his friends, his wife, or family, may say:
/ will not engage, for I do not like the act; or, I do
not like the officers that are chosen; or, / do not like
the articles of war; and so we shall not be troubled
with them, but all that engage will be hearty.

Z. For my part, I am no coward, but hang me if I
will fight to save the Quakers.

X. That is to say, you will not pump ship, be-
cause it will save the rats as well as yourself.

Y. You have answered most of the objections I
have heard against the act to my satisfaction; but
there is one remaining. The method of carrying it
into execution seems so roundabout, I am afraid we
cannot have the benefit of it in any reasonable time.

X. I cannot see much in that objection. The sev-
eral neighbourhoods out of which companies are
formed, may meet and choose their company officers
in one and the same day ; and the regiments may be
formed, and field-officers chosen, in a week or ten
days after, who may immediately proceed to consider
the several militia laws of Britain and the colonies,
and, with the governor, form out of them such

n6 The Works of [1755

articles as will appear most suitable for the freemen
of this province, who incline to bear arms voluntarily ;
and the whole may be in order in a month from the
first elections, if common diligence be used. And,
indeed, as the colonies are at present the prize con-
tended for between Britain and France, and the lat-
ter, by the last advices, seems to be meditating some
grand blow, part of which may probably fall on Penn-
sylvania, either by land or sea, or both, it behoves us
I think, to make the best use we can of this act, and
carry it immediately into execution, both in town
and country. If there are any material defects in
it, experience will best discover them, and show
what is proper or necessary to amend them. The
approaching winter will afford us some time to arm
and prepare, and more leisure, than other seasons,
for exercising and improving in good discipline.

Z. But if this act should be carried into execution,
prove a good one, and answer the end, what shall we
have to say against the Quakers at the next election ?

X. O my friends, let us on this occasion cast from
us all these little party views, and consider ourselves
as Englishmen and Pennsylvanians. Let us think
only of the services of our King, the honor and safety
of our country, and vengeance on its murdering ene-
mies. If good be done, what imports it by whom
it is done ? The glory of serving and saving others is
superior to the advantage of being served or secured.
Let us resolutely and generously unite in our coun-
try's cause, in which to die is the sweetest of all
deaths, and may the God of armies bless our honest
endeavours.

i7S5] Benjamin Franklin 117

CXXVIII

TO MRS. DEBORAH FRANKLIN

Easton, Saturday Night, 27 December, 1755.

My Dear Child: — I received with pleasure yours
of the 24th, which acquainted me of your and the
family's welfare. I am glad to hear that the com-
panies are forming in town and choosing their officers,
and I hope the example will be followed throughout
the country. We all continue well, but much
harassed with business. After many difficulties and
disappointments we marched two companies yester-
day over the mountains, namely, Aston's and
Trump's. We wait here only for shoes, arms, and
blankets, expected hourly, and then shall move to-
ward Berks County. Our compliments to Mrs.
Masters and all inquiring friends. When you write
next, direct to Mr. Read's care at Reading. My duty
to mother, and love to the children. I hope to find
you all well at my return. My love to Mr. Hall.
We have no fresh news here of mischief, to be de-
pended on. Send the newspapers and my letters to
Reading, and let me have all the little news about the
X Y Z proceedings, officers, &c. I am obliged to
Goody Smith for kindly remembering me. I am,
with great affection, your loving husband,

B. Franklin.

n8 The Works of [1756

CXXIX

COMMISSION FROM LIEUT. -GOVERNOR MORRIS

The Honorable Robert Hunter Morris, Esquire, Lieutenant-
Governor, and Commander-in-Chief of the Province of
Pennsylvania, and Counties of Newcastle, Kent, and
Sussex, on Delaware, to Benjamin Franklin.

I do hereby authorize and empower you to take into your
charge the County of Northampton, to dismiss all persons
who have been commissioned by me to any military com-
mand, and to put others into their places ; and to fill up
the blank commissions herewith delivered, with the names
of such persons as you shall judge fit for his Majesty's ser-
vice ; hereby ratifying all your acts and proceedings, done
in virtue of this power; and approving the expenses ac-
cruing thereupon. And I do further order and enjoin all
officers and soldiers to yield obedience to you in the execu-
tion of this power, and all magistrates, sheriffs, and others,
in any kind of civil authority, and all his Majesty's liege
subjects, to be aiding and assisting you in the premises.
Given under my hand and seal, at Reading, this 5th day
of January, 1756.1

Robert H. Morris.

cxxx

TO MRS. DEBORAH FRANKLIN

Bethlehem, 15 January, 1756.

My Dear Child : — We move this day for Gnaden-
hutten. If you have not cash sufficient, call upon Mr.

1 This was a special and temporary commission; after Franklin's
return, in February, he was chosen and commissioned colonel of the
Philadelphia regiment.

1756] Benjamin Franklin 119

Moore, the treasurer, with that order of the Assembly
and desire him to pay you one hundred pounds of it.
If he has not cash on hand, Mr. Norris (to whom my
respects) will advance it for him. We shall have with
us about one hundred and thirty men, and shall en-
deavour to act cautiously, so as to give the enemy no
advantage through our negligence. Make yourself
therefore easy. Give my hearty love to all friends. I
hope in a fortnight or three weeks, God willing, to see
the intended line of forts finished, and then I shall
make a trip to Philadelphia, and send away the
lottery tickets, and pay off the prizes, though you
may pay such as come to hand of those sold in
Philadelphia of my signing. They were but few, the
most being sold abroad; and those that sold them
and received the money will pay off the prizes. I
hope you have paid Mrs. Stephens for the bills. I
am, my dear child, your loving husband,

B. Franklin.

CXXXI

TO MRS. DEBORAH FRANKLIN

Gnadenhutten, 25 January, 1756.

My Dear Child: — This day week we arrived
here. I wrote to you the same day, and once since.
We all continue well, thanks be to God. We have
been hindered with bad weather, yet our fort is in a
good defensible condition, and we have every day
more convenient living . Two more are to be built , one
on each side of this, at about fifteen miles' distance.

120 The Works of [17 56

I hope both will be done in a week or ten days, and
then I purpose to bend my course homewards.

We have enjoyed your roast beef, and this day
began on the roast veal. All agree that they are both
the best that ever were of the kind. Your citizens,
that have their dinners hot and hot, know nothing of
good eating. We find it in much greater perfection
when the kitchen is four score miles from the dining
room.

The apples are extremely welcome, and do bravely
to eat after our salt pork; the minced pies are not
yet come to hand, but I suppose we shall find them
among the things expected up from Bethlehem on
Tuesday; the capillaire is excellent, but, none of us
having taken cold as yet, we have only tasted it.

As to our lodging, it is on deal featherbeds, in
warm blankets, and much more comfortable than
when we lodged at our inn the first night after we
left home ; for, the woman being about to put very
damp sheets on the bed, we desired her to air them
first ; half an hour afterwards she told us the bed was
ready, and the sheets well aired. I got into bed, but
jumped out immediately, finding them as cold as
death, and partly frozen. She had aired them indeed,
but it was out upon the hedge. I was forced to wrap
myself up in my great coat and woollen trowsers.
Every thing else about the bed was shockingly dirty.

As I hope in a little time to be with you and my
family, and chat things over, I now only add that I
am, dear Debby, your affectionate husband,

B. Franklin.

1756] Benjamin Franklin 121

CXXXII

TO A FRIEND z

Gnadenhutten, 25 January, 1756.

Dear Sir: — We got to Hays's the same evening we
left you, and reviewed Craig's company by the way.
Much of the next morning was spent in exchanging
the bad arms for the good. Wayne's company hav-
ing joined us, we that night reached Uplinger's,
where we got into good quarters, and Saturday
morning we began to march towards Gnadenhutten,
and proceeded nearly two miles; but it seeming to
set in for a rainy day, the men unprovided with
great coats, and many unable to secure effectually
their arms from the wet, we thought it advisable to
face about, and return to our former quarters, where
the men might dry themselves and lie warm ; whereas,
had they proceeded, they would have come in wet to
Gnadenhutten, where shelter and opportunity of dry-
ing themselves that night were uncertain. In fact, it
rained all day, and we were all pleased that we had
not proceeded.

The next day, being Sunday, we marched hither,
where we arrived about two o'clock in the afternoon,
and before five had enclosed our camp with a strong
breastwork musket-proof; and, with the boards
brought here before by my order from Dunker's Mill,
we got ourselves under some shelter from the weather.
Monday was so dark, with a thick fog all day, that
we could neither look out for a place to build, nor

1 This letter was probably directed to one of the commissioners, but
the name of the individual is not known.

122 The Works of [1756

see where materials were to be had. Tuesday morn-
ing we looked around us, pitched on a place, and
marked out our fort on the ground. By three in the
afternoon the logs were all cut, and many of them
hauled to the spot, the ditch dug to set them in three
feet deep, and many were pointed and set up. The
next day we were hindered by rain most of the day.
Thursday we resumed our work, and before night
were perfectly well enclosed ; and on Friday morning,
the stockade was finished and part of the platform
within erected, which was completed next morning,
when we dismissed Foulke's and Wetherhold's com-
panies, and sent Hays down for a convoy of provi-
sions. This day we hoisted the flag, made a general
discharge of our pieces, which had been long loaded,
and of our two swivels, and named the place Fort
Allen in honor of our old friend. It is one hundred
and twenty-five feet long, and fifty wide ; the stock-
ades most of them a foot thick, three feet in the
ground and twelve feet out, pointed at the top.

This is an account of our week's work, which I
thought might give you some satisfaction. Foulke is
gone to build another fort between this and Schuyl-
kill fort, which I hope will be finished (as Trexler is
to join him) in a week or ten days, as soon as Hays
returns. I shall detach another party to erect another
at Surfass's, which I hope may be finished in the
same time, and then I suppose end my campaign,
God willing, and do myself the pleasure of seeing you
on my return. I can now add no more than that I
am with great esteem and affection, &c,

B. Franklin.

1756] Benjamin Franklin 123

CXXXIII

TO ROBERT HUNTER MORRIS, GOVERNOR OF PENNSYL-
VANIA
Fort Allen, at Gnadenhutten, 26 January, 1756.

Sir: — We left Bethlehem the 16th instant, with
Foulke's company forty-six men, the detachment of
McLaughlin's twenty, and seven wagons laden with
stores and provisions. We got that night to Hays's
quarters, where Wayne's company joined us from
Nazareth. The next day we marched cautiously
through the gap of the mountain, a very dangerous
pass, and got to Uplinger's, twenty-one miles from
Bethlehem, the roads being bad and the wagons
moving slowly.

This present Monday we are erecting a third house
in the fort to accommodate the garrison. As soon
as Captain Hays returns with the convoy of stores
and provisions, which I hope may be to-morrow, I
purpose to send Arndt and Hays to join Captain
Trump in erecting the middle fort there, purposing
to remain here between them and Foulke, ready to
assist and supply both, as occasion may require ; and
I hope in a week or ten days, weather favoring, that
those two forts may be finished, the line of forts com-
pleted and garrisoned, the rangers in motion, and the
intermediate guards and watches disbanded, unless
they are permitted and encouraged to go after the
enemy to the Susquehanna.

At present the expense in this county is prodigious.
We have on foot and in pay the following com-
panies, viz.: Trump's, consisting of fifty men;

124 The Works of [1756

Aston 's, fifty; Wayne's, fifty-five; Foulke's, forty-
six; Trexler's, forty-eight; and Wetherhold's, forty-
four — without the Fork; Arndt's, fifty; Craig's,
thirty; and Martin's, thirty — in the Irish settlements;
Van Elten's, thirty — at Minisink; Hays's, forty-five;
detachment of McLaughlin's, twenty; Parsons 's,
twenty-four — at Easton; total, five hundred and
twenty- two.

This, Sir, is a particular account of our transac-
tions, and the present state of affairs in this county.
I am glad to learn, by your favor of the 2 1st, just re-
ceived, that you have thoughts of coming to Beth-
lehem, as I may hope for an opportunity of waiting
upon your Honor there, after our works are finished,
and of communicating every thing more fully. I
now only add, that I am, with dutiful respect, Sir,
&c, B. Franklin.1

1 He wrote to Mr. Horsefield, January 25th: "Foulke with his com-
pany marches this day to build another fort between this and Fort
Lebanon in the Forks of the Schuylkill. He is to be assisted by Trex-
ler's company, and a detachment of Wetherhold's, which also leaves
us this day. My son, with Hays's company and Arndt's, marches in
a few days to Surf ass's place (where Trump is also expected), to erect
another fort between this and Fort Hamilton near Brodhead's. I
purpose to remain here between them till both are finished, with
Wayne and the detachment of Davis's, that I may be able to supply
and assist on either side as occasion requires. This is the present state
of our affairs, of which please to inform our friends, as I cannot now
write to them."

Again, to Mr. Samuel Rhoads, January 26th: "We have built one
pretty strong fort, and by the end of next week, or in ten days, hope
to finish two more, one on each side of this, and at fifteen miles' dis-
tance. These, I suppose, will complete the projected line from Dela-
ware to the Susquehanna. I then purpose, God willing, to return
homewards, and enjoy the pleasures I promise myself, of finding my
friends well."

In another letter to Mr. Horsefield, written on the 28th, he said: "I

1756] Benjamin Franklin I25

CXXXIV

TO MRS. DEBORAH FRANKLIN

Fort Allen, at Gnadenhuttbn, 30 January, 1756-

My Dear Child :— Every other day, since we have
been here, it has rained, more or less, to our no small
hindrance. It rained yesterday, and now again to-
day, which prevented our marching; so I will sit
down half an hour to confer a little with you.

All the things you sent me, from time to time, are
safely come to hand, and our living grows every day
more comfortable; yet there are many things we
still want, but do not send for them, as we hope our
stay here will not be long.

I thought to have wrote you a long letter, but
here comes in a number of people from different
parts, that have business with me, and interrupt
me- we have but one room, and that quite public;
so I can only add, that I have just received yours,
Sally's and Grace's letters, of the 25th, with one
from Mr. Hughes, and one from Mr. Thomson.
Present my respects to those gentlemen (and ex-
cuse my not writing, as I have nothing material,
and am much hurried), and love to all our friends
and neighbours. Billy presents his duty to you, and
love to his sister; all the gentlemen their compli-
ments; they drink your health at every meal, having
always something on the table to put them m mind
of you. .

have the pleasure to inform you, that the six wagons are just arrived
and I Suppose all right, though I have not yet had tune to examine
the contents. There are ten Lehigh people buzzing in both ears white
I write so^can only add my thanks for your care and readiness to
serve the province."

126 The Works of [1756

I found, among the newspapers, Mr. Shoen's bills
of exchange, which should not have been sent up
here; I suppose it was by mistake, and mention it,
that you need not be troubled to look more for
them.

I am, dear girl, your loving husband,

B. Franklin.

CXXXV

TO MRS. DEBORAH FRANKLIN

Fort Allen, 31 January, 1756.

My Dear: — I wrote a line to you yesterday, and,
having this opportunity, write another, just to let
you know that we all continue well, and much the
better for the refreshments you have sent us; in
short, we do very well ; for, though there are a great
number of things, besides what we have, that used
to seem necessary to comfortable living, yet we have
learned to do without them.

Mr. Beatty is a very useful man here, and the
Doctor another. Besides their services to the pub-
lic, they are very agreeable companions to me.
They, with Captain Clapham, Mr. Edmond, and the
rest of our company, present their hearty respects
to you for the goodies. Billy presents his duty to
you and his grandmother, and love to his sister.
Distribute my compliments among our acquaint-
ance, and hearty love to all friends. The bearer
waits, so that I cannot write to my dear Sally. I
am, dear girl, your loving husband,

B. Franklin.

1756] Benjamin Franklin 127

CXXXVI

TO MRS. JANE MECOM

Philadelphia, 12 February, 1756.

Dear Sister: — I condole with you on the loss of
our dear brother.1 As our number grows less, let
us love one another proportionably more.

I am just returned from my military expedition,
and now my time is taken up in the Assembly.
Providence seems to require various duties of me.
I know not what will be next; but I find, the
more I seek for leisure and retirement from business,
the more I am engaged in it. Benny, I understand,
inclines to leave Antigua. He may be in the right.
I have no objection. My love to brother and to
your children. I am, dearest sister, your affec-
tionate brother,

B. Franklin.

CXXXVII

TO MISS E. HUBBARD 3

Philadelphia, 23 February, 1756.

— I condole with you. We have lost a most dear
and valuable relation. But it is the will of God and
nature that these mortal bodies be laid aside when
the soul is to enter into real life. This is rather an

1 John Franklin, who died at Boston, in January, 1756, at the age
of sixty-five.

2 John Franklin married a second wife, by the name of Hubbard, a
widow. Miss E. Hubbard, to whom this letter was addressed, was
her daughter by a former marriage.

128 The Works of [1756

embryo state, a preparation for living. A man is
not completely born until he be dead. Why then
should we grieve that a new child is born among the
immortals, a new member added to their happy
society ?

We are spirits. That bodies should be lent us,
while they can afford us pleasure, assist us in ac-
quiring knowledge, or in doing good to our fellow
creatures, is a kind and benevolent act of God. When
they become unfit for these purposes, and afford us
pain instead of pleasure, instead of an aid become an
incumbrance, and answer none of the intentions for
which they were given, it is equally kind and bene-
volent that a way is provided by which we may get
rid of them. Death is that way. We ourselves, in
some cases, prudently choose a partial death. A
mangled painful limb which cannot be restored we
willingly cut off. He who plucks out a tooth parts
with it freely, since the pain goes with it; and he
who quits the whole body, parts at once with all
pains and possibilities of pains and diseases which
it was liable to or capable of making him suffer.

Our friend and we were invited abroad on a party
of pleasure, which is to last for ever. His chair was
ready first, and he is gone before us. We could not
all conveniently start together ; and why should you
and I be grieved at this, since we are soon to follow,
and know where to find him? Adieu.

B. Franklin.1

1 On a similar occasion he wrote to his sister, a few days afterwards,
as follows: " It is remarkable that so many breaches by death should
be made in our family in so short a space. Out of seventeen children

1756] Benjamin Franklin 129

CXXXVIII

TO MRS. DEBORAH FRANKLIN

Frederick-town, Virginia, 21 March, 1756.

My Dear Child: — We got here yesterday after-
noon, and purpose sailing to-day if the wind be fair.
Peter was taken ill with a fever and pain in his side
before I got to Newcastle. I had him bled there,
and put him into the chair wrapped up warm, as he
could not bear the motion of the horse, and got him
here pretty comfortably. He went immediately to
bed, and took some camomile tea, and this morning
is about again and almost well. I leave my horses
at Mr. Milliken's, a gentleman that lives on Bohemia
River.

Among the government orders I left with you, are
two written ones drawn on Mr. Charles Norris for
considerable sums. You did not tell me, when I
asked you, what money you had in hand. If you
want before my return, present one of those orders

that our father had, thirteen lived to grow up and settle in the world.

I remember these thirteen (some of us then very young) all at one

table, when an entertainment was made at our house, on occasion of

the return of our brother Josiah, who had been absent in the East

Indies, and unheard of for nine years. Of these thirteen, there now

remain but three. As our number diminishes, let our affection to each

other rather increase; for, besides its being our duty, it is our interest,

since the more affectionate relations are to each other, the more they

are respected by the rest of the world."

Again, speaking of the death of an acquaintance, he wrote: "Your

neighbour must have been pretty well advanced in years when he

died. I remember him a young man when I was a very young boy.

In looking back, how short the time seems! I suppose that all the

passages of our lives that we have forgotten, being so many links taken

out of the chain, give the more distant parts leave, as it were, to come

apparently nearer together."
vol. in. — 9.

130 The Works of [1756

to Mr. Norris, and he will pay the whole or a part,
as you have occasion. Billy will also pay you some
money, which I did not care to take with me from
Newcastle. Be careful of your accounts, particu-
larly about the lottery affairs. My duty to mother,
and love to Sally, Debby, Gracy, &c, not forgetting
the Goody. Desire Dr. Bond to send me some of
those pills by post. I forgot to take any with me.
Let Mr. Parker know I received the money he sent
me on the post-office and money-paper accounts. I
forgot to write it to him, though I fully intended it.
If there is peace I shall probably not come home so
soon as I purposed to do in case the ships from Eng-
land bring a declaration of war, or in case the un-
certainty continues. I am, my dear child, your

loving husband,

B. Franklin.

CXXXIX

TO MRS. DEBORAH FRANKLIN

Williamsburg, 30 March, 1756.

My Dear Child: — I wrote to you via New York
the day after my arrival, acquainting you that I had
a fine journey and passage down the Bay, being but
four days from Philadelphia to Colonel Hunter's,
though stopped near a day on the road.1 I have
been well ever since, quite clear of the dizziness I
complained of, and as gay as a bird, not beginning
yet to long for home, the worry of perpetual business

1 Franklin and Colonel Hunter were at this time jointly postmasters-
general of the colonies, and the business of the post-office seems to
have been the object of this journey to Virginia.

1756] Benjamin Franklin 131

being yet fresh in my memory. Mr. Hunter is
much better than I expected to find him, and we are
daily employed in settling our affairs. About the
end of the week we are to take a tour into the coun-
try. Virginia is a pleasant country, now in full
spring; the people obliging and polite. I shall
return in the man-of-war to New York with Colonel
Hunter and his lady; at least, this is proposed;
but, if a more convenient opportunity offers, per-
haps I may not stay so long as the end of the next
month, when that ship is to sail. I am, my dear

Debby, your loving husband,

B. Franklin.1

CXL

TO JOSEPH HUEY

Philadelphia, 6 June, 1756.'

Sir: — I received your kind letter of the 2d inst.,
and am glad to hear that you increase in strength.

1 On the 10th of June he wrote from Philadelphia to William Par-
sons: " It is now a long time since I had the pleasure of a line from you.
I am now returned from Virginia, where I was near two months. I
should be glad to learn from you the present state of the forces in your
county, and of the people. If in any thing I can serve you, command
freely your old friend."

2 Mr. Sparks publishes this letter as addressed to George Whitefield
under date of June 6, 1753. In a note he says: "The above letter has
often been printed, and always, I believe, as having been written to
Whitefield, but among the author's MSS. I find the first draft, with
the following indorsement in Franklin's handwriting: 'Letter to Joseph
Huey.'" Aside from the intrinsic improbability of Franklin's preach-
ing such a sermon as this to Whitefield, there is no good reason to
doubt that it was written to the man to whom it was addressed. The
first draft, from which we print, is in the American Philosophical So-
ciety in Philadelphia. — Editor.

i32 The Works of [1756

I hope you will continue mending till you recover
your former health and firmness. Let me know if
you still use the cold bath, and what effect it has.

As to the kindness you mention, I wish it could
have been of more service to you. But if it had, the
only thanks I should desire is, that you would
always be equally ready to serve any other person
that may need your assistance, and so let good
offices go round, for mankind are all of a family.

For my own part, when I am employed in serving
others, I do not look upon myself as conferring
favours, but as paying debts. In my travels and
since my settlement I have received much kindness
from men, to whom I shall never have any oppor-
tunity of making the least direct return, and num-
berless mercies from God, who is infinitely above
being benefited by our services. These kindnesses
from men I can therefore only return on their fellow-
men; and I can only show my gratitude for those
mercies from God, by a readiness to help his other
children and my brethren. For I do not think that
thanks and compliments tho' repeated weekly, can
discharge our real obligations to each other, and
much less those to our Creator.

You will see in this my notion of good works, that
I am far from expecting (as you suppose) that I
shall ever merit heaven by them. By heaven we
understand a state of happiness, infinite in degree
and eternal in duration. I can do nothing to de-
serve such reward. He that for giving a draught
of water to a thirsty person should expect to be paid
with a good plantation, would be modest in his de-

1756] Benjamin Franklin 133

mands, compared with those who think they de-
serve heaven for the little good they do on earth.
Even the mixed, imperfect pleasures we enjoy in this
world are rather from God's goodness than our merit;
how much more such happiness of heaven. For my
own part, I have not the vanity to think I deserve it,
the folly to expect it, nor the ambition to desire it;
but content myself in submitting to the will and
disposal of that God who made me, who hitherto
preserv'd and bless 'd me, and in whose fatherly
goodness I may well confide, that he will never make
me miserable, and that even the afflictions I may at
any time suffer shall tend to my benefit.

The faith you mention has doubtless its use in the
world ; I do not desire it to be diminished, nor would
I endeavour to lessen it in any man. But I wish it
were more productive of good works than I have
generally seen it. I mean real good works, works
of kindness, charity, mercy, and publick spirit; not
holiday-keeping, sermon reading or hearing, per-
forming church ceremonies, or making long prayers,
filled with flatteries and compliments, — despis'd even
by wise men, and much less capable of pleasing the
Deity. The worship of God is a duty, the hearing
and reading of sermons may be useful; but if men
rest in hearing and praying, as too many do, it is as
if a tree should value itself in being water 'd and
putting forth leaves, tho' it never produc'd any
fruit.

Your great Master tho't much less of these out-
ward appearances and professions than many of the
modern disciples. He preferred the doers of the

134 The Works of [1756

word to the mere hearers; the Son that seemingly
refus'd to obey his father and yet perform 'd his
command, to him that profess 'd his readiness but
neglected the work; the heretical but charitable
Samaritan, to the uncharitable tho' orthodox priest
and sanctified Levite; and those who gave food to
the hungry, drink to the thirsty, raiment to the
naked, entertainment to the stranger, and relief to
the sick, &c, tho' they never heard of his name, he
declares shall in the last day be accepted, when those
who cry Lord, Lord, who value themselves on their
faith, tho' great enough to perform miracles, but
have neglected good works, shall be rejected, he
professed that he came not to call the righetous but
sinners to repentance; which imply 'd his modest
opinion that there were some in His time so good
that they need not hear even him for improvement ;
but nowadays we have scarce a little parson, that
does not think it the duty of every man within his
reach to sit under his petty ministrations, and that
whoever omits them * [all the rest of this letter is
torn out.]

[On the back of this letter is the following endorse-
ment.]

In writing to his brother, August 6, 1 747, Franklin says :
" I am glad to hear that Mr. Whitefield is safe arrived, and
recovered his health. He is a good man, and I love him."

1 Mr. Sparks concludes his letter with the words "offends God."
That is a very satisfactory conclusion, but we have no evidence that it
was Franklin's.

1756] Benjamin Franklin 135

CXLI

TO MRS. JANE MECOM

New York, 28 June, 1756.

Dear Sister: — I received here your letter of ex-
travagant thanks, which puts me in mind of the
story of the member of Parliament, who began one
of his speeches with saying he thanked God that he
was born and bred a Presbyterian; on which an-
other took leave to observe, that the gentleman
must needs be of a most grateful disposition, since
he was thankful for such very small matters.

You desire me to tell you what I know about
Benny's removal, and the reasons of it. Some time
last year, when I returned from a long journey, I
found a letter from him, which had been some time
unanswered, and it was some considerable time
afterwards before I knew of an opportunity to send
an answer. I should first have told you, that when
I set him up at Antigua, he was to have the use of
the printing-house on the same terms with his prede-
cessor, Mr. Smith; that is, allowing me one third part
of the profits. After this, finding him diligent and
careful, for his encouragement, I relinquished that
agreement, and let him know, that as you were re-
moved into a dearer house, if he paid you yearly a
certain sum, I forget what it was, towards discharg-
ing your rent, and another small sum to me, in sugar
and rum for my family use, he need keep no farther
accounts of the profits, but should enjoy all the rest
himself. I cannot remember what the whole of both

136 The Works of [1756

payments amounted to, but I think they did not
exceed twenty pounds a year.

The truth is, I intended, from the first, to give him
that printing-house; but as he was young and in-
experienced in the world, I thought it best not to do
it immediately, but to keep him a little dependent
for a time, to check the flighty unsteadiness of tem-
per, which, on several occasions, he had discovered;
and what I received from him, I concluded to lay
out in new letters (or types), that, when I should
give it to him entirely, it might be worth his accept-
ance; and if I should die first, I put it in my will,
that the letters should be all new cast for him.

This proposal of paying you and me a certain
annual sum did not please him; and he wrote to
desire I would explicitly tell him how long that
annual payment was to continue; whether, on pay-
ment of that, all prior demands I had against him,
for the arrears of our first agreement, were likewise
cancelled ; and finally insisted, that I would name a
certain sum that I would take for the printing-house,
and allow him to pay it off in parts as he could, and
then the yearly payments to cease, for, though he
had a high esteem for me, yet he loved freedom, and
his spirit could not bear dependence on any man,
though he were the best man living.

This was the letter, which casually remained, as
I said, so long unanswered ; at which he took farther
offence ; and before I could answer it, I received an-
other from him, acquainting me that he had come
to a resolution to remove from the Island; that his
resolution was fixed, and nothing that could be said

i756J Benjamin Franklin 137

to him should move or shake it; and he proposed
another person to me, to carry on the business in
his room. This was immediately followed by an-
other and a third letter, to the same purpose, all
declaring the inflexibility of his determination to
leave the Island, but without saying where he pro-
posed to go, or what were his motives. So I wrote
him, that I would not attempt to change his resolu-
tions ; that I made no objections to his quitting, but
wished he had let me know where he was going ; that,
as to the person he recommended to succeed him, I
had kept the office there after Mr. Smith's decease,
in hopes it might be of use to him (Benny). I did
not incline to be concerned with any other there.
However, if the person would buy it, I named the
price; if not, I directed it to be packed up and
sent home. All I desired of him was to discharge
what he owed to Mr. Strahan, bookseller in London,
one of my friends, who had credited him on my
recommendation .

By this post I received the enclosed letter, and
understand the things are all arrived. I shall be
very glad to hear he does better in another place,
but I fear he will not for some years be cured of his
fickleness, and get fixed to any purpose; however,
we must hope for the best, as with this fault he has
many good qualities and virtues.

My love to brother and children, and to all that
love you. I am, dear sister, your affectionate
brother,

B. Franklin.

138 The Works of [1756

CXLII

TO WILLIAM PARSONS

New York, June 28, 1756.

Dear Friend: — I have received here your favor
of the 1 9th instant, with a copy of your remarks on
reviewing the forts, for which I am much obliged to
you; and I hope the governor and commissioners
will immediately take the necessary measures to
remedy every thing that you find amiss. I think
you hazarded yourself with too small escorts, and
am glad you got safe through. It appears plainly
that it will be of great use to review the forts fre-
quently. The expense must be inconsiderable com-
pared to the advantages and security that may be
derived from it.

Great part of the British regiments are arrived
here. The men are all in health, and look exceed-
ingly well. What will be undertaken this summer
is, I believe, unknown, or uncertain till the general's
arrival. Some of the officers think this year will be
chiefly spent in preparation for the next. Others
imagine there will be an accommodation. For my
part, I can make no judgment. This only I can
plainly see, that New York is growing immensely
rich by money brought into it from all quarters for
the pay and subsistence of the troops. General
Shirley, it is said, is to go home in the same ship that
brings Lord Loudoun, and to be made one of the
Lords of Trade. The Indians continue to scalp
now and then a man too close to Albany, Oswego,
and the camps. The New England forces are not

I756] Benjamin Franklin 139

yet complete. Those colonies have overdone them-
selves, and undertaken too much; more than they
are able to bear or perform.

With great esteem, I am, dear friend, affection-
ately yours,

B. Franklin.

CXLIII

TO GEO. WHITEFIELD

New York, July 2, 1756.

Dear Sir: — I received your favour of the 24th of
February with great pleasure, as it informed me of
your welfare, and expressed your continued regard
for me. I thank you for the pamphlet you en-
closed to me.1 As we have just observed a pro-
vincial fast on the same occasion, I thought it very
seasonable to be published in Pennsylvania; and
accordingly reprinted it immediately.

You mention your frequent wish that you were a
chaplain to the American army. I sometimes wish
that you and I were jointly employed by the crown
to settle a colony on the Ohio. I imagine that we
could do it effectually, and without putting the na-
tion to much expense; but I fear we shall never
be called upon for such a service. What a glorious
thing it would be to settle in that fine country a
large, strong body of religious and industrious people!

1 Doubtless, Whitefield's Short Address to Persons of all Denomina-
tions.

140 The Works of [1756

What a security to the other colonies and advan-
tage to Britain, by increasing her people, territory,
strength, and commerce! Might it not greatly
facilitate the introduction of pure religion among
the heathen, if we could, by such a colony, show
them a better sample of Christians than they com-
monly see in our Indian traders? — the most vicious
and abandoned wretches of our nation ! Life, like a
dramatic piece, should not only be conducted with
regularity, but, methinks, it should finish hand-
somely. Being now in the last act, I begin to cast
about for something fit to end with. Or, if mine be
more properly compared to an epigram, as some of
its lines are but barely tolerable, I am very desirous
of concluding with a bright point. In such an enter-
prise, I could spend the remainder of life with
pleasure; and I firmly believe God would bless us
with success, if we undertook it with a sincere regard
to His honour, the service of our gracious king, and
(which is the same thing) the public good.

I thank you cordially for your generous benefac-
tions to the German schools. They go on pretty
well ; and will do better, when Mr. Smith, who has
at present the principal charge of them, shall learn
to mind party- writing and party politics less, and
his proper business more; which, I hope, time will
bring about.

I thank you for your good wishes and prayers;
and am, with greatest esteem and affection, dear Sir,
your most obedient humble servant,

Benjamin Franklin.

My best respects to Mrs. Whitefield.

1756] Benjamin Franklin 141

CXLIV

TO THOMAS POWNALL *

Philadelphia, 19 August, 1756.

Sir: — I have done myself the honor to write you
twice since my return, relating to the proposed
road; but have as yet had no line from you.

Enclosed I send you a copy of the late treaty, or
conference, at Easton, with a letter from Bishop
Spangenberg to Mr. Norris, by which you will see
nothing is likely to come of the treaty. The Indians
are preparing to continue the war, and we see of how
little consequence Sir William Johnson's treaty has
been in our behalf. For my own part, I make no
doubt but the Six Nations have privily encouraged
these Indians to fall upon us. They have taken no
step to defend us, as their allies, nor to prevent the
mischief done us. I look upon the application made
through Sir William Johnson to these nations to

1 Thomas Pownall, commonly called Governor Pownall, came first
to America with Sir Danvers Osborn, Governor of New York, in 1753.
His brother, John Pownall, was one of the secretaries to the Board of
Trade; and Thomas Pownall had made himself well acquainted with
American affairs. He returned to England in February, 1756, but
came back to America again with the Earl of Loudoun, who landed
at New York on the 23d of July following. In the next year, i757
he succeeded General Shirley as governor of Massachusetts. At later
periods he was lieutenant-governor of New Jersey, and governor of
South Carolina, though it would seem that he remained but a short
time in either of these two last stations. He was a member of Parlia-
ment from 1768 to 1780, and opposed with much boldness and ability
the ministerial measures against the colonies. He wrote and pub-
lished various tracts relating to America, the most valuable of which
is his treatise entitled, Administration of the Colonies, which passed
through several editions. He died in 1805, at the advanced age of
eighty- three years. — Sparks.

H2 The Works of [1756

procure us peace, as the most unfortunate step we
ever took; for we tied up the hands of our people,
till we heard the result of that application. The
affair was drawn out to great length of time, and in
the mean while our frontier people were continually
butchered, and at last either dispersed or dispirited.
In short, I do not believe we shall ever have a firm
peace with the Indians till we have well drubbed
them.

Our frontiers are greatly distressed, as you will
see by the enclosed letters. The people are also dis-
tressed by the enlisting of their servants; but, if
Lord Loudoun would order the recruits, now near
five hundred, to march up and take post on the
frontiers, in the forts there, where they would find
good barracks, and would be of great use to the
inhabitants, it would be a most acceptable thing to
the whole province. In this Mr. Norris joins with
me, as well as in compliments to his Lordship and
yourself.

The Assembly are met, and in a very good dispo-
sition toward the service; but, the new governor
being hourly expected, nothing can be done till his
arrival. He is, we hear, on the road from York. I

am, Sir, &c,

B. Franklin.

1756] Benjamin Franklin H3

CXLV

TO GEORGE WASHINGTON x

Philadelphia, 19 August, 1756.

Sir: — I have your favors of July 23d and August
3d, but that you mention to have wrote by Mr.
Balfour is not come to hand. I forwarded the packet
enclosed in that of July 23d, as directed, and shall
readily take care of any other letters from you, that
pass through my hands. The post, between this
place and Winchester, was established for the ac-
commodation of the army chiefly, by a vote of our
Assembly. They are not willing to continue the
charge, and it must, I believe, be dropped, unless
your Assembly and that of Maryland will contrib-
ute to support it, which, perhaps, is scarce to be
expected.

I am sorry it should be laid down, as I shall my-
self be a loser in the affair of newspapers.2 But the
letters per post by no means defray the expense. If
you can prevail with your Assembly to pay the rider
from Winchester to Carlisle, I will endeavour to
persuade ours to continue paying the rider from
Carlisle hither. My agreement with the house was,
to carry all public despatches gratis, to keep account
of postage received for private letters, and charge

1 At this time commander-in-chief of the Virginia forces raised to
protect the frontiers from the Indians and French. His head-quarters
were at Winchester. Franklin, in his capacity of postmaster-general
for the colonies, had, the year previous, during Braddock's march,
arranged a post between Philadelphia and Winchester, in consequence
of a vote of the Pennsylvania Assembly.

a At this time Franklin printed and published a newspaper in
Philadelphia.

144 The Works of [1756

the expense of riders and offices; and they were to
pay the balance. I am, Sir, with great esteem and
respect, &c,

B. Franklin.

P. S. — We have just received news that the
Delaware Indians, with whom we treated lately at
Easton, have burnt the goods they received as pres-
ents, and resolved to continue the war.1

CXLVI

TO MRS. DEBORAH FRANKLIN

Easton, 13 November, 1756.

My Dear Child : — I wrote to you a few days since
by a special messenger, and enclosed letters for all
our wives and sweethearts; expecting to hear from

1 Though Franklin was actively engaged in these important affairs,
which had an immediate claim upon his exertions, he took a not less
zealous or liberal part in promoting objects of general utility; as is
manifest by the following extract from a letter written to him by Mr.
William Shipley, dated London, September 1, 1756. Mr. Shipley was
secretary to the society, in whose behalf he wrote.

"Sir, I am ordered to acquaint you that the Society for the En-
couragement of Arts, Manufactures, and Commerce have unanimously
elected you a corresponding member; and it gives the Society a sin-
gular pleasure to place upon their list a gentleman whose public spirit
and uncommon abilities are so universally known and so deservedly
esteemed. They are glad to find their plan approved by you, and will
always give great attention to what you shall judge most proper for
their encouragement in America, which they hope from time to time
you will please to let them know. They return you thanks for your
generous present of twenty guineas, which their treasurer has received
by the hands of Mr. Collinson. They earnestly desire your correspon-
dence, information, and advice."

i756l Benjamin Franklin 145

you by his return, and to have the northern news-
papers and English letters per the packet; but he
is just now returned without a scrap for poor us. So
I had a good mind not to write to you by this oppor-
tunity; but I never can be ill natured enough even
when there is the most occasion. The messenger
says he left the letters at your house, and saw you
afterwards at Mr. Duche's, and told you when he
would go, and that he lodged at Honey's, next door
to you, and yet you did not write; so let Goody
Smith give one more just judgment, and say what
should be done to you. I think I won't tell you that
we are well, nor that we expect to return about the
middle of the week, nor will I send you a word of
news; that 's poz.

My duty to mother, love to the children, and to
Miss Betsey and Gracy, &c, &c. I am your loving
husband,

B. Franklin.

P. S. — I have scratched out the loving words, being
writ in haste by mistake, when I forgot I was angry.1

CXLVII

TO EDWARD AND JANE MECOM

Philadelphia, 30 December, 1756.

Dear Brother and Sister: — You will receive this
by the hand of your son Benjamin, on whose safe

1 When the above letter was written, the author was at Easton, in
Pennsylvania, attending a conference with the Indians. The suc-
cesses of the French on the frontiers, and the disasters which followed

VOL. III. — 10.

146 The Works of [1756

return from the West Indies I sincerely congratulate
you.

He has settled accounts with me, and paid the
balance honorably. He has also cleared the old
printing-house to himself, and sent it to Boston,
where he purposes to set up his business, together
with bookselling, which, considering his industry
and frugality, I make no doubt will answer. He has
good credit and some money in England, and I have
helped him by lending him a little more ; so that he

Braddock's defeat, had excited the Indians to hostilities; and mur-
ders and other outrages had been committed by them even in the
heart of the province. To counteract the influence of the French and
bring the Indians to a better temper, it was deemed expedient to hold
an amicable conference with some of their chiefs. Governor Denny-
was present in person, and also William Logan and Richard Peters, on
the part of the Council; and Benjamin Franklin, Joseph Fox, William
Masters, and John Hughes, as delegates from the Assembly. The
conference was opened at Easton on the 8th of November. Teedyus-
cung, a king of the Delawares, residing at Wyoming, was the principal
speaker for the Indians. He explained the reasons of the recent hos-
tilities, but said he was now at peace, and wished to remain so. He
promised to return all the prisoners, and demanded that the Indians
who had been taken should likewise be sent back to him. He also
complained of wrongs which he had suffered.

"I do not want," said he, "to compel any of the Indians to return
or to stay against their will. If they are inclined to stay and live
among the English, I am quite willing they should go back again;
but I want that they should come and see me, that thereby I may
convince their relations and the other nations afar off, that they are
not servants, but free people.

"The kings of England and France," he added, "have settled or
wrought this land so as to coop us up, as if in a pen. This very ground
that is under me" (striking it with his foot) "was my land and in-
heritance, and was taken from me by fraud; when I say this ground,
I mean all the land lying between Tohiccon Creek and Wyoming on
the River Susquehanna. The Proprietaries, who have purchased
their lands from us cheap, have sold them too dear to poor people, and
the Indians have suffered for it. It would have been more prudent
for the Proprietaries to sell the lands cheaper, and to have given it in

1756] Benjamin Franklin 147

may expect a cargo of books, and a quantity of new
letter, in the spring; and I shall from time to time
furnish him with paper. We all join in love to you
and yours. I am your loving brother,

B. Franklin.

charge to the people, who bought from them, to use the Indians with
kindness on that account."

The governor asked him what he meant by fraud.

Teedyuscung replied: "When one man had formerly liberty to
purchase lands, and he took the deeds from the Indians for it, and
then died; after his death, the children forge the deed for the true
one, with the same Indian names to it, and thereby take lands from
the Indians which they never sold : this is fraud. Also, when one king
has land beyond the river, and another king has land on this side, both
bounded by rivers, mountains, and springs, which cannot be moved,
and the Proprietaries, greedy to purchase lands, buy of one king what
belongs to another; this is likewise fraud.

"All the land extending from Tohiccon Creek, over the great moun-
tain to Wyoming, has been taken from me by fraud ; for, when I had
agreed to sell the land to the old Proprietary by the course of the river,
the young Proprietaries came, and got it run by a straight course by
the compass, and by that means took in double the quantity intended
to be sold."

Though these charges were not allowed to be correct, yet the com-
missioners thought it advisable to put an end to the complaints of the
Indians by satisfying their claims, and they offered to Teedyuscung a
suitable compensation. He declined accepting it on the ground that
other tribes besides his own were concerned and must be consulted,
and concluded by saying that in the spring he would bring them to-
gether for another treaty.

The manuscript minutes of this singular conference have been pre-
served in the archives of the American Philosophical Society. The
commissioners, who attended the conference on the part of the Assem-
bly, were not satisfied with the manner in which the minutes were
reported to that body by the governor, and they signed jointly an
explanatory paper, which was probably drawn up by Franklin, and
which is printed in the Votes and Proceedings of the Assembly, under
the date of January 29, 1757. — Sparks.

148 The Works of [1756

CXLVIII

PLAN

FOR SETTLING TWO WESTERN COLONIES IN NORTH
AMERICA, WITH REASONS FOR THE PLAN '

The great country back of the Appalachian Moun-
tains, on both sides of the Ohio, and between that
river and the Lakes, is now well known, both to the
English and French, to be one of the finest in North
America, for the extreme richness and fertility of the
land, the healthy temperature of the air, and mild-
ness of the climate; the plenty of hunting, fishing,
and fowling; the facility of trade with the Indians,
and the vast convenience of inland navigation or
water-carriage by the Lakes and great rivers, many
hundreds of leagues around.

From these natural advantages it must undoubt-

1 Dr. Franklin was early possessed of the belief, that great ad-
vantage would redound to the English colonies on the sea-board by
settlements beyond the Alleghanies under governments distinctly
organized. Such settlements would not only rapidly increase in popu-
lation, thereby strengthening the power of the whole, but would serve
as a barrier to the other colonies against the Indians and French, who,
in time of war, made descents upon the frontiers, kept the people in
alarm, and caused great expense in raising troops and supporting an
army to repel their invasions. He pursued this favorite object for
many years; and after he went to England a company was formed,
under his auspices, who petitioned for a grant to settle a colony west
of the Allegany Mountains. Many obstacles were encountered, but
the application was at last successful. The scheme was prevented
from being carried into effect by the troubles immediately preceding
the revolution.

The following paper was probably written shortly after the Albany
Convention, in 1754, at the request of Governor Pownall, who had a
project for settling what he called "barrier colonies." He presented

1756] Benjamin Franklin 149

edly (perhaps in less than another century) become
a populous and powerful dominion x ; and a great
accession of power either to England or France.

The French are now making open encroachments
on those territories, in defiance of our known rights ;
and, if we longer delay to settle that country, and
suffer them to possess it, these inconveniences and
mischiefs will probably follow:

1. Our people, being confined to the country be-
tween the sea and the mountains, cannot much more
increase in number, people increasing in proportion
to their room and means of subsistence.

2. The French will increase much more, by that

a memorial to the Duke of Cumberland on this subject in the year
1756, in which he says:

"If the English would advance one step further, or cover them-
selves where they are, it must be at once, by one large step over the
mountains, with a numerous and military colony. Where such
should be settled, I do not take upon me to say; at present I shall
only point out the measure and the nature of it, by inserting two
schemes, one of Dr. Franklin's, the other of your memorialist; and if
I might indulge myself with scheming, I should imagine that two
such were sufficient, and only requisite and proper; one at the back of
Virginia, filling up the vacant space between the Five Nations and
southern confederacy, and connecting into one system our barrier;
the other somewhere in the Cohass on Connecticut River, or wherever
best adapted to cover the New England colonies. These, with the
little settlements mentioned above in the Indian countries, complete
my idea of this branch." — Administration of the Colonies, 4th ed.,
Append., p. 48.

When this memorial, with Franklin's plan, was presented, the
whole country was too much involved in the war with the French and
Indians, to allow any scheme of this sort to be matured; the peace
followed, when the occasion for them was less pressing; and the revo-
lution opened the way to other methods of attaining the same object.
— Sparks.

1 This prediction has been verified in a much less time than even
the author anticipated. — Editor.

150 The Works of [1756

acquired room and plenty of subsistence, and be-
come a great people behind us.

3. Many of our debtors and loose English people,
our German servants, and slaves, will probably
desert to them, and increase their numbers and
strength, to the lessening and weakening of ours.

4. They will cut us off from all commerce and
alliance with the western Indians, to the great
prejudice of Britain, by preventing the sale and
consumption of its manufactures.

5. They will both in time of peace and war (as
they have always done against New England) set
the Indians on to harass our frontiers, kill and scalp
our people, and drive in the advanced settlers; and
so, in preventing our obtaining more subsistence by
cultivating of new lands, they discourage our mar-
riages, and keep our people from increasing; thus
(if the expression may be allowed) killing thousands
of our children before they are born.

If two strong colonies of English were settled be-
tween the Ohio and Lake Erie, in the places here-
after to be mentioned, these advantages might be
expected :

1 . They would be a great security to the frontiers
of our other colonies, by preventing the incursions
of the French and French Indians of Canada, on the
back parts of Pennsylvania, Maryland, Virginia, and
the Carolinas; and the frontiers of such new colo-
nies would be much more easily defended, than those
of the colonies last mentioned now can be, as will
appear hereafter.

2. The dreaded junction of the French settle-

1756] Benjamin Franklin 151

ments in Canada with those of Louisiana would be
prevented.

3. In case of a war, it would be easy, from those
new colonies, to annoy Louisiana, by going down the
Ohio and Mississippi; and the southern part of
Canada, by sailing over the Lakes, and thereby
confine the French within narrow limits.

4. We could secure the friendship and trade of
the Miamis or Twigtwees (a numerous people con-
sisting of many tribes, inhabiting the country be-
tween the west end of Lake Erie, and the south end
of Lake Huron, and the Ohio), who are at present
dissatisfied with the French and fond of the English,
and would gladly encourage and protect an infant
English settlement in or near their country, as some
of their chiefs have declared to the writer of this
memoir. Further, by means of the Lakes, the Ohio,
and the Mississippi, our trade might be extended
through a vast country, among many numerous and
distant nations, greatly to the benefit of Britain.

5. The settlement of all the intermediate lands,
between the present frontiers of our colonies on one
side, and the Lakes and Mississippi on the other,
would be facilitated and speedily executed, to the
great increase of Englishmen, English trade, and
English power.

The grants to most of the colonies are of long,
narrow slips of land, extending west from the Atlan-
tic to the South Sea. They are much too long for
their breadth ; the extremes at too great a distance ;
and therefore unfit to be continued under their
present dimensions.

152 The Works of [1756

Several of the old colonies may conveniently be
limited westward by the Allegany or Appalachian
mountains, and new colonies formed west of those
mountains.

A single old colony does not seem strong enough
to extend itself otherwise than inch by inch. It
cannot venture a settlement far distant from the
main body, being unable to support it; but if the
colonies were united under one governor-general and
grand council, agreeably to the Albany plan, they
might easily, by their joint force, establish one or
more new colonies, whenever they should judge it
necessary or advantageous to the interest of the
whole.

But if such union should not take place, it is pro-
posed that two charters be granted, each for some
considerable part of the lands west of Pennsylvania
and the Virginia mountains, to a number of the no-
bility and gentry of Britain; with such Americans
as shall join them in contributing to the settlement
of those lands, either by paying a proportion of the
expense of making such settlements, or by actually
going thither in person, and settling themselves and
families.

That by such charters it be granted that every

actual settler be entitled to a tract of acres for

himself, and acres for every poll in the family

he carries with him; and that every contributor of

guineas be entitled to a quantity of acres, equal

to the share of a single settler, for every such sum of
guineas contributed and paid to the colony treasurer;
a contributor for shares to have an additional

1756] Benjamin Franklin 153

share gratis; that settlers may likewise be contribu-
tors, and have right of land in both capacities.

That as many and as great privileges and powers
of government be granted to the contributors and
settlers, as his Majesty in his wisdom shall think
most fit for their benefit and encouragement, consis-
tent with the general good of the British empire ; for
extraordinary privileges and liberties, with lands on
easy terms, are strong inducements to people to
hazard their persons and fortunes in settling new
countries. And such powers of government as
(though suitable to their circumstances, and fit to be
trusted with an infant colony) might be judged unfit
v/hen it becomes populous and powerful, these might
be granted for a term only; as the choice of their
own governor for ninety-nine years; the support of
government in the colonies of Connecticut and Rhode
Island (which now enjoy that and other like privi-
leges) being much less expensive than in the colonies
under the immediate government of the crown, and
the constitution more inviting.

That the first contributors to the amount of

guineas be empowered to choose a treasurer to re-
ceive the contribution.

That no contributions be paid till the sum of

thousand guineas be subscribed.

That the money thus raised be applied to the pur-
chase of the lands from the Six Nations and other
Indians, and of provisions, stores, arms, ammunition,
carriages, &c, for the settlers, who, after having
entered their names with the treasurer, or person by
him appointed to receive and enter them, are, upon

154 The Works of [1756

public notice given for that purpose, to rendezvous
at a place to be appointed, and march in a body to
the place destined for their settlement, under the
charge of the government to be established over
them. Such rendezvous and march, however, not
to be directed till the number of names of settlers
entered, capable of bearing arms, amount at least
to thousand.

It is apprehended that a great sum of money might
be raised in America on such a scheme as this; for
there are many who would be glad of any opportu-
nity, by advancing a small sum at present, to secure
land for their children, which might in a few years
become very valuable; and a great number, it is
thought, of actual settlers might likewise be engaged
(some from each of our present colonies), sufficient
to carry it into full execution by their strength and
numbers ; provided only, that the crown would be at
the expense of removing the little forts the French
have erected in their encroachments on his Majesty's
territories, and supporting a strong one near the Falls
of Niagara, with a few small armed vessels, or half-
galleys to cruise on the Lakes.

For the security of this colony in its infancy, a
small fort might be erected and for some time main-
tained at Buffalo Creek on the Ohio, above the set-
tlement; and another at the mouth of the Tioga, on
the south side of Lake Erie, where a port should be
formed and a town erected for the trade of the
Lakes. The colonists for this settlement might march
by land through Pennsylvania.

The river Scioto, which runs into the Ohio about

1756] Benjamin Franklin 155

two hundred miles below Logstown, is supposed the
fittest seat for the other colony; there being for forty
miles on each side of it, and quite up to its heads, a
body of all rich land ; the finest spot of its bigness in
all North America, and has the particular advantage
of sea-coal in plenty (even above ground in two
places) for fuel, when the woods shall be destroyed.
This colony would have the trade of the Miamis or
Twigtwees; and should, at first, have a small fort
near Hochockin, at the head of the river, and an-
other near the mouth of Wabash. Sandusky, a
French fort near the Lake Erie, should also be taken;
and all the little French forts south and west of the
Lakes, quite to the Mississippi, be removed, or taken
and garrisoned by the English. The colonists for
this settlement might assemble near the heads of the
rivers in Virginia, and march over land to the naviga-
ble branches of the Kenhawa, where they might em-
bark with all their baggage and provisions, and fall
into the Ohio, not far above the mouth of the Scioto.
Or they might rendezvous at Will's Creek, and go
down the Monongahela to the Ohio.

The fort and armed vessels at the strait of Niag-
ara would be a vast security to the frontiers of these
new colonies against any attempts of the French from
Canada. The fort at the mouth of the Wabash
would guard that river, the Ohio, and the Cutava
River, in case of any attempt from the French of the
Mississippi. Every fort should have a small settle-
ment round it, as the fort would protect the settlers,
and the settlers defend the fort and supply it with
provisions.

156 The Works of [1756

The difficulty of settling the first English colonies
in America, at so great a distance from England,
must have been vastly greater than the settling these
proposed new colonies; for it would be the interest
and advantage of all the present colonies to support
these new ones; as they would cover their frontiers,
and prevent the growth of the French power behind
or near their present settlements ; and the new coun-
try is nearly at equal distance from all the old colo-
nies, and could easily be assisted from all of them.

And as there are already in all the old colonies
many thousands of families that are ready to swarm,
wanting more land, the richness and natural advan-
tage of the Ohio country would draw most of them
thither, were there but a tolerable prospect of a safe
settlement. So that the new colonies would soon be
full of people ; and, from the advantage of their situa-
tion, become much more terrible to the French set-
tlements than those are now to us. The gaining of
the back Indian trade from the French, by the navi-
gation of the Lakes, &c, would of itself greatly
weaken our enemies, it being now their principal sup-
port. It seems highly probable, that in time they
must be subjected to the British crown, or driven out
of the country.

Such settlements may better be made now, than
fifty years hence; because it is easier to settle our-
selves, and thereby prevent the French settling there,
as they seem now to intend, than to remove them
when strongly settled.

If these settlements are postponed, then more forts
and stronger, and more numerous and expensive gar-

i757] Benjamin Franklin i57

risons, must be established, to secure the country,
prevent their settling, and secure our present fron-
tiers; the charge of which may probably exceed the
charge of the proposed settlements, and the advant-
age nothing near so great.

The fort at Oswego should likewise be strength-
ened, and some armed half -galleys, or other small
vessels, kept there to cruise on Lake Ontario, as
proposed by Mr. Pownall in his paper laid before
the commissioners at the Albany treaty.

If a fort was also built at Tirondequat on Lake
Ontario, and a settlement made there near the lake
side, where the lands are said to be good, much bet-
ter than at Oswego, the people of such settlements
would help to defend both forts on any emergency.

CXLIX

TO ROBERT CHARLES.1

Philadelphia, i February, 1757.

Sir: — By this ship you will receive a box contain-
ing sundry copies of our last years' Votes, to which
are added, as you advised, the accounts of the ex-
penditure of the fifty-five thousand pounds, and the
subsequent thirty thousand. Also the papers relating
to the employing of foreign officers. There is like-
wise in the box an authenticated copy of our late bill
for granting one hundred thousand to the King's
use, and of the vote appointing yourself and Mr.

1 Many years agent in England for the Assembly of Pennsylvania.

158 The Works of [1757

Partridge agents, under the great seal, with all the
late messages. You will see in the Votes el copy of
the Proprietary Instructions, in which a money bill is
made for us by the Proprietary, sitting in his closet
at one thousand leagues' distance.

The governor laid before us an estimate of the
necessary expense for defraying the province one
year, amounting to one hundred and five thousand
pounds. We knew our inability to bear the raising
of so great a sum in so short a time. We de-
ducted the least necessary articles, and reduced it to
one hundred thousand pounds, which we granted, and
sent up the bill. Not that we thought this province
capable of paying such a tax yearly, or any thing
near it, but believing it necessary to exert ourselves
at this time in an extraordinary manner, to save the
country from total ruin by the enemy. The governor
to use his own polite word, rejects it. Your Eng-
lish kings, I think, are complaisant enough to say
they will advise upon it. We have no remedy here,
but must obey the instructions, by which we are so
confined, as to the time of rating the property to be
taxed, the valuation of that property, and the sum
per pound to be taxed on the valuation, that it is
demonstrably impossible by such a law to raise one
quarter of the money absolutely necessary to defend
us. Three fourths of the troops must be disbanded,
and so the country be exposed to the mercy of our
enemies, rather than the least tittle of a Proprietary
instruction should be deviated from !

I forbear to enlarge, because the House have
unanimously desired your friend Mr. Norris, and my-

1757] Benjamin Franklin 159

self, to go home immediately, to assist their agents in
getting these matters settled. He has not yet de-
termined; but if he goes, you will by him be fully
informed of every thing, and my going will not, in
my opinion, be necessary. If he declines it, I may
possibly soon have the pleasure of seeing you. I
am with great respect, Sir, &c, B. Franklin.

CL

REPORT

OP THE COMMITTEE OF AGGRIEVANCES OF THE ASSEM-
BLY OF PENNSYLVANIA

Dated February 22D, 1757. l

In obedience to the order of the House, we have
drawn up the heads of the most important aggriev-
ances that occur to us, which the people of this pro-
vince with great difficulty labor under; the many
infractions of the constitution (in manifest violation
of the royal grant, the proprietary charter, the laws
of this province, and of the laws, usages, and customs

1 The English colonial governments were of three sorts. First,
Provincial governments; where the constitution originally depends on
the King's commission and instructions, given to his governors; and
the Assemblies, held under that authority, have their share in m'aking
local ordinances not repugnant to English law. Next, Proprietary
governments; where a district of country is given by the crown to
individuals, attended with certain legislative powers in the nature of
a fief; with a provision for the sovereignty at home, and also for the
fulfilment of the terms and end of the grant. Lastly, Charter govern-
ments, where the fundamentals of the government are previously
prescnbed and made known to the settlers, being in no degree left

160 The Works of [1757

of our mother country), and other matters, which we
apprehend call aloud for redress.

They are as follows :

First. By the royal charter (which has ever been,
ought to be, and truly is, the principal and invariable
fundamental of this constitution), King Charles the
Second did give and grant unto William Penn, his
heirs and assigns, the province of Pennsylvania; and
also to him and his heirs, and his or their deputies or
lieutenants, free, full, and absolute power for the good
and happy government thereof, to make and enact
any laws, " according to their best discretion, by and
with the advice, assent, and approbation of the free-
men of the said country, or of their delegates or
deputies " ; for the raising of money, or any other end
appertaining to the public state, peace, or safety of the
said country. By the words of this grant, it is evi-
dent that full powers are granted to the deputies and
lieutenants of William Penn and his heirs, to concur
with the people in framing laws for their protection
and the safety of the province, according to their best

subject to a governor's commission or proprietor's will. (See Black-
stone, Vol. I. Introd. § 4.) Good faith, however, to mankind, seemed
to require that the constitutions, once begun under the provincial or
proprietary governments, should remain unaltered (except for im-
provement) to the respective settlers; equally as in charter govern-
ments.

By the last paragraph of the following Report, it seems that the
Assembly established in Pennsylvania intended to send commissioners
to England to solicit redress of various grievances, particularly re-
specting their Proprietors' conduct; and that, the business being
referred to a committee of the Assembly, the following Report was
meant to convey the opinion of that committee concerning the in-
structions necessary to be given by the Assembly to the commissioners.
— B. V.

i7S7] Benjamin Franklin 161

discretion ; independent of any instructions or direc-
tions they should receive from their principals. And
it is equally obvious to your committee, that the peo-
ple of this province and their representatives were
interested in this royal grant ; and by virtue thereof
have an original right of legislation inherent in them,
which neither the proprietors nor any other person
whatsoever can divest them of, restrain or abridge,
without manifestly violating and destroying the let-
ter, spirit, and design of this grant.

Nevertheless we unfortunately find, that the pro-
prietaries of this province, regardless of this sacred
fundamental of all our rights and liberties, have so
abridged and restricted their late and present gov-
ernor's discretion in matters of legislation, by their
illegal, impracticable, and unconstitutional instruc-
tions and prohibitions, that no bill for granting aids
and supplies to our most gracious Sovereign (be it
ever so reasonable, expedient, and necessary for the
defence of his Majesty's colony, and safety of his peo-
ple), unless it be agreeable thereto, can meet with its
approbation ; by means whereof the many consider-
able sums of money, which have been offered for those
purposes by the Assemblies of this province (ever
anxious to maintain his honor and rights), have been
rejected ; to the great encouragement of his Majesty's
enemies, and the imminent danger of the loss of this
his colony.

Secondly. The representatives of the people in Gen-
eral Assembly met, by virtue of the said royal grant,
and the charter and privileges granted by the said
William Penn, and a law of this province, have right

VOL. III. — II.

1 62 The Works of [1757

to, and ought to enjoy, all the powers and privileges
of an Assembly, according to the rights of the free-
born subjects of England, and as is usual in any of the
plantations of America. It is an indubitable and now
an uncontested right of the Commons of England to
grant aids and supplies to his Majesty in any manner
they think most easy to themselves and the people;
and they are the sole judges of the measure, manner,
and time of granting and raising the same.

Nevertheless the proprietaries of this province, in
contempt of the said royal grant, proprietary char-
ter, and law of their colony; designing to subvert
the fundamentals of this constitution, to deprive the
Assembly and people of their grants and privileges,
and to assume an arbitrary and tyrannical power over
the liberties and properties of his Majesty's liege sub-
jects; have so restrained their governors by the des-
potic instructions (which are not to be varied from,
and are particularly directory in the framing and
passing of money bills and supplies to his Majesty, as
to the mode, measure, and time), that it is impossible
for the Assembly, should they loose all sense of their
most essential rights, and comply with those instruc-
tions, to grant sufficient aids for the defence of this
his Majesty's province from the common enemy.

Thirdly. In pursuance of sundry acts of General
Assembly, approved of by the crown, and a natural
right inherent in every man antecedent to all laws,
the Assemblies of this province have had the power
of disposing of the public moneys, that have been
raised for the encouragement of trade and support of
government by the interest money arising by the

1757] Benjamin Franklin 163

loans of the bills of credit and the excise. No part
of these moneys was ever paid by the proprietaries,
or ever raised on their estates; and therefore they
can have no pretence of right to a voice in the dispo-
sition of them. They have even been applied with
prudent frugality to the honor and advantage of the
public and the King's immediate service, to the
general approbation of the people; the credit of
the government has been preserved, and the debts
of the public punctually discharged. In short, no
inconveniences, but great and many advantages,
have accrued from the Assembly's prudent care and
management of these funds.

Yet the proprietaries resolved to deprive the As-
semblies of the power and means of supporting an
agent in England, and of prosecuting their complaints
and remonstrating their aggrievances, when injured
and oppressed, to his Majesty and his Parliament;
and, to rob them of this natural right (which has
been so often approved of by their gracious Sov-
ereign), have, by their said instructions, prohibited
their governor from giving his assent to any laws
emitting or reemitting any paper currency or bills of
credit, or for raising money by excise or any other
method ; unless the governor or commander-in-chief
for the time being, by clauses to be inserted therein,
have a negative in the disposition of the moneys aris-
ing thereby ; let the languishing circumstances of our
trade be ever so great, and a further or greater
medium be ever so necessary for its support.

Fourthly. By the laws and statues of England,
the chief rents, honors, and castles of the crown are

1 64 The Works of [1757

taxed, and pay their proportion to the supplies that
are granted to the King for the defence of the realm
and support of government. His Majesty, the no-
bility of the realm, and all the British subjects do
now actually contribute their proportion towards the
defence of America in general, and this province in
particular; and it is in a more especial manner the
duty of the proprietaries to pay their proportion of
a tax for the immediate preservation of their own
estates in this province. To exempt, therefore, any
part of their estates from their reasonable part of this
necessary burthen, is as unjust as it is illegal, and as
new as it is arbitrary.

Yet the proprietaries, notwithstanding the general
danger to which the nation and its colonies are ex-
posed, and great distress of this province in particu-
lar, by their said instructions have prohibited their
governors from passing laws for the raising supplies
for its defence ; unless all their located, unimproved,
and unoccupied lands, quit-rents, fines, and purchase
moneys on interest (the much greater part of their
enormous estates in this colony) are expressly ex-
empted from paying any part of the tax.

Fifthly. By virtue of the said royal charter, the
proprietaries are invested with a power of doing all
things, " which unto a complete establishment of jus-
tice, unto courts and tribunals, forms of judicature,
and manner of proceedings, do belong." It was cer-
tainly the import and design of this grant, that the
courts of judicature should be formed, and the judges
and officers thereof hold their commissions, in a man-
ner not repugnant, but agreeable, to the laws and

i7S7] Benjamin Franklin 165

customs of England ; that thereby they might remain
free from the influence of persons in power, the
rights of the people might be preserved, and their
properties effectually secured. That the grantee,
William Penn (understanding the said grant in this
light), did, by his original frame of government,
covenant and grant with the people, that the judges
and other officers should hold their commissions
during their good behaviour, and no longer.

Notwithstanding which, the governors of this pro-
vince have, for many years past, granted all the com-
missions to the judges of the King's Bench or
supreme court of this province, and to the judges of
the court of Common Pleas of the several counties,
to be held during their will and pleasure; by means
whereof the said judges being subject to the influence
and direction of the proprietaries and their govern-
ors, their favorites and creatures, the laws may not
be duly administered or executed, but often wrested
from their true sense to serve particular purposes;
the foundation of justice may be liable to be de-
stroyed; and the lives, laws, liberties, privileges,
and properties of the people thereby rendered pre-
carious and altogether insecure ; to the great disgrace
of our laws, and the inconceivable injury of his
Majesty's subjects.

Your committee further beg leave to add, that, be-
sides these aggrievances, there are other hardships
the people of this province have experienced, that
call for redress. The enlistment of servants without
the least satisfaction being made to the masters, has
not only prevented the cultivation of our lands, and

1 66 The Works of [1757

diminished the trade and commerce of the province,
but is a burthen extremely unequal and oppressive to
individuals. And should the practice continue, the
consequence must prove very discouraging to the
further settlement of this colony, and prejudicial to
his Majesty's future service. Justice, therefore, de-
mands that satisfaction should be made to the mas-
ters of such enlisted servants, and that the right of
masters to their servants be confirmed and settled.
But as those servants have been enlisted into his
Majesty's service for the general defence of America,
and not of this province only, but all the colonies,
and the nation in general, have and will receive equal
benefit from their service, this satisfaction should be
made at the expense of the nation, and not of the
province only.

That the people now labor under a burthen of taxes
almost insupportable by so young a colony, for the
defence of its long-extended frontier, of about two
hundred miles from New Jersey to Maryland ; without
either of these colonies, or the three lower counties
on Deleware, contributing their proportion thereto;
though their frontiers are in a great measure covered
and protected by our forts. And should the war
continue, and with it this unequal burthen, many of
his Majesty's subjects in this province will be reduced
to want; and the province, if not lost to the enemy,
involved in debt and sunk under its load.

That, notwithstanding this weight of taxes, the
Assemblies of this province have given to the general
service of the nation five thousand pounds to purchase
provisions for the troops under General Braddock;

1757] Benjamin Franklin 167

£2, 985. 05. 1 id for clearing a road by his orders;
^10,514. 10s. id. to General Shirley, for the purchas-
ing provisions for the New England forces; and ex-
pended the sum of ^2,385. 05. 2\d. in supporting the
inhabitants of Nova Scotia; which likewise we con-
ceive ought to be a national expense.

And that his Majesty's subjects, the merchants and
insurers in England, as well as the merchants here
and elsewhere, did during the last and will during the
present war greatly suffer in their property, trade,
and commerce, by the enemy's privateers on this coast,
and at our capes, unless some method be fallen on to
prevent it.

Wherefore your committee are of opinion, that the
commissioners, intended to be sent to England to
solicit a memorial and redress of the many infractions
and violations of the constitution, should also have it
in charge, and be instructed, to represent to our most
gracious Sovereign and his Parliaments the several
unequal burthens and hardships before mentioned;
and endeavour to procure satisfaction to the masters
of such servants as have been enlisted, and the right
of masters to their servants established and con-
firmed; and obtain a repayment of the said several
sums of money, some assistance towards defending
our extensive frontier, and a vessel of war to protect
the trade and commerce of this province.

Submitted to the correction of the House.

168 The Works of [1757

CLI

TO MRS. JANE MECOM

Philadelphia, 21 February, 1757.

Dear Sister: — I am glad to hear your son has got
well home. I like your conclusion not to take a
house for him till summer, and if he stays till his new
letters arrive, perhaps it would not be amiss; for a
good deal depends on the first impression a man
makes. As he will keep a bookseller's shop with
his printing-house, I don't know but it might be
worth his while to set up at Cambridge.

I enclose you some whisk seed ; it is a kind of corn,
good for creatures; it must be planted in hills, like
Indian corn. The tops make the best thatch in the
world ; and of the same are made the whisks you use
for velvet. Pray try if it will grow with you. I
brought it from Virginia. Give some to Mr. Cooper,
some to Mr. Bowdoin. Love to cousin Sally, and her
spouse. I wish them and you much joy. Love to
brother, &c, B. Franklin.

CLII

TO WILLIAM PARSONS

Philadelphia, 22 February, 1757.

Dear Friend: — I thank you for the intelligence
from Fort Allen relating to the Indians. The com-
missioners have not yet settled your account, but I
will press them to do it immediately. I have not
heard from Mr. Stephenson, but will write to him
once more.

1757] Benjamin Franklin 169

And now, my dear old friend, I am to take leave
of you, being ordered home to England by the As-
sembly, to obtain some final settlement of the points
that have occasioned so many unhappy disputes. I
assure you I go with the sincerest desire of procuring
peace, and therein I know I shall have your prayers
for my success. God bless you, and grant that at my
return I may find you well and happy. I am, as ever,
dear friend, yours affectionately,

B. Franklin.1

CLIII

TO MISS CATHERINE RAY

Philadelphia, 3 March, 1757.

Dear Katy: — Being about to leave America for
some time, I could not go without taking leave of my

1 On the 29th of January, the Assembly resolved that Isaac Norris,
the Speaker of the House, and Benjamin Franklin, should be requested
to go to England, "as commissioners to solicit the removal of griev-
ances occasioned by proprietary instructions, &c." When they were
called upon to declare to the Assembly, whether they would comply
with the request, Mr. Norris declined, and gave as a reason the state
of his health. Mr. Franklin said "that he esteemed the nomination
by the House to that service as a high honor, but that he thought,
if the Speaker could be prevailed on to undertake it, his long ex-
perience in public affairs would render the addition of another un-
necessary; that he held himself, however, in the disposition of the
House, and was ready to go whenever they should think fit to require
his service." It was then resolved, "that Benjamin Franklin be, and
he is hereby, appointed Agent of this province, to solicit and transact
the affairs thereof in Great Britain." See Votes and Proceedings,
February 3d. His son was at this time clerk of the House, and it was
resolved ' ' that William Franklin have leave to resign his office of
clerk of this House, that he may accompany his father, appointed one
of the commissioners to negotiate our affairs in England, and that
another person be chosen to serve as clerk during the absence of the
said Franklin." — February 18th.

jyo The Works of [1757

dear friend. I received your favor of the 8th of No-
vember, and am ashamed, that I have suffered it to re-
main so long unanswered, especially as now, through
shortness of time, I cannot chat with you in any man-
ner agreeably.

I can only wish you well and happy, which I do
most cordially. Present my best compliments to
your good mamma, brother and sister Ward, and all
your other sisters, the agreeable Misses Ward, Dr.
Babcock and family, the charitable Misses Stanton,
and, in short, to all that love me. I should have said
all that love you, but that would be giving you too
much trouble. Adieu, dear good girl, and believe me
ever your affectionate friend, B. Franklin.

CLIV

TO MR. DUNLAP

Philadelphia, 4 April, 1757.

I now appoint you postmaster of Philadelphia,
during our absence, as it will be some present em-
ployment for you till our return ; when I hope to put
you in a better way, if I find you diligent, careful,
and faithful.

I would not have the office remov'd on any account
from my house during my absence, without my leave
first obtain 'd.

And as Mrs. Franklin has had a great deal of ex-
perience in the management of the post-office, I de-
pend on your paying considerable attention to her
advice in that matter.

1757] Benjamin Franklin 171

As I leave but little money with Mrs. Franklin for

the support of the family, and have (torn ) of

the post-office for the (torn ) absence, I ex-
pect and (torn ) account with her for, and

pay her, every Monday morning, the postage of the
preceding week, taking her receipts for the same,
and retaining only your commissions of ten per cent.
You should have a little book for such receipts.

Wishing you health and happiness, I am, your af-
fectionate uncle, B. Franklin.

CLV

TO MRS. DEBORAH FRANKLIN

Trenton,1 5 April, 1757.

My Dear Child : — We found the roads much bet-
ter than we expected, and got here well before night.
My kind friend Mr. Griffith's carriage appearing too
weak in the wheels, I have accepted Mr. Masters 's
obliging offer, and take his carriage forward from this
place, and he will return to town in Mr. Griffith's.
About a dozen of our friends accompanied us quite
hither, to see us out of the province, and we spent a
very agreeable evening together. I leave home, and
undertake this long voyage, the more cheerfully, as I
can rely on your prudence in the management of my
affairs and education of our dear child ; and yet I can-
not forbear once more recommending her to you with
a father's tenderest concern. My love to all. If the
roads do not prove worse, we may be at Woodbridge
to-night. I believe I did not see Mr. Dunlap when I

1 On his way to New York, where he was to take passage for Eng-
land.

172 The Works of [1757

came away, so as to take leave of him; my love to
him. Billy presents his duty and love to all. I am
your affectionate husband, B. Franklin.

CLVI

TO JOHN LINING, AT CHARLESTON, SOUTH CAROLINA

New York, 14 April, 1757.

Sir : — It is a long time since I had the pleasure of a
line from you ; and, indeed, the troubles of our country,
with the hurry of business I have been engaged in on
that account, have made me so bad a correspondent,
that I ought not to expect punctuality in others.

But being about to embark for England, I could
not quit the continent without paying my respects to
you, and, at the same time, taking leave to introduce
to your acquaintance a gentleman of learning and
merit, Colonel Henry Bouquet, who does me the
favor to present you this letter, and with whom I am
sure you will be much pleased.

Professor Simson,of Glasgow, lately communicated
to me some curious experiments of a physician of his
acquaintance, by which it appeared that an extraordi-
nary degree of cold, even to freezing, might be pro-
duced by evaporation. I have not had leisure to
repeat and examine more than the first and easiest of
them, viz. : Wet the ball of a thermometer by a feather
dipped in spirit of wine, which has been kept in the
same room, and has, of course, the same degree of
heat or cold. The mercury sinks presently three or
four degrees, and the quicker if during the evapora-
tion you blow on the ball with the bellows ; a second

i757l Benjamin Franklin 173

wetting and blowing, when the mercury is down,
carries it yet lower. I think I did not get it lower
than five or six degrees from where it naturally stood,
which was, at that time, sixty. But it is said, that a
vessel of water being placed in another somewhat
larger, containing spirit, in such a manner that the
vessel of water is surrounded with the spirit, and
both placed under the receiver of an air-pump, on
exhausting the air, the spirit evaporating, leaves such
a degree of cold as to freeze the water, though the
thermometer, in the open air, stands many degrees
above the freezing point.

I know not how this phenomenon is to be accounted
for; but it gives me occasion to mention some loose
notions relating to heat and cold, which I have for
some time entertained, but not yet reduced into any
form. Allowing common fire, as well as electrical, to
be a fluid capable of permeating other bodies, and
seeking an equilibrium, I imagine some bodies are
better fitted by nature to be conductors of that fluid
than others ; and that, generally, those which are the
best conductors of electrical fluid, are also the best
conductors of this ; and e contra.

Thus a body which is a good conductor of fire
readily receives it into its substance, and conducts it
through the whole to all the parts, as metals and
water do ; and if two bodies, both good conductors,
one heated, the other in its common state, are brought
into contact with each other, the body which has
most fire readily communicates of it to that which
had least, and that which had least readily receives
it, till an equilibrium is produced. Thus, if you take

174 The Works of [1757

a dollar between your fingers with one hand, and a
piece of wood, of the same dimensions, with the
other, and bring both at the same time to the flame
of a candle, you will find yourselves obliged to drop
the dollar before you drop the wood, because it con-
ducts the heat of the candle sooner to your flesh.
Thus, if a silver tea-pot had a handle of the same
metal, it would conduct the heat from the water to
the hand, and become too hot to be used ; we there-
fore give to a metal tea-pot a handle of wood, which
is not so good a conductor as metal. But a china or
stone tea-pot being in some degree of the nature of
glass, which is not a good conductor of heat, may
have a handle of the same stuff. Thus, also, a damp
moist air shall make a man more sensible of cold, or
chill him more, than a dry air that is colder, because
a moist air is fitter to receive and conduct away the
heat of his body. This fluid, entering bodies in great
quantity, first expands them by separating their parts
a little ; afterwards, by farther separating their parts,
it renders solids fluid, and at length dissipates
their parts in air. Take this fluid from melted lead,
or from water, the parts cohere again; and this is
sooner done by the means of good conductors.
Thus, if you take, as I have done,
a square bar of lead, four inches
long, and one inch thick, together
with three pieces of wood planed to
the same dimensions, and lay them
as in the margin, on a smooth
board, fixed so as not to be easily
separated or moved, and pour into the cavity they

1757] Benjamin Franklin 175

form as much melted lead as will fill it, you will see
the melted lead chill, and become firm, on the side
next the leaden bar, some time before it chills on the
other three sides in contact with the wooden bars,
though, before the lead was poured in, they might all
be suppose to have the same degree of heat or cold-
ness, as they had been exposed in the same room to
the same air. You will likewise observe that the
leaden bar, as it had cooled the melted lead more than
the wooden bars have done, so it is itself more heated
by the melted lead. There is a certain quantity of
this fluid, called fire, in every human body, which
fluid, being in due proportion, keeps the parts of the
flesh and blood at such a just distance from each
other, as that the flesh and nerves are supple and the
blood fit for circulation. If part of this due propor-
tion of fire be conducted away, by means of a con-
tact with other bodies, as air, water, or metals,
the parts of our skin and flesh that come into such
contact first draw more together than is agreea-
ble, and give that sensation which we call cold; and
if too much be conveyed away, the body stiffens, the
blood ceases to flow, and death ensues. On the other
hand, if too much of this fluid be communicated to
the flesh, the parts are separated too far, and pain
ensues, as when they are separated by a pin or lancet.
The sensation that the separation by fire occasions,
we call heat, or burning. My desk on which I now
write and the lock of my desk are both exposed to
the same temperature of the air, and have therefore
the same degree of heat or cold; yet if I lay my
hand successively on the wood and on the metal,

176 The Works of [1757

the latter feels much the coldest, not that it is really
so, but being a better conductor, it more readily
than the wood takes away and draws into itself the
fire that was in my skin. Accordingly, if I lay one
hand, part on the lock and part on the wood, and
after it has lain so some time, I feel both parts
with my other hand, I find the part that has been in
contact with the lock very sensibly colder to the
touch than the part that lay on the wood. How
a living animal obtains its quantity of this fluid,
called fire, is a curious question. I have shown that
some bodies (as metals) have a power of attract-
ing it stronger than others; and I have some times
suspected that a living body had some power of at-
tracting out of the air, or other bodies, the heat it
wanted. Thus metals hammered or repeatedly bent
grow hot in the bent or hammered part. But when
I consider that air in contact with the body cools
it; that the surrounding air is rather heated by its
contact with the body; that every breath of cooler
air drawn in carries off part of the body's heat when
it passes out again ; that therefore there must be in
the body a fund for producing it, or otherwise the
body would soon grow cold: I have been rather in-
clined to think that the fluid fire, as well as the fluid
air, is attracted by plants in their growth, and be-
comes consolidated with the other materials of which
they are formed, and makes a great part of their
substance; that, when they come to be digested, and
to suffer in the vessels a kind of fermentation, part
of the fire, as well as part of the air, recovers its fluid,
active state again, and diffuses itself in the body, di-

1757] Benjamin Franklin 177

gesting and separating it; that the fire so reproduced
by digestion and separation, continually leaving the
body, its place is supplied by fresh quantities, arising
from the continual separation ; that whatever quick-
ens the motion of the fluids in an animal quickens
the separation, and reproduces more of the fire, as
exercise ; that all the fire emitted by wood and other
combustibles when burning existed in them before
in a solid state, being only discovered when separat-
ing; that some fossils, as sulphur, sea-coal, &c, con-
tain a great deal of solid fire; and that, in short,
what escapes and is dissipated in the burning of
bodies, besides water and earth, is generally the air
and fire that before made parts of the solid. Thus
I imagine that animal heat arises by or from a kind
of fermentation in the juices of the body, in the same
manner as heat arises in the liquors preparing for
distillation, wherein there is a separation of the spirit-
uous from the watery and earthy parts. And it is re-
markable that the liquor in a distiller's vat, when in
its highest and best state of fermentation, as I have
been informed, has the same degree of heat with the
human body — that is, about 94 or 96.

Thus, as by a constant supply of fuel in a chim-
ney you keep a warm room, so by a constant supply
of food in the stomach, you keep a warm body ; only,
where little exercise is used, the heat may possibly
be conducted away too fast, in which case such
materials are to be used for clothing and bedding,
against the effects of an immediate contact of the air,
as are in themselves bad conductors of heat, and con-
sequently prevent its being communicated through

VOL. III. — 12.

178 The Works of [1757

their substance to the air. Hence what is called
warmth in wool, and its preference on that account to
linen, wool not being so good a conductor; and hence
all the natural coverings of animals to keep them
warm are such as retain and confine the natural heat
in the body, by being bad conductors, such as wool,
hair, feathers, and the silk by which the silk- worm in
its tender embryo state is first clothed. Clothing
thus considered does not make a man warm by giving
warmth, but by preventing the too quick dissipation
of the heat produced in his body, and so occasioning
an accumulation.

There is another curious question I will just venture
to touch upon, viz. : Whence arises the sudden extra-
ordinary degree of cold, perceptible on mixing some
chemical liquors, and even on mixing salt and snow,
where the composition appears colder than the coldest
of the ingredients? I have never seen the chemical
mixtures made; but salt and snow I have often
mixed myself, and am fully satisfied that the compo-
sition feels much colder to the touch, and lowers the
mercury in the thermometer more, than either in-
gredient would do separately. I suppose, with others,
that cold is nothing more than the absence of heat or
fire. Now, if the quantity of fire before contained or
diffused in the snow and salt was expelled in the
uniting of the two matters, it must be driven away
either through the air or the vessel containing them.
If it is driven off through the air, it must warm the
air; and a thermometer held over the mixture, with-
out touching it, would discover the heat by the rising of
the mercury, as it must, and always does, in warm air.

1757] Benjamin Franklin 179

This, indeed, I have not tried, but I should guess
it would rather be driven off through the vessel,
especially if the vessel be metal, as being a better
conductor than air; and so one should find the basin
warmer after such mixture. But, on the contrary,
the vessel grows cold, and even water, in which the
vessel is sometimes placed for the experiment, freezes
into hard ice on the basin. Now I know not how to
account for this, otherwise than by supposing that
the composition is a better conductor of fire than the
ingredients separately, and, like the lock compared
with the wood, has a stronger power of attracting
fire, and does accordingly attract it suddenly from
the fingers, or a thermometer put into it, from the
basin that contains it, and from the water in contact
with the outside of the basin ; so that the fingers have
the sensation of extreme cold, by being deprived of
much of their natural fire; the thermometer sinks,
by having part of its fire drawn out of the mercury ;
the basin grows colder to the touch, as, by having its
fire drawn into the mixture, it is become more capa-
ble of drawing and receiving it from the hand; and,
through the basin, the water loses its fire that kept it
fluid, so it becomes ice. One would expect, that
from all this attracted acquisition of fire to the com-
position, it should become warmer; and, in fact, the
snow and salt dissolve at the same time into water,
without freezing. I am, Sir, &c,

B. Franklin.

180 The Works of [1757

CLVII

TO MRS. JANE MECOM

New York, 19 April, 1757.

Dear Sister: — I wrote a few lines to you yester-
day, but omitted to answer yours relating to sister
Dowse. As having their own way is one of the
greatest comforts of life to old people, I think their
friends should endeavour to accommodate them in
that, as well as in any thing else. When they have
long lived in a house, it becomes natural to them;
they are almost as closely connected with it as the
tortoise with his shell ; they die, if you tear them out
of it ; old folks and old trees, if you remove them, it
is ten to one that you kill them ; so let our good old
sister be no more importuned on that head. We
are growing old fast ourselves, and shall expect the
same kind of indulgences ; if we give them, we shall
have a right to receive them in our turn.

And as to her few fine things, I think she is in the
right not to sell them, and for the reason she gives,
that they will fetch but little; when that little is
spent, they would be of no further use to her; but
perhaps the expectation of possessing them at her
death may make that person tender and careful of
her, and helpful to her to the amount of ten times
their value. If so, they are put to the best use they
possibly can be.

I hope you visit sister as often as your affairs will
permit, and afford her what assistance and comfort
you can in her present situation. Old age, infirmi-
ties, and poverty, joined, are afflictions enough. The

i757] Benjamin Franklin 181

neglect and slights of friends and near relations should
never be added. People in her circumstances are
apt to suspect this sometimes without cause; ap-
pearances should therefore be attended to, in our
conduct towards them, as well as realities. I write
by this post to cousin Williams, to continue his care,
which I doubt not he will do.

We expect to sail in about a week, so that I can
hardly hear from you again on this side the water;
but let me have a line from you now and then, while
I am in London. I expect to stay there at least a
twelvemonth. Direct your letters to be left for me
at the Pennsylvania Coffee-house, in Birchin Lane,
London. My love to all, from, dear sister, your
affectionate brother,

B. Franklin.

P. S. — April 25th. We are still here, and perhaps
may be here a week longer. Once more adieu, my
dear sister.

CLVIII

TO MRS. JANE MECOM

Woodbridge, New Jersey, 21 May, 1757.

Dear Sister: — I received your kind letter of the
gth instant, in which you acquainted me with some
of your late troubles. These are troublesome times
to us all ; but perhaps you have had more than you
should. I am glad to hear that Peter is at a place
where he has full employ. A trade is a valuable

1 82 The Works of [1757

thing; but unless a habit of industry be acquired
with it, it turns out of little use; if he gets that in
his new place, it will be a happy exchange, and the
occasion not an unfortunate one. It is very agree-
able to me to hear so good an account of your other
children; in such a number to have no bad ones is
a great happiness.

The horse sold very low indeed. If I wanted one
to-morrow, knowing his goodness, old as he is, I
should freely give more than twice the money for
him; but you did the best you could, and I will
take of Benny no more than he produced.

I don't doubt but Benny will do very well when
he gets to work ; but I fear his things from England
may be so long a coming as to occasion the loss of
the rent. Would it not be better for you to move
into the house? Perhaps not, if he is near being
married. I know nothing of that affair but what
you write me, except that I think Miss Betsey a
very agreeable, sweet-tempered, good girl, who has
had a housewifely education, and will make, to a
good husband, a very good wife. Your sister and I
have a great esteem for her; and if she will be kind
enough to accept of our nephew, we think it will be
his own fault if he is not as happy as the married
state can make him. The family is a respectable
one, but whether there be any fortune I know not;
and as you do not inquire about this particular, I
suppose you think with me, that where every thing
else desirable is to be met with, that is not very
material. If she does not bring a fortune, she will
help to make one. Industry, frugality, and prudent

i7S7] Benjamin Franklin 183

economy in a wife, are to a tradesman, in their
effects, a fortune; and a fortune sufficient for Ben-
jamin, if his expectations are reasonable. We can
only add that if the young lady and her friends are
willing, we give our consent heartily, and our bless-
ing. My love to brother and the children. Your
affectionate brother,

B. Franklin.

P. S. — If Benny will promise to be one of the ten-
derest husbands in the world, I give my consent.
He knows already what I think of Miss Betsey. I
am his loving aunt,

Deborah Franklin.

CLIX

TO MRS. DEBORAH FRANKLIN

New York, Friday, 27 May, 1757.

My Dear Debby: — Mr. Parker being doubtful this
morning whether the rain would permit his set-
ting out to-day, I had prepared no letter to send by
Sally, when he took a siidden resolution to go. Mr.
Colden x could not spare his daughter, as she helps
him in the post-office, he having no clerk. I enclose
only the fourth bills, which you are to put up safe
with my writings. The first set I take with me, the
second goes by Radford, and I now send the third by
Bonnel.

All the packets are to sail together with the fleet,

1 Mr. Alexander Colden, the postmaster in New York.

1 84 The Works of [1757

but when that will be is yet uncertain ; for yesterday
came in three privateers with several prizes, and by
them there is advice that the French fleet, which was
in the West Indies, is come to the northward; and
now it is questioned whether it will be thought pru-
dent for these transports to sail till there is certain
advice that the grand fleet is arrived from England.
This, however, is only town talk.

I send Mr. Kneeland's letter. Pray forward the
paper he writes for, by the first opportunity. I
send a memorandum received from Joseph Croker,
with a note on the back of it. I leave it to yourself
whether to go home directly, or stay a little longer.
If I find we are not likely to sail for some time, I
shall perhaps step down again to Woodbridge, and
try to finish my work. But it may be that your
longer absence from home will be attended with
some inconvenience. I am making up a bundle of
papers to send you. Put them into my room. I
can hear nothing yet of the clothes.

I have been very low-spirited all day. This
tedious state of uncertainty and long waiting have
almost worn out my patience. Except the two or
three weeks at Woodbridge, I know not when I have
spent time so uselessly as since I left Philadelphia.

I left my best spectacles on the table. Please to
send them to me.

Saturday Morning. — Jemmy got here early, and
tells me Mr. Parker and the children got well down.
In my room on the folio shelf between the clock and
our bedchamber, stands a folio, called the Gardiner's
Dictionary, by P. Miller. And on the same side of

1757] Benjamin Franklin 185

the room, on the lowest shelf or lowest but one, near
the middle, and by the side of a little partition, you
will find standing or rather lying on its fore edge a
quarto pamphlet, covered with blue paper, called a
Treatise on Cider-making. Deliver those two books
to Mr. Parker.

Sunday Afternoon. — Yesterday, while I was at my
Lord's,1 with whom I had the honor to dine, word
was brought in that five sail of French men-of-war
were seen off Egg Harbour the day before; and as
some of the French prisoners lately brought in re-
port that such a number of men-of-war sailed with
them from the West Indies to go to the northward,
these vessels might be supposed to be the same, if
the account from Egg Harbour was true. If on
examination it be found true, and the French take
it into their heads to cruise off this port with such a
force, we shall then be shut up here for some time,
for our fleet here is not of force sufficient to venture
out. If this story be not true, yet it is thought by
some we shall hardly sail till there is certain advice
of the English fleet being arrived at Halifax, and
perhaps not till a convoy comes from thence to
guard us. So I am wavering whether I had not best
go down again to Woodbridge and finish my books.

I spent last evening with Mr. Nichol's family, who
all desired their compliments to you and Sally. I
send you one of the French books translated.

Monday Morning. — Our going is yet uncertain. I
believe I shall put every thing on board to-morrow,

1 Lord Loudoun, who had lately arrived as commander-in-chief in
America, being successor to General Shirley.

186 The Works of [1757

and either go down again to Woodbridge or send for

the trunk of books hither to employ myself till we

have sailed. The report of French men-of-war off

the coast is vanished. I am, my dear Debby, your

ever loving husband,

B. Franklin.

CLX

TO ISAAC NORRIS ■

New York, 30 May, 1757.

Sir: — After waiting here about seven weeks for
the sailing of the packet, the time of her sailing is
no more certain now than it was on the day of our
arrival. The packets, as it is now said, are all three
to sail with the fleet; the two first to be dismissed
soon after the fleet is at sea; the third to go with
the fleet to the place of rendezvous, and not to be
discharged till the arrival and junction of the fleet
from England. But this is not certain ; resolutions
change as advices are received, or occurrences arise,
and it is doubtful whether the fleet will sail from
hence till there is certain news of the arrival of that
from England, since there is intelligence that Beau-
fremont's squadron is gone from the West Indies to
the northward.

I have had the honor of several conferences with
my Lord Loudoun on the subject of the servants.3

1 For many years Speaker of the Assembly of Pennsylvania.

2 It was common for emigrants, of the poorer class, to pay for their
passage by selling their time for a certain number of years to the
captain in whose ship they came over. The time, or term of service,

1757] Benjamin Franklin 187

His Lordship objects, first, that it appears by the
list which I laid before him, that many of the ser-
vants were enlisted in General Braddock's and Gen-
eral Shirley's time. With those he has nothing to
do. Secondly, that many were enlisted before the
act of Parliament appointed satisfaction to be made
to the masters ; and as the lawyers all agree that the
right to take them without pay was clearly in the
King before the act, no satisfaction should be made
or expected for these. Thirdly, that the particular
proofs of the loss of each servant, and of his being
enlisted in the King's service, do not appear.
Fourthly, that the affair is now so intricate and per-
plexed, that it would take more time to examine
and settle it than he can possibly spare. Fifthly,
that if his officers had done wrong in not paying for
the servants, as they took them, the fault was our
own; it was owing to some principal people among
ourselves, whom he could name, who had always
assured the officers that the Assembly intended to
pay for the servants, and by that means led them
into the error.

His Lordship made several other observations and
objections, all which I answered and endeavoured to
remove as well as I could; but there is, I believe,

thus pledged, was sold by the captain, after his arrival in port, to
farmers in the country. During the war it had been a practice of the
recruiting officers to enlist these servants into the army, thus depriv-
ing the farmers of their services, and of the value that had been paid
for them. Redress was sought from the government, and Franklin
was instructed to lay the subject before Lord Loudoun, the com-
mander-in-chief of the army. Other particulars respecting emigrant
servants, and the enlistment of them, may be seen in Sparks' edition
of Washington's Writings, vol. ii., pp. 168, 189, 199.

1 88 The Works of [1757

one ax bottom, which it is not in my power to re-
move, and that is the want of money. The ex-
penses of an American war necessarily run very high,
and are complained of by some in England; and his
Lordship is unwilling to discourage the ministry at
home by large charges. He will therefore mix none
of those of his predecessors with his own. He makes
the most frugal agreements, and avoids all pay-
ments that he can avoid with honor. For instance,
there is a balance not very large due to me, on my
account of wagons and forage supplies to General
Braddock. I presented the account to his Lord-
ship, who had it examined and compared with the
vouchers; and on report made to him that it was
right, ordered a warrant to be drawn for the pay-
ment; but before he signed it he sent for me, told
me that as the money became due before his time,
he had rather not mix it in his accounts, if it would
be the same thing to me to receive it in England. He
believed it a fair and just account, and as such would
represent it at home, so that I should meet with no
difficulty in getting it paid there. I agreed to his
Lordship's proposal, and the warrant was laid aside.
I once proposed to his Lordship that if he would
appoint, or advise Governor Denny to appoint, some
persons of credit in Pennsylvania to examine the
claims of the masters, and report to his Lordship at
the end of the campaign, it would, for the present,
make the minds of the sufferers more easy; and he
could then order payment for such part as he should
find right for him to pay, and we might endeavour
to procure satisfaction elsewhere for the rest. His

i7S7] Benjamin Franklin 189

Lordship declined this, saying, that he knew not
whom to appoint, being unacquainted with the peo-
ple ; that he did not care to trouble Governor Denny
with it, of whom he must ask it as a favor; and
besides, auditors, in the plantations, of accounts
against the crown had in many instances been so
partial and corrupt that they had lost all credit. If
he appointed auditors, they must be some of the
officers of the army who understood the affair; and
at present they were engaged in other duties.

I will not trouble you with a detail of all I said to
his Lordship on this affair, though I omitted nothing
material that occurred to me; but I find he is for
keeping the matter in suspense, without either pro-
mising payment or refusing to pay ; perhaps till he re-
ceives directions about it from home. He does
not seem willing, however, that I should make any
application there relating to it, and chooses to
keep the list in his hands till his return from the
campaign.

The list is, indeed, so very imperfect, that I could
not promise myself much in laying it before him.
Of many servants it is not noted by what officers,
or in what company, or even in what regiment they
were enlisted; of others, the time they were bound
for, or had served, or had still to serve, is omitted.
Of others, no notice is taken of the price they cost;
nor is there any distinction of apprentices, though,
perhaps, the account is the best that could be ob-
tained, the time and other circumstances considered.
Upon the whole, as the inquiry, if it is ever made by
my Lord's order, will be by officers of the army, they

190 The Works of [1757

being, in his Lordship's opinion, the fittest persons
and most impartial; as all enlistments before the
commencement of his command will be rejected, and
also all before the act of Parliament; as very clear
proofs of every circumstance — when the servant was
enlisted, by what officer, of what regiment, and the
like — will be insisted on, and the recruiting officers
at the time took such effectual care to prevent the
master's knowing any thing of these circumstances,
I am inclined to think very little benefit will be pro-
duced by such inquiry; and that our application at
home for some allowance on that account will be
better founded on what the Assembly, after their
own inquiry, have thought themselves obliged to
pay, than on such an imperfect list as has been
sent to me. This, however, I submit; and if it
should still be thought proper to apply in England
on the footing of the list, another copy must be
forwarded by some future opportunity.

His Lordship has on all occasions treated me with
the greatest goodness, but I find frequently that
wrong prejudices are infused into his mind against
our province. We have too many enemies among
ourselves, but I hope in time things will wear a better
face. Please to present my humble respects to the
House, and believe me, with great esteem, &c,

B. Franklin.

1757] Benjamin Franklin 191

CLXI

TO MRS. JANE MECOM

New York, 30 May, 1757.

Dear Sister: — I have before me yours of the 9th
and 1 6th instant. I am glad you have resolved to
visit sister Dowse of tener ; it will be a great comfort
to her to find she is not neglected by you, and your
example may, perhaps, be followed by some others
of her relations.

As Neddy is yet a young man, I hope he may get
over the disorder he complains of, and in time wear
it out. My love to him and his wife and the rest of
your children. It gives me pleasure to hear that
Eben is likely to get into business at his trade. If
he will be industrious and frugal, it is ten to one but
he gets rich, for he seems to have spirit and activity.

I am glad that Peter is acquainted with the
crown-soap business so as to make what is good of
the kind. I hope he will always take care to make
it faithfully, and never slight the manufacture, or
attempt to deceive by appearances. Then he may
boldly put his name and mark, and in a little time
it will acquire as good a character as that made by
his late uncle, or any other person whatever. I be-
lieve his aunt at Philadelphia can help him to sell
a good deal of it ; and I doubt not of her doing every
thing in her power to promote his interest in that
way. Let a box be sent to her (but not unless it be
right good), and she will immediately return the
ready money for it. It was beginning once to be in
vogue in Philadelphia, but brother John sent me

192 The Works of [1757

one box, an ordinary sort, which checked its pro-
gress. I would not have him put the Franklin arms
on it, but the soapboilers' arms he has a right to
use, if he thinks fit. The other would look too much
like an attempt to counterfeit. In his advertise-
ments he may value himself on serving his time with
the original maker, but his own mark or device on
the papers, or any thing he may be advised to as
proper ; only on the soap, as it is called by the name
of crown-soap, it seems necessary to use a stamp of
that sort, and perhaps no soapboiler in the King's
dominions has a better right to the crown than
himself.

Nobody has wrote a syllable to me concerning his
making use of the hammer, or made the least com-
plaint of him or you. I am sorry, however, that he
took it without leave. It was irregular, and if you
had not approved of his doing it, I should have
thought it indiscreet. Leave, they say, is light, and
it seems to me a piece of respect that was due to his
aunt, to ask it, and I can scarce think she would have
refused him the favor.

I am glad to hear Johnny is so good and diligent a
workman. If he ever sets up at the goldsmith's
business, he must remember that there is one accom-
plishment without which he cannot possibly thrive
in that trade — that is, perfect honesty. It is a busi-
ness that, though ever so uprightly managed, is
always liable to suspicion; and if a man is once de-
tected in the smallest fraud, it soon becomes public,
and every one is put upon his guard against him;
no one will venture to try his wares, or trust him to

1757] Benjamin Franklin 193

make up his plate; so at once he is ruined. I hope
my nephew will, therefore, establish a character as
an honest and faithful as well as skilful workman, and
then he need not fear for employment.

And now, as to what you propose for Benny, I
believe he may be, as you say, well enough qualified
for it; and when he appears to be settled, if a va-
cancy should happen, it is very probable he may be
thought of to supply it ; but it is a rule with me not
to remove any officer that behaves well, keeps regu-
lar accounts, and pays duly; and I think the rule
is founded on reason and justice. I have not shown
any backwardness to assist Benny, where it could
be done without injuring another. But if my
friends require of me to gratify not only their inclina-
tions, but their resentments, they expect too much
of me. Above all things I dislike family quarrels,
and when they happen among my relations, nothing
gives me more pain. If I were to set myself up as a
judge of those subsisting between you and brother's
widow and children, how unqualified must I be, at
this distance, to determine rightly, especially having
heard but one side. They always treated me with
friendly and affectionate regard ; you have done the
same. What can I say between you, but that I wish
you were reconciled, and that I will loVe that side
best that is most ready to forgive and oblige the
other ? You will be angry with me here, for putting
you and them too much upon a footing; but I shall
nevertheless be, dear sister, your truly affectionate
brother,

B. Franklin.

VOL. III. — 13.

194 The Works of [1757

CLXII

TO MRS. DEBORAH FRANKLIN

New York, 2 June, 1757.

My Dear Child: — I have just received yours of
the 29th. You do not tell me whether you take the
trunk of books with you, but I suppose you do. It
is now said we are all to go on board to-morrow, and
sail down to the Hook. I hope it will be so, for,
having now nothing to do, my stay here is extremely
tedious. Please to give my respects to Mrs. Moore,
and assure her that I will take care of her letters.
You will find sundry parcels that came from London,
some directed to the Library Company, some for Mr.
Bartram. Deliver them, if not delivered. Desire Mr.
Normandy to send after me a fresh memorandum of
what he wanted, Mr. Collinson having lost the former.

I hope my dear Sally will behave in every thing to
your satisfaction, and mind her learning and im-
provement. As my absence will make your house
quieter, and lessen your business, you will have the
more leisure to instruct her and form her. I pray
God to bless you both, and that we may once more
have a happy meeting. God preserve, guard, and
guide you.

It is a doubt whether your next letters will reach
us here. Billy joins with me in love to all friends,
and presents his duty to you and love to his sister.
My duty to mother and love to all the family. I
shall endeavour to write to you once more before we
sail, being as ever, my dear child, your affectionate
husband, B. Franklin.

1757] Benjamin Franklin 195

CLXIII

TO MRS. DEBORAH FRANKLIN

London, 27 July, 1757.

My Dear Child: — We arrived here well last
night, only a little fatigued with the last day's jour-
ney, being seventy miles. I write only this line, not
knowing of any opportunity of sending it; but Mr.
Collinson will inquire for one, as he is going out.
If he finds one, I shall write more largely. I have
just seen Mr. Strahan, who is well, with his family.
Billy is with me here at Mr. Collinson 's, and presents
his duty to you and love to his sister. My love to
all. I am, my dear child, your loving husband,

B. Franklin.1

CLXIV

TO MRS. DEBORAH FRANKLIN

London, 22 November, 1757.

My Dear Child: — During my illness, which con-
tinued near eight weeks, I wrote you several little
letters, as I was able. The last was by the packet
which sailed from Falmouth above a week since. In
that I informed you that my intermittent fever,
which had continued to harass me by frequent

1 The packet in which he sailed was bound to Falmouth. In his
autobiography, after describing the voyage, his narrow escape from
shipwreck on the Scilly rocks, and his arrival in port, he adds: "I set
out immediately, with my son, for London, and we only stopped a
little by the way to view Stonehenge, on Salisbury Plain, and Lord
Pemberton's house and gardens, with the very curious antiquities at
Wilton."

196 The Works of [1757

relapses, was gone off, and I have ever since been
gathering strength and flesh. My doctor, Fother-
gill, who had forbid me the use of pen and ink, now
permits me to write as much as I can without over
fatiguing myself, and therefore I sit down to write
more fully than I have hitherto been able to do.

The 2d of September I wrote to you that I had
had a violent cold and something of a fever, but that
it was almost gone. However, it was not long before
I had another severe cold, which continued longer
than the first, attended by great pain in my head,
the top of which was very hot, and when the pain
went off, very sore and tender. These fits of pain
continued sometimes longer than at others; seldom
less than twelve hours, and once thirty-six hours. I
was now and then a little delirious ; they cupped me
on the back of the head, which seemed to ease me
for the present ; I took a great deal of bark, both in
substance and infusion, and too soon thinking my-
self well, I ventured out twice, to do a little business
and forward the service I am engaged in, and both
times got fresh cold and fell down again. My good
doctor grew very angry with me for acting contrary
to his cautions and directions, and obliged me to
promise more observance for the future. He at-
tended me very carefully and affectionately ; and the
good lady of the house nursed me kindly.1 Billy

1 This lady was Mrs. Margaret Stevenson, who kept a boarding-
house in Craven Street, near the Strand, and with whom Dr. Franklin
lived during the whole fifteen years of his residence in London. For
Mrs. Stevenson and her daughter, Miss Mary Stevenson, who at this
time was eighteen years old, he formed a strong attachment, which
continued through life. His first acquaintance with Mrs. Steven-

1757] Benjamin Franklin 197

was also of great service to me, in going from place
to place, where I could not go myself, and Peter was
very diligent and attentive. I took so much bark in
various ways, that I began to abhor it; I durst not
take a vomit, for fear of my head; but at last I was
seized one morning with a vomiting and purging, the
latter of which continued the greater part of the day,
and I believe was a kind of crisis to the distemper,
carrying it clear off ; for ever since I feel quite light-
some, and am every day gathering strength; so I
hope my seasoning is over, and that I shall enjoy
better health during the rest of my stay in England.

son was accidental, he being recommended to her house by some of
his Pennsylvania friends who had boarded there. Miss Stevenson
was a girl of excellent sense, and of a highly cultivated mind, and some
of his best letters on philosophical and other subjects were written to
her. In the London Guide Books, "No. 7 Craven Street," is still in-
dicated as the house in which Dr. Franklin resided.

Miss Stevenson's time was mostly passed in the country with Mrs.
Tickell, her aunt; and this absence from her mother's house was the
cause of the correspondence between her and Dr. Franklin, who re-
commended books for her reading, directed her studies, and answered
her philosophical inquiries. She was married in the year 1770 to
William Hewson, a distinguished anatomist, who is known by his nu-
merous papers in the Philosophical Transactions, and particularly by
his work on the Lymphatic System. As a reward for his anatomical
discoveries he was honored with the Copley Medal. He was likewise
elected a fellow of the Royal Society. He died in 1774, thus terminat-
ing a brilliant career at the early age of thirty-four. His widow was
left with three infant children. In the meantime her fortune was
increased by the death of an aunt, and she devoted herself to the care
of her mother and the education of her children. Mrs. Stevenson, her
mother, died in January, 1783. Mrs. Hewson continued to reside in
England till 1786, when she came over with her children to Philadel-
phia. She lived there till 1792, and then removed to Bristol in Penn-
sylvania, where her eldest son had established himself, and where she
died, on the 14th of October, 1795. This son went afterwards to Vera
Cruz, and died there in 1802. Her grandchildren are still living
in Philadelphia.

198 The Works of [1757

I thank you for writing to me so frequently and
fully. I believe I have missed none of your letters
yet, but those by Lyon, who was taken. You men-
tion Mr. Scott's being robbed, but do not say to
what value. Was it considerable? I have seen Mr.
Ralph, and delivered him Mrs. Garrigues's letter.
He is removed from Turnham Green. When I re-
turn, I will tell you every thing relating to him. In
the mean time I must advise Mrs. Garrigues not to
write to him again, till I send her word how to direct
her letters, he being unwilling, for some good reasons,
that his present wife should know any thing of his
having any connexions in America. He expresses
great affection for his daughter and grandchildren.
He has but one child here.

I have found David Edwards, and send you some
of his letters, with one for his father. I am glad to
hear that our friends at Newark got well through the
smallpox.

The above particulars are in answer to things
mentioned in your letters, and so are what follow.

Governor Shirley's affairs are still in an uncertain
state; he is endeavouring to obtain an inquiry into
his conduct, but the confusion of public affairs occa-
sions it to be postponed. He and I visit frequently.
I make no doubt but reports will be spread by my
enemies to my disadvantage, but let none of them
trouble you. If I find I can do my country no good,
I will take care at least not to do it any harm ; I will
neither seek nor expect any thing for myself; and,
though I may perhaps not be able to obtain for the
people what they wish and expect, no interest shall

1757] Benjamin Franklin 199

induce me to betray the trust they have reposed in
me; so make yourself quite easy in regard to such
reports.

Mr. Hunter is better than he has been for a long
time. He and his sister desire to be remembered
to you. I believe I left the seal with Mr. Parker. I
am glad to hear that Mr. Boudinot has so seasonable
a supply, and hope he will not go to mining again.
I am obliged to all my friends that visit you in my
absence. My love to them.

Mr. Ralph delivered me your letters very oblig-
ingly; he is well respected by people of value here.
I thank you for sending me brother Johnny's jour-
nal; I hope he is well, and sister Read and the
children. I am sorry to hear of Mr. Burt's death.
He came to me at New York with a proposal that I
did not approve of, but it showed his good will and
respect for me; when I return, I will tell you what
it was. I shall entertain Mr. Collinson and Dr.
Fothergill with your account of Teedyuskung's visit.

I should have read Sally's French letter with more
pleasure, but that I thought the French rather too
good to be all her own composing. I suppose her
master must have corrected it. But I am glad she
is improving in that and her music; I send her a
French Pamela.

You were very lucky in not insuring the rum. We
are obliged to Mr. Booth for his care in that remit-
tance. I suppose you have wrote to acknowledge
the receipt of it. I have not yet seen Mr. Burkett.
I am not much surprised at Green's behaviour; he
has not an honest principle, I fear. I have not yet

200 The Works of [1757

seen Mr. Walsteinholme, but he is arrived. I am
glad you went to Elizabeth town, and that Ben has
got that good girl. I hope they will do well. When
you write, remember my love to her.

December 3d. — I write by little and little as I can
find time. I have now gone through all your agree-
able letters, which give me fresh pleasure every time
I read them. Last night I received another, dated
October 16th, which brings me the good news that
you and Sally were got safe home ; your last, of the
9th, being from Elizabethtown. Budden's ship is
not yet come up to London, but is daily expected,
having been some time at Cowes. Mr. Hall has sent
me a bill, as you mention. Mr. Walsteinholme is
come to town, and I expect to see him to-day. When
I have inquired how things are with Green, I shall
write some directions to you what to do in the affair.

I am glad to hear that Miss Ray is well, and that
you correspond. It is not convenient to be forward
in giving advice in such cases. She has prudence
enough to judge for herself, and I hope she will judge
and act for the best.

I hear there has a miniature painter gone over
to Philadelphia, a relation to John Reynolds. If
Sally's picture is not done to your mind by the young
man, and the other gentleman is a good hand and
follows the business, suppose you get Sally's done
by him, and send it to me with your small picture,
that I may here get all our little family drawn in
one conversation piece. I am sorry to hear of the
general sickness; I hope it is over before this time,
and that little Franky is recovered.

1757] Benjamin Franklin 201

I was as much disappointed in my intention of
writing by the packet as you were in not receiving
letters, and it has since given me a great deal of
vexation. I wrote to you by way of New York
the day after my arrival in London, which I do not
find you have received.

I do not use to be a backward correspondent,
though my sickness has brought me behindhand
with my friends in that respect. Had I been well,
I intended to have gone round among the shops, and
bought some pretty things for you and my dear good
Sally (whose little hands you say eased your head-
ache), to send by this ship, but I must now defer it
to the next, having only got a crimson satin cloak
for you, the newest fashion, and the black silk for
Sally; but Billy sends her a scarlet feather, muff,
and tippet, and a box of fashionable linen for her
dress. In the box is a thermometer for Mr. Taylor,
and one for Mr. Schlatter, which you will carefully
deliver; as also a watch for Mr. Schlatter. I shall
write to them. The black silk was sent to Mr.
Neates, who undertook to forward it in some pack-
age of his.

It is now twelve days since I began to write this
letter, and I still continue well, but have not yet
quite recovered my strength, flesh, or spirits. I
every day drink a glass of infusion of bark in wine, by
way of prevention, and hope my fever will no more
return. On fair days, which are but few, I venture
out about noon. The agreeable conversation I meet
with among men of learning, and the notice taken
of me by persons of distinction, are the principal

202 The Works of [1757

things that soothe me for the present under this
painful absence from my family and friends. Yet
those would not keep me here another week, if I had
not other inducements — duty to my country, and
hopes of being able to do it service.

Pray remember me kindly to all that love us, and
to all that we love. It is endless to name names. I
am, my dear child, your loving husband,

B. Franklin.

CLXV

FROM WILLIAM STRAHAN TO MRS. FRANKLIN ■

London, 13 December, 1757.

Dear Madam: — I will not write to you, for the
future, as a stranger whom I never had the happi-
ness of seeing, but as to one with whom I have
been for some time acquainted; for, having had the
pleasure for several months past to be personally
known to what you will readily allow to be your
better half, you will permit me to fancy I am by no
means ignorant of the essential qualities of the other.

I had for many years conceived a very high, and
now find a very just, opinion of Mr. Franklin. This
I was naturally led to by the concurring testimony

1 Mr. Strahan was printer to the King, in which station he acquired a
handsome fortune. He was eminent for his talents and character. In
the year 1775, he was elected to Parliament from the borough of
Malmesbury, as a colleague of Mr. Fox. He died the 9th of July, 1785,
at the age of 70. A long and close intimacy subsisted between him and
Dr. Franklin, and much of their correspondence, which was volumin-
ous, has been preserved, though but a small portion of Strahan 's has
been printed.

i7S7] Benjamin Franklin 203

of everybody who knew him (for the voice of his
enemies, if he ever had any, never reached me), and
by the opportunities I have had of judging for my-
self, during my correspondence with him for a dozen
years. But though the notion I had formed of him,
in my own mind, before I had the pleasure of seeing
him, was really, as far as it went, just enough, I
must confess it was very unequal to what I know
his singular merit deserves.

I own it is somewhat odd to entertain a lady with
the character of her husband, who must herself, of
all others, be the least ignorant in that particular.
But as all who know me know that I cannot help
speaking my sentiments freely on any subject that
strikes me in a great degree, so I choose to write my
mind in regard to Mr. Franklin, before all others, to
you, because you are the most unexceptionable judge
of the truth and propriety of what I say, and because
I am persuaded you will listen to me, not only with
patience but with pleasure; and indeed, whatever
your own personal qualities may be, however ami-
able and engaging in my mind, your being the choice
of such a man must add greatly to your honor. To
be the wife of one who has so much ability, inclina-
tion, and success, if you view him in a public capac-
ity, in being eminently useful to his country, must
necessarily confer on you great reputation; and to
be the bosom friend of one who is equally fitted to
promote any kind of domestic happiness, must as
necessarily be the constant spring of the most sub-
stantial comfort to you.

For my own part, I never saw a man who was, in

204 The Works of [1757

every respect, so perfectly agreeable to me. Some
are amiable in one view, some in another, he in all.
Now, Madam, as I know the ladies here consider
him in exactly the same light I do, upon my word
I think you should come over, with all convenient
speed, to look after your interest; not but that I
think him as faithful to his Joan as any man breath-
ing; but who knows what repeated and strong
temptation may in time, and while he is at so great
a distance from you, accomplish? Besides, what a
delightful expedition would this be to Miss Frank-
lin, and how must it amuse and improve her, to see
and live a while in this great city. I know you will
object to the length of the voyage and the danger of
the seas ; but truly this is more terrible in apprehen-
sion than in reality. Of all the ways of travelling,
it is the easiest and most expeditious; and, as for
the danger, there has not a soul been lost between
Philadelphia and this, in my memory ; and I believe
not one ship taken by the enemy.

Is the trouble and risk, then, of such a voyage to
be compared in any degree with the pleasure it will
afford you and your best friends? By no means.
Instead of being afraid of the sea, we ought to have
a particular regard for it, as it is so far from being a
bar to the communication and intercourse of differ-
ent and far distant countries, that it facilitates their
correspondence in a very high degree. Nay more, it
conveys in the floating castles of your mother coun-
try that protection and assistance which I trust will
soon give peace to your borders. I might urge as an
additional inducement for you to come over in the

i757l Benjamin Franklin 205

spring, that the important business with which Mr.
Franklin is charged in the service of his country
(which I dare say you would wish above all things
may be brought to a happy conclusion) may very
probably detain him more than one season, which
will exhaust your patience to such a degree, that
you may repent, when too late, you did not listen to
my advice.

Your son I really think one of the prettiest young
gentlemen I ever knew from America. He seems to
me to have a solidity of judgment not very often to
be met with in one of his years. This, with the
daily opportunities he has of improving himself in
the company of his father, who is at the same time
his friend, his brother, his intimate and easy com-
panion, affords an agreeable prospect that your hus-
band's virtues and usefulness to his country may be
prolonged beyond the date of his own life.

Your daughter (I wish I could call her mine), I
find by the reports of all who know her, is a very
amiable girl in all respects; but of her I shall say
nothing till I have the pleasure of seeing her. Only
I must observe to you, that being mistress of such
a family is a degree of happiness perhaps the greatest
that falls to the lot of humanity. I sincerely wish
you very long the unabated enjoyment of them. I
leave it to your friend to write you every thing
from this place you would desire to know. But I
cannot take my leave without informing you that
Mr. Franklin has the good fortune to lodge with a
very discreet gentlewoman who is particularly care-
ful of him, who attended him during a very severe

206 The Works of [1757

cold he was some time ago seized with, with an
assiduity, concern, and tenderness which perhaps
only yourself could equal, so that I don't think you
could have a better substitute till you come over to
take him under your own protection. He is now
perfectly recovered.

My own family are, I thank God, just now in per-
fect health. My wife joins me in kindest compli-
ments to you and dear Miss, not forgetting her
honest son David l and his fireside. I wish you a
speedy and happy meeting with your friends on this
side the water, which will give great pleasure to,
dear Madam, your most affectionate humble servant,

William Strahan.

CLXVI

TO JOHN PRINGLE 2

Craven Street, 21 December, 1757.

Sir: — In compliance with your request, I send
you the following account of what I can at present
recollect relating to the effects of electricity in para-
lytic cases which have fallen under my observation.

Some years since, when the newspapers made
mention of great cures performed in Italy and Ger-
many by means of electricity, a number of paralytics
were brought to me from different parts of Pennsyl-
vania, and the neighbouring provinces, to be elec-
trized, which I did for them at their request. My

1 David Hall, the partner of Franklin in the printing business.

2 Afterwards Sir John Pringle, and President of the Royal Society.

i7S7] Benjamin Franklin 207

method was to place the patient first in a chair, on
an electric stool, and draw a number of large strong
sparks from all parts of the affected limb or side.
Then I fully charged two six gallon glass jars, each
of which had about three square feet of surface
coated ; and I sent the united shock of these through
the affected limb or limbs, repeating the stroke com-
monly three times each day. The first thing ob-
served was an immediate greater sensible warmth in
the lame limbs that had received the stroke than in
the others; and the next morning the patients usu-
ally related that they had in the night felt a pricking
sensation in the flesh of the paralytic limbs; and
would sometimes show a number of small red spots,
which they supposed were occasioned by those prick-
ings. The limbs, too, were found more capable of
voluntary motion, and seemed to receive strength.
A man, for instance, who could not the first day lift
the lame hand from off his knee, would the next day
raise it four or five inches; the third day, higher;
and on the fifth day was able, but with a feeble, lan-
guid motion, to take off his hat. These appearances
gave great spirits to the patients, and made them
hope a perfect cure; but I do not remember that I
ever saw any amendment after the fifth day ; which
the patients perceiving, and finding the shocks pretty
severe, they became discouraged, went home, and in a
short time relapsed ; so that I never knew any advan-
tage from electricity in palsies, that was permanent.
And how far the apparent, temporary advantage
might arise from the exercise in the patients'
journey, and coming daily to my house, or from the

208 The Works of [1758

spirits given by the hope of success, enabling them
to exert more strength in moving their limbs, I will
not pretend to say.

Perhaps some permanent advantage might have
been obtained if the electric shocks had been accom-
panied with proper medicine and regimen, under the
direction of a skilful physician. It may be, too,
that a few great strokes, as given in my method, may
not be so proper as many small ones; since by the
account from Scotland of a case in which two hun-
dred shocks from a phial were given daily, it seems
that a perfect cure has been made. As to any un-
common strength supposed to be in the machine
used in that case, I imagine it could have no share
in the effect produced; since the strength of the
shock from charged glass is in proportion to the
quantity of surface of the glass coated; so that my
shocks from those large jars must have been much
greater than any that could be received from a phial
held in the hand.

I am, with great respect, Sir,

Your most obedient servant,

B. Franklin.

CLXVII

TO JOHN PRINGLE

Craven Strebt, 6 January, 1758.

Sir: — I return you Mr. Mitchell's paper on the
strata of the earth, with thanks. The reading of it,

1758] Benjamin Franklin 209

and perusal of the draft that accompanies it, have
reconciled me to those convulsions which all natural-
ists agree this globe has suffered. Had the different
strata of clay, gravel, marble, coals, limestone, sand,
minerals, &c, continued to lie level, one under the
other, as they may be supposed to have done before
those convulsions, we should have had the use only
of a few of the uppermost of the strata, the others
lying too deep and too difficult to be come at ; but, the
shell of the earth being broke, and the fragments
thrown into this oblique position, the disjointed ends
of a great number of strata of different kinds are
brought up to day, and a great variety of useful
materials put into our power, which would otherwise
have remained eternally concealed from us. So that
what has been usually looked upon as a ruin suffered
by this part of the universe, was, in reality, only a
preparation, or means of rendering the earth more
fit for use, more capable of being to mankind a con-
venient and comfortable habitation.
I am, Sir, with great esteem, yours, &c,

B. Franklin.

CLXVIII

TO MRS. DEBORAH FRANKLIN

London, 14 January, 1758.

Dear Debby: — I wrote a very long letter to you
lately, two whole sheets full, containing answers to all
yours received during my sickness. I have since

VOL. II. — Zi

210 The Works of [1758

received your kind favors of November 13th and 16th.
It has given me great concern, that you should be so
disappointed in having no letters by Captain Lut-
widge. You know by this time how it happened;
but I wonder you should expect letters from me by
the way of Ireland, it being quite out of my know-
ledge when vessels are to sail from thence.

I am thankful to God for sparing my little family
in that time of general sickness, and hope to find
them all well at my return. The New York paper
you sent me was the latest that came, and of use to
our friend Strahan. He has offered to lay me a con-
siderable wager, that a letter he has wrote to you will
bring you immediately over hither; but I tell him I
will not pick his pocket ; for I am sure there is no in-
ducement strong enough to prevail with you to cross
the seas. I should be glad if I could tell you when I
expected to be at home, but that is still in the dark ;
it is possible I may not be able to get away this sum-
mer; but I hope, if I stay another winter, it will be
more agreeable than the greatest part of the time I
have hitherto spent in England. But, however, I
must bring my business to some conclusion.

I received Sally's letter of November 12th, but can-
not now write to her. I wrote to my friends gener-
ally by the last packet, and shall write to them again
by a ship of Mr. Ralph's, to sail from here in about a
fortnight. I am not yet quite so hearty as before my
illness; but I think I am daily stronger and better,
so I hope I have had my seasoning; but much writ-
ing still disorders me.

My duty to mother, and love to Sally, Debby, Mr.

1758] Benjamin Franklin 211

Dunlap, and all friends that inquire after me. I am,
my dear child, your ever loving husband,

B. Franklin.
P. S. — Billy presents his duty to you and mother,
and love to his sister.

CLXIX

TO MRS. DEBORAH FRANKLIN

London, 21 January, 1758.

My Dear Child: — Mr. Lorimer, a friend who is
going over to General Abercromby, to assist him as
secretary, called on me just now to acquaint me that
he is on the point of setting out. I seize a minute or
two just to let you know we are well, that is, I am
well, compared to what I have been during a great
part of the time since my arrival, and I hope with the
spring to recover my full strength. Billy is quite
hearty, and presents his duty, love, &c.

I have wrote to you by several opportunities lately,
and particularly one long letter of two sheets, which
I hope will come to hand, as it contained a full an-
swer to a number of yours received during my illness,
and I have no copy of it.

I begin to think I shall hardly be able to return
before this time twelve months. I am for doing ef-
fectually what I came about; and I find it requires
both time and patience. You may think, perhaps,
that I can find many amusements here to pass the
time agreeably. It is true, the regard and friendship

212 The Works of [1758

I meet with from persons of worth, and the conversa-
tion of ingenious men, give me no small pleasure;
but, at this time of life, domestic comforts afford the
most solid satisfaction, and my uneasiness at being
absent from my family, and longing desire to be with
them, make me often sigh in the midst of cheerful
company.

My love to my dear Sally. I confide in you the
care of her and her education. I promise myself
the pleasure of finding her much improved at my re-
turn. While I am writing, three letters came in, one
from Mr. Hall, one from Mr. Rhoads, another from
Dr. Bond, but none from you. They are by way
of Bristol. I must send this away immediately, lest
Mr. Lorimer should be gone. My respects to those
gentlemen, to whom I shall write, and to my other
friends, by Mr. Ralph's vessel, which sails next week.
I am your ever loving husband,

B. Franklin.

P. S. — When you write to Boston, give my love to
sister Jenny, as I have not often time to write to her.
If you please, you may send her the enclosed little
picture.

CLXX

TO MRS. DEBORAH FRANKLIN

London, 19 February, 1758.

My Dear Child : — I have wrote you several long
letters lately; the last was by Mr. Ralph, and at the
same time I wrote to my dear Sally. Last night I re-

i758J Benjamin Franklin 213

ceived yours of the 1st and 6th of January, which gave
me the great pleasure of hearing that you and my little
family were well. I hope you continue so, and that
I shall have the happiness to find you so. The letter
you mention to have sent me by Captain Robinson is
not come to hand; but that by Mr. Hunt I received
and answered.

I regret the loss of my friend Parsons. Death be-
gins to make breaches in the little junto of old friends
that he had long forborne, and it must be expected
he will now soon pick us all off one after another.

Your kind advice about getting a chariot, I had
taken some time before ; for I found that every time
I walked out I got a fresh cold; and the hackney
coaches at this end of the town, where most people
keep their own, are the worst in the whole city, miser-
able, dirty, broken, shabby things, unfit to go into
when dressed clean, and such as one would be ashamed
to get out of at any gentleman's door. As to burning
wood, it would answer no end, unless one would fur-
nish all one's neighbours and the whole city with the
same. The whole town is one great smoky house,
and every street a chimney, the air full of floating
seacoal soot, and you never get a sweet breath of what
is pure, without riding some miles for it into the
country.

I am sorry to hear that a storm has damaged a
house of my good friend Mr. Bartram. Acquaint him
that I have received the seeds, and shall write to him
shortly. I hope the Speaker is recovered of the ill-
ness you mention.

Give my thanks to Dr. Bond for the care he takes

214 The Works of [1758

of you. I have wrote to him by this vessel. Mr.
Hunter and Polly talk of returning this spring. He is
wonderfully recruited. They both desire to be re-
membered to you. She received your letter and an-
swered it. Her answer I enclosed in one of mine to
you. Her daughter Rachel, who plays on the harpsi-
chord and sings prettily, sends Sally one of her songs
that I fancied.

I send you by Captain Budden a large case and a
small box. In the large case is another small box,
containing some English china, viz.: melons and
leaves for a desert of fruit and cream, or the like ; a
bowl remarkable for the neatness of the figures, made
at Bow, near this city ; some coffee cups of the same ;
a Worcester bowl, ordinary. To show the difference
of workmanship, there is something from all the china
works in England; and one old true china basin
mended, of an odd color. The same box contains
four silver salt ladles, newest, but ugliest, fashion; a
little instrument to core apples ; another to make little
turnips out of great ones ; six coarse diaper breakfast
cloths; they are to spread on the tea table, for no-
body breakfasts here on the naked table, but on the
cloth they set a large tea board with the cups.
There is also a little basket, a present from Mrs.
Stevenson to Sally, and a pair of garters for you,
which were knit by the young lady, her daughter,
who favored me with a pair of the same kind, the
only ones I have been able to wear, as they need not
be bound tight, the ridges in them preventing their
slipping. We send them therefore as a curiosity for
the form, more than for the value. Goody Smith

1758] Benjamin Franklin 215

may, if she pleases, make such for me hereafter.
My love to her.

In the great case, besides the little box, is con-
tained some carpeting for a best room floor. There
is enough for one large or two small ones ; it is to be
sewed together, the edges being first felled down,
and care taken to make the figures meet exactly;
there is bordering for the same. This was my fancy.
Also two large fine Flanders bedticks, and two pair
of large superfine blankets, two fine damask table-
cloths and napkins, and forty- three ells of Ghentish
sheeting Holland. These you ordered. There are
also fifty-six yards of cotton, printed curiously from
copper plates, a new invention, to make bed and
window curtains; and seven yards of chair bottoms,
printed in the same way, very neat. These were my
fancy; but Mrs. Stevenson tells me I did wrong not
to buy both of the same color. Also seven yards of
printed cotton, blue ground, to make you a gown. I
bought it by candlelight, and liked it then, but not
so well afterwards. If you do not fancy it, send it
as a present from me to sister Jenny. There is a
better gown for you, of flowered tissue, sixteen yards,
of Mrs. Stevenson's fancy, cost nine guineas; and I
think it a great beauty. There was no more of the
sort, or you should have had enough for a negligee or
suit.

There are also snuffers, a snuffstand, and extin-
guisher, of steel, which I send for the beauty of the
work. The extinguisher is for spermaceti candles
only, and is of a new contrivance, to preserve the
snuff upon the candle. There is some music Billy

216 The Works of [1758

bought for his sister, and some pamphlets for the
Speaker and for Susy Wright. A mahogany and a
little shagreen box, with microscopes and other opti-
cal instruments loose, are for Mr. Alison, if he likes
them; if not, put them in my room till I return. I
send the invoice of them, and I wrote to him for-
merly the reason of my exceeding his orders. There
are also two sets of books, a present from me to
Sally, The World and The Connoisseur. My love to
her.

I forgot to mention another of my fancyings, viz.,
a pair of silk blankets, very fine. They are of a new
kind, were just taken in a French prize, and such
were never seen in England before. They are called
blankets, but I think they will be very neat to cover
a summer bed, instead of a quilt or counterpane. I
had no choice, so you will excuse the soil on some
of the folds; your neighbour Foster can get it off.
I also forgot, among the china, to mention a large
fine jug for beer, to stand in the cooler. I fell in
love with it at first sight; for I thought it looked
like a fat jolly dame clean and tidy, with a neat blue
and white calico gown on, good natured and lovely,
and put me in mind of — somebody. It has the
coffee cups in it, packed in best crystal salt, of a pe-
culiar nice flavor, for the table, not to be powdered.

I hope Sally applies herself closely to her French
and music, and that I shall find she has made great
proficiency. The harpischord I was about, and
which was to have cost me forty guineas, Mr. Stanley
advises me not to buy; and we are looking out for
another, one that has been some time in use, and is a

1758] Benjamin Franklin 217

tried good one, there being not so much dependence
on a new one, though made by the best hands,
Sally's last letter to her brother is the best wrote
that of late I have seen of hers. I only wish she was
a little more careful of her spelling. I hope she con-
tinues to love going to church, and would have her
read over and over again The Whole Duty of Man,
and The Lady's Library.

Look at the figures on the china bowl and
coffee cups, with your spectacles on ; they will bear
examining.

I have made your compliments to Mrs. Stevenson.
She is indeed very obliging, takes great care of my
health, and is very diligent when I am any way in-
disposed; but yet I have a thousand times wished
you with me, and my little Sally with her ready
hands and feet to do, and go, and come, and get
what I wanted. There is a great difference in sick-
ness between being nursed with that tender atten-
tion which proceeds from sincere love, and x

CLXXI

TO THOMAS HUBBARD, AT BOSTON

London, 28 April, 1758.

Sir: — In pursuance of Mr. Winthrop's memoran-
dum, which I lately received from you, through the
hands of Mr. Mico, I have procured and delivered to
him the following things, viz. :

1 The remainder of the letter is lost.

218 The Works of [1758

A mahogany case lined with lead, containing
thirty-five square glass bottles, in five rows, seven
in a row.

A glass globe of the same size and kind with that
I used at Philadelphia, and mounted in the same
manner.

A large glass cylinder, mounted on an iron axis
with brass caps; this form being most used here, and
thought better than the globe, as a long narrow
cushion will electrify a greater surface at the same
time.

The bottles have necks, which I think better than
to be quite open; for so they would either be ex-
posed to the dust and damp of the air, if they had
no stoppers, or the stoppers would be too near to-
gether to admit of electrifying a single bottle, or row
of bottles; there is only a little more difficulty in
lining the inside with tinfoil, but that is chiefly got
over by cutting it into narrow strips, and guiding
them in with a stick flat at one end, to apply the
more conveniently to the pasted side of the glass.
I would have coated them myself, if the time had
not been too short. I send the tinfoil, which I got
made of a proper breadth for the purpose; they
should be coated nine inches high, which brings the
coating just even with the edge of the case. The
tinfoil is ten inches broad, which allows for lapping
over the bottom.

I have bored the holes in all the stoppers for the
communicating wires, provided all the wires, and
fixed one or two to show the manner. Each wire, to
go into a bottle, is bent so that the two ends go in

1758] Benjamin Franklin 219

and spring against the inside coating or lining. The
middle of the wire goes up into the stopper, with an
eye, through which the long communicating wires
pass, that connect all the bottles in one row.

To form occasional communications with more
rows, there must be, on the long wires of the second
and fourth rows, four other movable wires, which I
call cross- wires, about two inches and a half long,
with a small ball of any metal about the size of a
pistol-bullet at each end. The ball of one end is to
have a hole through the middle, so that it may be
slipped on the long wire; and one of these cross-
wires is to be placed between the third and fourth
bottles of the row at each end; and on each of the
above-mentioned rows, that is, two to each row,
they must be made to turn easy on the wires, so that
when you would charge only the middle row, you
turn two of them back on the first, and two on the
fifth row, then the middle row will be unconnected
with the others. When you would charge more
rows, you turn them forwards or backwards, so as
to have the communication completed with just the
number of rows you want.

The brass handles of the case communicate with
the outside of the bottles, when you wish to make
the electrical circuit.

I see, now I have wrote it, that the greatest part
of this letter would have been more properly ad-
dressed to Mr. Winthrop himself * ; but probably

1 At that time Professor of Mathematics and Natural Philosophy in
Harvard University, for which institution the electrical apparatus de-
scribed in this letter was designed. — S.

220 The Works of [1758

you will send it to him with the things, and that will
answer the end. Be pleased to tender my best re-
spects to him and the rest of the gentlemen of the
College.

I am, with great esteem and regard, Sir,

Your most obliged humble servant,

B. Franklin.

P. S. — I beg the College will do me the favor to
accept a Virgil, which I send in the case, thought to
be the most curiously printed of any bock hitherto
done in the world.1

CLXXII

TO MRS. DEBORAH FRANKLIN

London, io June, 1758.

My Dear Child: — I was down at Cambridge with
Billy when Snead sailed, so I did not write again by
him as I intended. His sailing so soon was unex-
pected to me. I am somewhat out of the way of
vessels, and Mr. Partridge, by mistake, wrote me
Snead was not to sail that week; so, being very
kindly entertained there in the colleges, we did not
hurry so soon home as we might have done. How-
ever, this vessel perhaps may be there about the
same time.

I think nobody ever had more faithful correspon-

1 A copy of Baskerville's quarto edition of Virgil, printed the year
before at Birmingham, and perhaps the most beautiful of the various
works by which this celebrated type-founder and printer gained the
praise of "uniting, in a singularly happy manner, the elegance of
Plan tin with the clearness of the Elzevirs." — S.

1758J Benjamin Franklin 221

dents than I have in Mr. Hughes and you. It is
impossible for me to get or keep out of your debts.
I received the bill of exchange you got of Mr. Nel-
son, and it is paid. I received also the Proprietary's
account. It gives me concern to receive such fre-
quent accounts of your being indisposed; but we
both of us grow in years, and must expect our con-
stitutions, though tolerably good in themselves, will
by degrees give way to the infirmities of age.

I have sent, in a trunk of the Library Company's,
some of the best writing paper for letters, and best
quills and wax, all for Mrs. Moore, which I beg she
would accept; having received such civilities here
from her sister and brother Scott as are not in my
power to return. I shall send some to Sally by the
next opportunity. By Captain Lutwidge I sent my
dear girl a newest fashioned white hat and cloak,
and sundry little things, which I hope will get safe
to hand. I now send her a pair of buckles, made of
French paste stones, which are next in lustre to
diamonds. They cost three guineas, and are said to
be cheap at that price. I fancy I see more likeness
in her picture than I did at first, and I look at it
often with pleasure, as at least it reminds me of
her. Yours is at the painter's, who is to copy it and
do me of the same size; but, as to family pieces, it
is said they never look well, and are quite out of
fashion, and I find the limner very unwilling to
undertake any thing of the kind. However, when
Franky's comes, and that of Sally by young Hessel-
ius, I shall see what can be done. I wonder how you
came by Ben Lay's picture.

222 The Works of [1758

You are very prudent not to engage in party dis-
putes. Women never should meddle with them,
except in endeavours to reconcile their husbands,
brothers, and friends, who happen to be of contrary
sides. If your sex keep cool, you may be a means
of cooling ours the sooner, and restoring more speed-
ily that social harmony among fellow-citizens that is
so desirable after long and bitter dissensions.

Cousin Dunlap x has wrote me an account of his
purchasing Chattin's printing-house. I wish it may
be advantageous to him without injuring Mr. Hall.
I can however do nothing to encourage him, as a
printer in Philadelphia, inconsistent with my pre-
engagement to so faithful a partner. And I trust
you will take care not to do any thing in that way
that may draw reflections on me; as if I did under-
hand, through your means, what I would not care to
appear in openly. I hope he will keep a good under-
standing with Mr. Hall, and I am pleased to hear
that he asked his advice and friendship; but I have
thought it right and necessary to forbid the use of
my letters by Mr. Dunlap without Mr. Hall's con-
sent. The post-ofhce, if it is agreeable to you, may
be removed to Mr. Dunlap's house, it being proposed
by our good friend Mr. Hughes.

I wrote to you lately to speak to Ambruster 2 not
to make use of my name any more in his newspaper,
as I have no particular concern in it, but as one of

1 William Dunlap, an Irish printer married to a relative of his wife.

2 Anthony Ambruster, a German by birth, who printed German
books in Philadelphia, and for some time published a newspaper there
in the German language.

1758] Benjamin Franklin 223

the trustees only. I have no prospect of returning
until next spring, so you will not expect me. But
pray remember to make me as happy as you can, by
sending some pippins for myself and friends, some
of your small hams, and some cranberries.

Billy is of the Middle Temple, and will be called to
the bar either this term or the next. I write this
in answer to your particular inquiry. I am glad
you like the cloak I sent you. The black silk was
sent by our friend Mr. Collinson. I never saw it.
Your answer to Mr. Strahan was just what it should
be. I was much pleased with it. He fancied his
rhetoric and art would certainly bring you over.

I have ordered two large print Common Prayer
Books to be bound, on purpose for you and Goody
Smith ; and, that the largeness of the print may not
make them too bulky, the christenings, matrimonies,
and every thing else that you and she have not
immediate and constant occasion for, are to be
omitted. So you will both of you be reprieved from
the use of spectacles in church a little longer.

If the ringing of the bells frightens you, tie a piece
of wire from one bell to the other, and that will con-
duct the lightning without ringing or snapping, but
silently; though I think it best the bells should be at
liberty to ring, that you may know when they are
electrified; and when you are afraid you may keep
at a distance.1 I wrote last winter to Josey Crocker

1 In the year 1753, he had erected an iron rod for the purpose of
drawing lightning from the clouds into his house. He also placed two
bells in such position that they would ring when the rod was electrified.
See description of this contrivance in vol. ii., in a letter to Peter Collin-
son, dated September, 1753.

224 The Works of [1758

to come over hither and stay a year, and work in
some of the best shops for improvement in his busi-
ness, and therefore did not send the tools ; but if he
is about to be married I would not advise him to
come. I shall send the tools immediately. You
have disposed of the apple-trees very properly. I
condole with you on the loss of your walnuts.

I see the governor's treatment of his wife makes
all the ladies angry. If it is on account of the bad
example, that will soon be removed; for the Pro-
prietors are privately looking out for another; being
determined to discard him, and the place goes
a begging. One, to whom it was offered, sent a
friend to make some inquiries of me. The Pro-
prietors told him they had there a city-house and a
country-house, which he might use rent free; that
every thing was so cheap he might live on five hun-
dred pounds sterling a year, keep a genteel table, a
coach, &c, and his income would be at least nine
hundred pounds. If it fell short of that, the Pro-
prietors would engage to make it up. For the truth
of his being able to live genteelly and keep a coach
for five hundred pounds a year, the Proprietors
referred him to Mr. Hamilton, who, it seems, told
him the same story; but, on inquiry of Mr. Morris,
he had quite a different account, and knew not
which to believe. The gentleman is one Mr. Graves,
a lawyer of the Temple. He hesitated a good while,
and I am now told has declined accepting it. I wish
that may not be true, for he has the character of
being a very good sort of man; though while the
instructions continue, it matters little who is our

1758] Benjamin Franklin 225

governor. It was to have been kept a secret from
me, that the Proprietors were looking out for a new
one ; because they would not have Mr. Denny know
any thing about it, till the appointment was actually
made, and the gentleman ready to embark. So you
may make a secret of it too, if you please, and oblige
all your friends with it.1

1 The Proprietors were dissatisfied with Governor Denny, and re-
solved to remove him. The negotiation with Mr. Graves having failed,
the post was next offered to James Hamilton, a native of Philadelphia,
who had been governor a few years before, and who was at this time
in London. He took an independent ground with the Proprietors,
and seems to have had some difficulty in arranging certain points to
their mutual satisfaction, especially in what related to the long-
disputed question as to taxing the proprietary estates. This is evi-
dent from the following extract from a letter, which he wrote in
London to Thomas Penn, one of the Proprietors, August 21, 1759,
while the negotiation was pending:

"I am sorry," said he, "that this treaty about the government has
been drawn out to so inconvenient a length. Everybody knows I did
not solicit my appointment to it; nor have I varied the terms, on
which I professed to engage in it, one iota from the beginning. Those
terms were, that I would not be restrained from giving my assent to any
reasonable bill for taxing the proprietary estates in common with all the
other estates in the province, because in my opinion it was not more than
just that it should be so. If you have changed your sentiments with
regard to this matter, which for a long time I looked upon to be the
the same as mine, it will give me no pain on my own account. Every
thing that respects me may drop silently, as if it had never been
moved. Only, for saving your time and my own, I think it incumbent
on me to declare, as I have frequently done, that I cannot think of
engaging myself in that service, but upon the terms or conditions
above mentioned."

Mr. Hamilton was appointed governor, and he returned soon after-
wards to Pennsylvania. The reluctance of the Proprietors to have
their lands taxed by the Assembly was not easily overcome, as clearly
appears from their instructions to the governor on this head. They
express a willingness to aid in the defence of the province by suitable
contributions, but claim the privilege of doing it in such manner as
their judgment shall dictate, and deny all right in the Assembly to
impose a tax on their property in the province for any object what-
ever. "Wherefore," they add, "we recommend to you to use the most

VOL. III. — 15.

226 The Works of [1758

I need not tell you to assist godmother in her diffi-
culties; for I know you will think it as agreeable to
me as it is to your own good disposition. I could
not find the bit of thread you mention to have
sent me, of your own spinning. Perhaps it was
too fine to be seen. I am glad little Franky begins
to talk. It will divert you to have him often with
you.

I think I have now gone through your letters,
which always give me great pleasure to receive and
read, since I cannot be with you in person. Distrib-
ute my compliments, respects, and love among my

prudent means in your power, to avoid and prevent the Assembly from
including any part of our estate in the said province in any tax to be by
them raised. But, in case the exigency of the times, the King's imme-
diate service, and the defence of the province cannot be provided
for, unless our estate shall be included in any bill for raising taxes for
such services; then we do, notwithstanding our general dislike of the
same, permit you to give your assent to such a bill, as shall impose a
tax on our rents and quitrents only, but not on our vacant lands, whether
appropriated or not, nor on any fines or purchase money pretended or
supposed to be due to us, which, we are well advised, are not in their
nature liable to taxation ; always provided, as our rents and quitrents
are clear and certain in their amount, that proper and reasonable
clauses be inserted in every such bill, for rendering as clear and as
certain as possible the true value of all other persons' estates, that we
may not be taxed beyond our true proportion with respect to others.
And provided also, that our respective tenants be obliged to pay the same,
and to deduct the same out of our rents, when they account to us or
our receiver, and not to pretend to authorize the sale of any of our
lands for non-payment of taxes."

Clogged with such instructions, although the point of taxation was
yielded to a certain extent, Mr. Hamilton could hardly hope to satisfy
the Assembly or the people, who believed and contended, that, for all
the purposes of defence, the property of the Proprietors in the province,
of whatever kind or however situated, was justly liable to be taxed in
the same proportion, and the same manner, as their own; nor indeed
do the instructions seem to accord fully with Mr. Hamilton's view of
the subject, as expressed in his letter to Mr. Penn. — Sparks.

1758] Benjamin Franklin 227

friends, and believe me ever, my dear Debby, your
affectionate husband,

B. Franklin.

P. S. — Mrs. Stevenson and her daughter desire me
to present their compliments and offer their services
to you and Sally. I think of going into the country
soon, and shall be pretty much out this summer, in
different parts of England. I depend chiefly on
these journeys for the establishment of my health.

CLXXIII

TO THE SPEAKER AND COMMITTEE OF THE PENNSYL-
VANIA ASSEMBLY

London, io June, 1758.

Gentlemen: — In mine of May 13th I gave you a
particular account of the hearing before the Attor-
ney and Solicitor General, on a reference of Smith's
petition. They have not yet made their report, and
would now, I hear, excuse themselves from doing it
as unnecessary, since they have heard that the pris-
oners are discharged. But they are still solicited by
Mr. Penn and Mr. Moore to report, on an allegation
that they have letters advising that warrants are
issued for taking them up again. None of my letters
from Pennsylvania mentions any thing of this. I
have ventured to say I doubt the truth of it. Whether
they will report or not is uncertain; but if they
should report against us, I am determined to dis-
pute the matter again before the Council.

228 The Works of [1758

I send you herewith a copy of the note I furnished
our solicitor with, when drawing his brief; a copy of
the brief itself; a copy of some remarks on the re-
flection thrown upon the Assembly by the Council
at the first hearing, as being Quakers and therefore
against defence, and as bearing malice against Smith
because a clergyman of the Church of England, and
against Moore because he petitioned for defence.
These I gave to our counsel before the second hear-
ing, when they were to speak, and they made good
use of them. I furnished also a number of cases
from the votes of Assemblies in the other colonies,
showing that they all claimed and exercised power
of committing for breach of privilege; but of this
paper of cases I have no copy by me.1

Mr. Charles at my request has drawn the state of
the case, in order to obtain opinions of eminent law-
yers how far our present privileges would be affected
in case of a change of government, by our coming

1 Petitions had been sent to the Assembly, charging William Moore,
president of the Court of Common Pleas in Chester County, with mis-
conduct in his office. Moore was summoned to appear before the
House, which he refused to do. The House found him guilty, how-
ever, and requested the governor to remove him from office. This
was declined by the governor, till he should investigate the case; and
in the meantime Moore published a defence containing language which
the Assembly voted to be slanderous and insulting. It appeared in
evidence also, that William Smith, provost of the College, had been
concerned in revising and correcting this piece before it was published.
Smith was then arrested, and both he and Moore were imprisoned.
The public was much agitated by the controversy. The governor
took the part of the accused. Smith and Moore ultimately appealed
to the King in Council, where it was decided that the Assembly had
transcended their powers, and that their conduct was reprehensible.
A summary of the case is contained in Gordon's History of Pennsyl-
vania, p. 352. — Editor.

1758] Benjamin Franklin 229

immediately under the crown. I send you a copy of
this case, with the opinion of our counsel upon it,
who is esteemed the best acquainted with our
American affairs and constitutions, as well as with
government law in general. He being also thoroughly
knowing in the present views of the Board of Trade,
and in their connexions and characters, has given
me withal, as a friend, some prudential advice in a
separate sheet distinct from his law opinion, because
the law opinion might necessarily appear where he
would not care the advice should be seen. I send
you, also, a copy of this, and should be glad of your
sentiments upon it. One thing that he recommends
to be done before we push our point in Parliament,
is removing the prejudices that art and accident have
spread among the people of this country against us,
and obtaining for us the good opinion of the bulk of
mankind without doors. This I hope we have it in
our power to do, by means of a work now nearly
ready for the press, calculated to engage the atten-
tion of many readers, and at the same time to efface
the bad impressions received of us ; but it is thought
best not to publish it till a little before the next ses-
sion of Parliament.1

The Proprietors are determined to discard their
present governor, as soon as they can find a suc-
cessor to their mind. They have lately offered the
government to one Mr. Graves, a gentleman of the

1 The work here alluded to is undoubtedly the Historical Review of
the Constitution and Government of Pennsylvania, which was first pub-
lished in the year 1759. See letter to David Hume, under date of Sep-
tember 27, 1760.

230 The Works of [1758

Temple, who has had it for some time under con-
sideration, and makes a difficulty of accepting it.
The beginning of the week it was thought he would
accept; but on Thursday night I was told he had
resolved to refuse it. I know not, however, whether
he may not yet be prevailed on. He has the char-
acter of a man of good understanding and good
dispositions, — [incomplete].

CLXXIV

TO JOHN LINING, AT CHARLESTON

London, 17 June, 1758.

Dear Sir: — In a former letter I mentioned the
experiment for cooling bodies by evaporation, and
that I had, by repeatedly wetting the thermometer
with common spirits, brought the mercury down five
or six degrees. Being lately at Cambridge, and men-
tioning this in conversation with Dr. Hadley, pro-
fessor of chemistry there, he proposed repeating the
experiments with ether, instead of common spirits as
the ether is much quicker in evaporation. We ac-
cordingly went to his chamber, where he had both
ether and a thermometer. By dipping first the ball
of the thermometer into the ether, it appeared that
the ether was precisely of the same temperament
with the thermometer, which stood then at 65 ; for
it made no alteration in the height of the little col-
umn of mercury. But when the thermometer was
taken out of the ether, and the ether, with which the

1758] Benjamin Franklin 231

ball was wet, began to evaporate, the mercury sunk
several degrees. The wetting was then repeated by
a feather that had been dipped into the ether, when
the mercury sunk still lower.

We continued this operation, one of us wetting
the ball, and another of the company blowing on it
with the bellows to quicken the evaporation, the
mercury sinking all the time, till it came down to 7,
which is 25 degrees below the freezing point, when we
left off. Soon after it passed the freezing point a
thin coat of ice began to cover the ball. Whether
this was water collected and condensed by the cold-
ness of the ball from the moisture in the air or from
our breath; or whether the feather, when dipped
into the ether, might not sometimes go through it
and bring up some of the water that was under it, I
am not certain ; perhaps all might contribute. The
ice continued increasing till we ended the experi-
ment, when it appeared near a quarter of an inch
thick all over the ball, with a number of small spic-
ula, pointing outwards. From this experiment one
may see the possibility of freezing a man to death on
a warm summer's day, if he were to stand in a pas-
sage through which the wind blew briskly, and to be
wet frequently with ether, a spirit that is more in-
flammable than brandy or common spirits of wine.

It is but within these few years that the European
philosophers seem to have known this power in na-
ture, of cooling bodies by evaporation. But in the
east they have long been acquainted with it. A
friend tells me there is a passage in Bernier's Travels
through Indostan, written near one hundred years

232 The Works of [1758

ago, that mentions it as a practice (in travelling over
dry deserts in that hot climate) to carry water in
flasks wrapped in wet woollen cloths, and hung on
the shady side of the camel, or carriage, but in the
free air; whereby, as the cloths gradually grow drier,
the water contained in the flasks is made cool. They
have likewise a kind of earthen pots, unglazed,
which let the water gradually and slowly ooze
through their pores, so as to keep the outside a little
wet, notwithstanding the continual evaporation,
which gives great coldness to the vessel and the
water contained in it. Even our common sailors
seem to have had some notion of this property; for
I remember that, being at sea when I was a youth,
I observed one of the sailors, during a calm in the
night, often wetting his finger in his mouth, and then
holding it up in the air, to discover, as he said, if the
air had any motion, and from which side it came;
and this he expected to do by finding one side of his
finger grow suddenly cold, and from that side he
should look for the next wind ; which I then laughed
at as a fancy.

May not several phenomena hitherto unconsid-
ered or unaccounted for be explained by this prop-
erty? During the hot Sunday at Philadelphia, in
June, 1750, when the thermometer was up at 100
in the shade, I sat in my chamber without exercise,
only reading or writing, with no other clothes on than
a shirt and a pair of long linen drawers, the windows
all open, and a brisk wind blowing through the
house ; the sweat ran off the backs of my hands, and
my shirt was often so wet as to induce me to call for

1758] Benjamin Franklin 233

dry ones to put on. In this situation, one might
have suspected that the natural heat of the body,
96, added to the heat of the air, 100, should jointly
have created or produced a much greater degree of
heat in the body; but the fact was that my body
never grew so hot as the air that surrounded it, or
the inanimate bodies immersed in the same air. For
I remember well that the desk, when I laid my arm
upon it; a chair, when I sat down in it; and a dry
shirt out of the drawer, when I put it on — all felt
exceeding warm to me, as if they had been warmed
before a fire. And I suppose a dead body would
have acquired the temperature of the air, though a
living one, by continual sweating, and by the eva-
poration of that sweat, was kept cold.

May not this be a reason why our reapers in Penn-
sylvania, working in the open field in the clear hot
sunshine common in our harvest- time,1 find them-
selves well able to go through that labor without
being much incommoded by the heat, while they
continue to sweat, and while they supply matter for
keeping up that sweat, by drinking frequently of a
thin evaporable liquor, water mixed with rum ; but,
if the sweat stops, they drop, and sometimes die sud-
denly, if a sweating is not again brought on by drink-
ing that liquor, or, as some rather choose in that
case, a kind of hot punch, made with water, mixed
with honey, and a considerable proportion of vinegar?

1 Pennsylvania is in about lat. 40, and the sun, of course, about 1 2
degrees higher, and therefore much hotter, than in England. Their
harvest is about the end of June or beginning of July, when the sun is
nearly at the highest. — F.

234 The Works of [1758

May there not be in negroes a quicker evapora-
tion of the perspirable matter from their skins and
lungs, which, by cooling them more, enables them to
bear the sun's heat better than whites do? (if that is
a fact, as it is said to be ; for the alleged necessity of
having negroes rather than whites to work in the
West India fields is founded upon it,) though the
color of their skins would otherwise make them more
sensible of the sun's heat, since black cloth heats
much sooner and more, in the sun, than white cloth.
I am persuaded, from several instances happening
within my knowledge, that they do not bear cold
weather so well as the whites ; they will perish when
exposed to a less degree of it, and are more apt to
have their limbs frost-bitten; and may not this be
from the same cause?

Would not the earth grow much hotter under the
summer sun if a constant evaporation from its sur-
face, greater as the sun shines stronger, did not, by
tending to cool it, balance, in some degree, the
warmer effects of the sun's rays? Is it not owing to
the constant evaporation from the surface of every
leaf, that trees, though shone on by the sun, are
always, even the leaves themselves, cool to our
sense? at least much cooler than they would other-
wise be? May it not be owing to this that, fanning
ourselves when warm, does really cool us, though the
air is itself warm that we drive with the fan upon
our faces? For the atmosphere round and next to
our bodies, having imbibed as much of the perspired
vapor as it can well contain, receives no more, and
the evaporation is therefore checked and retarded

1758] Benjamin Franklin 235

till we drive away that atmosphere, and bring drier
air in its place, that will receive the vapor, and
thereby facilitate and increase the evaporation. Cer-
tain it is that mere blowing of air on a dry body does
not cool it, as any one may satisfy himself by blowing
with a bellows on the dry ball of a thermometer ; the
mercury will not fall; if it moves at all, it rather
rises, as being warmed by the friction of the air on
its surface.

To these queries of imagination I will only add
one practical observation, — that wherever it is
thought proper to give ease in cases of painful in-
flammation in the flesh (as from burnings or the
like) by cooling the part, linen cloths wet with spirit
and applied to the part inflamed, will produce the
coolness required, better than if wet with water, and
will continue it longer. For water, though cold
when first applied, will soon acquire warmth from
the flesh, as it does not evaporate fast enough; but
the cloths wet with spirit will continue cold as long
as any spirit is left to keep up the evaporation, the
parts warmed escaping as soon as they are warmed,
and carrying off the heat with them. I am, Sir, &c,

B. Franklin.

CLXXV

TO MRS. DEBORAH FRANKLIN

London, 6 September, 1758.

My Dear Child: — In mine of June ioth, by the
Mercury, Captain Robinson, I mentioned our having

236 The Works of [1758

been at Cambridge. We stayed there a week, being
entertained with great kindness by the principal
people, and shown all the curiosities of the place;
and returning by another road to see more of the
country, we came again to London. I found the
journey advantageous to my health, increasing both
my health and spirits, and therefore, as all the great
folks were out of town, and public business at a
stand, I the more easily prevailed with myself to
take another journey, and accept of the invitation
we had, to be again at Cambridge at the Commence-
ment, the beginning of July. We went accordingly,
were present at all the ceremonies, dined every day
in their halls, and my vanity was not a little grati-
fied by the particular regard shown me by the chan-
cellor and vice-chancellor of the University and the
heads of colleges.

After the Commencement we went from Cam-
bridge through Huntingdonshire into Northumber-
landshire, and at Wellingborough, on inquiry, we
found still living Mary Fisher, whose maiden name
was Franklin, daughter and only child of Thomas
Franklin, my father's eldest brother. She is five
years older than sister Dowse, and remembers her
going away with my father and his then wife and
two other children to New England, about the year
1685. We have had no correspondence with her
since my uncle Benjamin's death, now near thirty
years. I knew she had lived at Wellingborough, and
had married there to one Mr. Richard Fisher, a
grazier and tanner, about fifty years ago, but did not
expect to see either of them alive, so inquired for

1758] Benjamin Franklin 237

their posterity. I was directed to their house, and
we found them both alive, but weak with age, very
glad however to see us. She seems to have been a
very smart, sensible woman. They are wealthy,
have left off business, and live comfortably. They
have had only one child, a daughter, who died when
about thirty years of age, unmarried. She gave me
several of my uncle Benjamin's letters to her, and
acquainted me where the other remains of the fam-
ily lived, of which I have, since my return to London,
found out a daughter of my father's only sister, very
old, and never married. She is a good, clever woman,
but poor, though vastly contented with her situation,
and very cheerful. The others are in different parts
of the country. I intend to visit them, but they
were too much out of our tour in that journey.

From Wellingborough we went to Ecton, about
three or four miles, being the village where my
father was born, and where his father, grandfather,
and great-grandfather had lived, and how many of
the family before them we know not. We went first
to see the old house and grounds ; they came to Mr.
Fisher with his wife, and after letting them for some
years, finding his rent something ill paid, he sold
them. The land is now added to another farm, and
a school kept in the house. It is a decayed old
stone building, but still known by the name of
Franklin House. Thence we went to visit the rector
of the parish, who lives close by the church, a very
ancient building. He entertained us very kindly,
and showed us the old church register, in which were
the births, marriages, and burials of our ancestors

238 The Works of [1758

for two hundred years, as early as his book began,
His wife, a good-natured, chatty old lady (grand-
daughter of the famous Archdeacon Palmer, who
formerly had that parish, and lived there), remem-
bered a great deal about the family; carried us out
into the churchyard, and showed us several of their
gravestones, which were so covered with moss that
we could not read the letters, till she ordered a hard
brush and basin of water, with which Peter scoured
them clean, and then Billy copied them. She enter-
tained and diverted us highly with stories of Thomas
Franklin, Mrs. Fisher's father, who was a convey-
ancer, something of a lawyer, clerk of the county
courts, and clerk to the Archdeacon in his visita-
tions; a very leading man in all county affairs, and
much employed in public business. He set on foot
a subscription for erecting chimes in their steeple,
and completed it, and we heard them play. He
found out an easy method of saving their village
meadows from being drowned, as they used to be
sometimes by the river, which method is still in
being; but, when first proposed, nobody could con-
ceive how it could be; "but, however," they said,
"if Franklin says he knows how to do it, it will be
done." His advice and opinion were sought for on
all occasions by all sorts of people, and he was looked
upon, she said, by some as something of a conjurer.
He died just four years before I was born, on the
same day of the same month.

Since our return to London, I have had a kind
letter from cousin Fisher, and another from the rec-
tor, which I send you.

1758] Benjamin Franklin 239

From Ecton we went to Northampton, where we
stayed part of the day ; then went to Coventry, and
from thence to Birmingham. Here, upon inquiry,
we soon found out yours, and cousin Wilkinson's,
and cousin Cash's relations. First, we found out
one of the Cashes, and he went with us to Rebecca
Flint's, where we saw her and her husband. She
is a turner and he a buttonmaker; they have no
children; were very glad to see any person that
knew their sister Wilkinson; told us what letters
they had received, and showed us some of them;
and even showed us that they had, out of respect,
preserved a keg, in which they had received a present
of some sturgeon. They sent for their brother,
Joshua North, who came with his wife immediately
to see us; he is a turner also, and has six children;
a lively, active man. Mrs. Flint desired me to tell
her sister, that they live still in the old house she
left them in, which I think she says was their father's.
From thence Mr. North went with us to your cousin
Benjamin's.1

CLXXVI

TO HUGH ROBERTS

London, 16 September, 1758.

Dear Friend: — Your kind letter of June ist gave
me great pleasure. I thank you for the concern you
express about my health, which at present seems
tolerably confirmed by my late journey into different

1 The remainder of the letter is missing.

240 The Works of [1758

parts of the kingdom, and have been highly enter-
taining as well as useful to me. Your visits to my
little family in my absence are very obliging, and I
hope you will be so good as to continue them. Your
remark on the thistle and the Scotch motto made
us very merry, as well as your string of puns. You
will allow me to claim a little merit or demerit in the
last, as having had some hand in making you a pun-
ster; but the wit of the first is keen, and all your
own.

Two of the former members of the Junto, you tell
me, are departed this life, Potts and Parsons. Odd
characters both of them. Parsons a wise man, that
often acted foolishly ; Potts a wit, that seldom acted
wisely. If enough were the means to make a man
happy, one had always the means of happiness, with-
out ever enjoying the thing; the other had always
the thing, without ever possessing the means. Par-
sons, even in his prosperity, always fretting; Potts,
in the midst of his poverty, ever laughing. It
seems, then, that happiness in this life rather de-
pends on internals than externals ; and that, besides
the natural effects of wisdom and virtue, vice and
folly, there is such a thing as a happy or an unhappy
constitution. They were both our friends, and loved
us. So, peace to their shades. They had their vir-
tues as well as their foibles; they were both honest
men, and that alone, as the world goes, is one of the
greatest of characters. They were old acquaint-
ances, in whose company I formerly enjoyed a great
deal of pleasure and I cannot think of losing them
without concern and regret.

1758] Benjamin Franklin 241

I shall, as you suppose, look on every opportunity
you give me of doing you service, as a favor, because
it will afford me pleasure. I know how to make
you ample returns for such favors, by giving you
the pleasure of building me a house. You may do
it without losing any of your own time ; it will only
take some part of that you now spend in other
folks' business. It is only jumping out of their
waters into mine.

I am grieved for our friend Syng's loss. You and
I, who esteem him, and have valuable sons our-
selves, can sympathize with him sincerely. I hope
yours is perfectly recovered, for your sake as well as
for his own. I wish he may be, in every respect, as
good and as useful as his father. I need not wish
him more; and can only add that I am, with great
esteem, dear friend, yours affectionately,

B. Franklin.
P. S. — I rejoice to hear of the prosperity of the
Hospital, and send the wafers. I do not quite like
your absenting yourself from that good old club, the
Junto. Your more frequent presence might be a
means of keeping them from being all engaged in
measures not the best for the public welfare. I ex-
hort you, therefore, to return to your duty ; and, as
the Indians say, to confirm my words, I send you a
Birmingham tile. I thought the neatness of the
figures would please you.

VOL. III.— 16.

242 The Works of [1758

CLXXVII

TO MRS. JANE MECOM

London, 16 September, 1758.

Dear Sister: — I received your favor of June 17th.
I wonder you have had no letter from me since my
being in England. I have wrote you at least two,
and I think a third before this, and, what was next
to waiting on you in person, sent you my picture.
In June last I sent Benny a trunk of books, and
wrote to him. I hope they are come to hand, and
that he meets with encouragement in his business,
I congratulate you on the conquest of Cape Breton,
and hope, as your people took it by praying the
first time, you will now pray that it may never be
given up again, which you then forgot. Billy is
well, but in the country. I left him at Tunbridge
Wells where we spent a fortnight, and he is now gone
with some company to see Portsmouth. We have
been together over a great part of England this
summer, and, among other places, visited the town
our father was born in, and found some relations in
that part of the country still living.

Our cousin Jane Franklin, daughter of our uncle
John, died about a year ago. We saw her husband,
Robert Page, who gave us some old letters to his
wife from uncle Benjamin. In one of them, dated
Boston, July 4, 1723, he writes that your uncle
Josiah has a daughter Jane, about twelve years old,
a good-humored child. So keep up to your charac-
ter, and don't be angry when you have no letters.
In a little book he sent her, called None but Christ,

1758] Benjamin Franklin 243

he wrote an acrostic on her name, which for name-
sake's sake, as well as the good advice it contains, I
transcribe and send you, viz. :

Illuminated from on high,
And shining brightly in your sphere,
Ne'er faint, but keep a steady eye,
Expecting endless pleasures there.

Flee vice as you'd a serpent flee;
Raise faith and hope three stories higher,
And let Christ's endless love to thee
Ne'er cease to make thy love aspire.

Kindness of heart by words express,
Let your obedience be sincere,
In prayer and praise your God address,
Nor cease, till he can cease to hear.

After professing truly that I had a great esteem
and veneration for the pious author, permit me a
little to play the commentator and critic on these
lines. The meaning of three stories higher seems
somewhat obscure. You are to understand, then,
that faith, hope, and charity have been called the
three steps of Jacob's ladder, reaching from earth to
heaven; our author calls them stories, likening reli-
gion to a building, and these are the three stories of
the Christian edifice. Thus improvement in religion
is called building up and edification. Faith is, then,
the ground floor; hope is up one pair of stairs. My
dear beloved Jenny, don't delight so much to dwell,
in those lower rooms, but get as fast as you can into
the garret, for in truth the best room in the house is
charity. For my part, I wish the house was turned

244 The Works of [1758

upside down ; it is so difficult (when one is fat) to go
up stairs; and not only so, but I imagine hope and
faith may be more firmly built upon charity, than
charity upon faith and hope. However that may be,
I think it the better reading to say —

Raise faith and hope one story higher.

Correct it boldly, and I'll support the alteration;

for, when you are up two stories already, if you raise

your building three stories higher you will make

five in all, which is two more than there should be,

you expose your upper rooms more to the winds and

storms; and, besides, I am afraid the foundation

will hardly bear them, unless indeed you build with

such light stuff as straw and stubble, and that, you

know, won't stand fire. Again, where the author

says —

Kindness of heart by words express,

strike out words, and put in deeds. The world is too
full of compliments already. They are the rank
growth of every soil, and choke the good plants of
benevolence and beneficence ; nor do I pretend to be
the first in this comparison of words and actions to
plants; you may remember an ancient poet, whose
works we have all studied and copied at school long

ago:

A man of words and not of deeds
Is like a garden full of weeds.

It is a pity that good works, among some sorts of
people, are so little valued, and good words admired
in their stead; I mean seemingly pious discourses,

1759] Benjamin Franklin 245

instead of humane, benevolent actions. Those they
almost put out of countenance, by calling mo-
rality rotten morality, righteousness ragged right-
eousness, and even filthy rags. So much by way of
commentary.

My wife will let you see my letter, containing an
account of our travels, which I would have you read
to sister Dowse, and give my love to her. I have
no thoughts of returning till next year, and then may
possibly have the pleasure of seeing you and yours;
taking Boston in my way home. My love to brother
and all your children, concludes at this time from,
dear Jenny, your affectionate brother,

B. Franklin.

CLXXVIII

TO MISS MARY STEVENSON

Craven Street, 4 May, 1759.

My Dear Child: — Hearing that you were in the
Park last Sunday, I hoped for the pleasure of seeing
you yesterday at the oratorio in the Foundling Hos-
pital; but, though I looked with all the eyes I had,
not excepting even those I carry in my pocket, I
could not find you; and this morning your good
mamma has received a line from you, by which we
learn that you are returned to Wanstead.

It is long since you heard from me, though not a day
passes in which I do not think of you with the same
affectionate regard and esteem I ever had for you.
My not writing is partly owing to an inexcusable

246 The Works of [1760

indolence, which I find grows upon me as I grow
in years, and partly to an expectation I have
had, from week to week, of making a little journey
into Essex, in which I intended to call at Wanstead,
and promised to myself the pleasure of seeing you
there. I have now fixed this day se'nnight for that
journey, and propose to take Mrs. Stevenson out
with me, leave her with you till the next day, and
call for her on Saturday in my return. Let me know
by a line if you think any thing may make such a
visit from us at that time improper or inconvenient.
Present my sincerest respects to Mrs. Tickell, and
believe me ever, dear Polly, your truly affectionate
friend and humble servant,

B. Franklin.
P. S. — We have company that dine with us to-day,
and your careful mamma, being busied about many
things, cannot write. Will did not see you in the
Park. Mr. Hunter and his sister are both gone.
God prosper their voyage. My compliments to Miss
Pitt.

CLXXIX

TO LORD KAMES *

London, 3 January, 1760.

My Dear Lord: — You have been pleased kindly
to desire to have all my publications. I had daily

1 Henry Home, better known by his title of Lord Kames, which he
assumed, according to the custom of Scotland, on being appointed in
1752 a judge of the Court of Session. He was born in Berwick County
in 1696, and was educated to the profession of the law, in which he

1760] Benjamin Franklin 247

expectations of procuring some of them from a
friend to whom I formerly sent them when I was in
America, and postponed writing to you, till I should
obtain them; but at length he tells me he cannot
find them; very mortifying this to an author, that
his works should so soon be lost ! So I can only send
you my Observations on the Peopling of Countries,
which happens to have been reprinted here; The
Description of the Pennsylvania Fire-place, a machine
of my contriving ; and some little sketches that have
been printed in the Grand Magazine, which I should
hardly own, did I not know that your friendly par-
tiality would make them seem at least tolerable.

How unfortunate I was, that I did not press you
and Lady Karnes more strongly to favor us with
your company farther. How much more agreeable
would our journey have been, if we could have en-
joyed you as far as York. We could have beguiled
the way, by discoursing on a thousand things, that
now we may never have an opportunity of consider-
ing together; for conversation warms the mind,

became distinguished as an advocate and a judge. But his greatest
eminence was derived from his literary productions, which were num-
erous, and some of them celebrated, particularly his Elements of Criti-
cism, published in 1762; his Sketches of the History of Man, in 1773;
and a small work published in 1761, entitled An Introduction to the
Art of Thinking, which was originally compiled for the use of his own
children. It is in two parts, the first a series of moral maxims, the
second illustrations by little apologues, invented for the purpose; and
anecdotes of different kinds, many of them, however, but little adapted
to the end. Dr. Franklin, in a visit to Scotland in 1759, with his son
William, passed some time with Lord Karnes, and a friendship grew
out of their intimacy which lasted during their lives. Lord Karnes
died December 27, 1782, in the eighty-seventh year of his age. —
W. T. F.

248 The Works of [1760

enlivens the imagination, and is continually starting
fresh game, that is immediately pursued and taken,
and which would never have occurred in the duller
intercourse of epistolary correspondence. So that
whenever I reflect on the great pleasure and advan-
tage I received from the free communication of sen-
timent, in the conversation we had at Karnes, and
in the agreeable little rides to the Tweed side, I shall
for ever regret our premature parting.

No one can more sincerely rejoice than I do on the
reduction of Canada ; and this is not merely as I am
a colonist, but as I am a Briton. I have long been
of opinion, that the foundations of the future grandeur
and stability of the British empire lie in America;
and though, like other foundations, they are low
and little now, they are, nevertheless, broad and
strong enough to support the greatest political struc-
ture that human wisdom ever yet erected. I am,
therefore, by no means for restoring Canada. If we
keep it, all the country from the St. Lawrence to the
Mississippi will in another century be filled with
British people. Britain itself will become vastly
more populous, by the immense increase of its com-
merce; the Atlantic sea will be covered with your
trading ships; and your naval power, thence con-
tinually increasing, will extend your influence round
the whole globe, and awe the world! If the French
remain in Canada, they will continually harass our
colonies by the Indians, and impede if not prevent
their growth ; your progress to greatness will at best
be slow, and give room for many accidents that may
for ever prevent it. But I refrain, for I see you

1760] Benjamin Franklin 249

begin to think my notions extravagant, and look
upon them as the ravings of a mad prophet.

Your Lordship's kind offer of Penn's picture is
extremely obliging. But, were it certainly his pic-
ture, it would be too valuable a curiosity for me to
think of accepting it. I should only desire the favor
of leave to take a copy of it. I could wish to know
the history of the picture before it came into your
hands, and the grounds for supposing it his. I have
at present some doubts about it; first, because the
primitive Quakers declared against pictures as a
vain expense; a man's suffering his portrait to be
taken was conceived as pride; and I think to this
day it is very little practised among them. Then, it
is on a board ; and I imagine the practice of painting
portraits on boards did not come down so low as
Penn's time; but of this I am not certain. My other
reason is an anecdote I have heard, viz., that when
old Lord Cobham was adorning his gardens at Stow
with busts of famous men, he made inquiry of the
family for the picture of William Penn, in order to
get a bust formed from it, but could find none ; that
Sylvanus Bevan, an old Quaker apothecary, remark-
able for the notice he takes of countenances, and a
knack he has of cutting in ivory strong likenesses of
persons he has once seen, hearing of Lord Cobham 's
desire, set himself to recollect Penn's face, with
which he had been well acquainted; and cut a little
bust of him in ivory, which he sent to Lord Cobham,
without any letter or notice that it was Penn's. But
my Lord, who had personally known Penn, on seeing
it, immediately cried out, "Whence comes this? It

250 The Works of [1760

is William Penn himself ! ' ' And from this little bust,
they say, the large one in the gardens was formed.

I doubt, too, whether the whisker was not quite
out of use at the time when Penn must have been of
an age appearing in the face of that picture. And
yet, notwithstanding these reasons, I am not with-
out some hope that it may be his; because I know
some eminent Quakers have had their pictures pri-
vately drawn and deposited with trusty friends ; and
know, also, that there is extant in Philadelphia a
very good picture of Mrs. Penn, his last wife. After
all, I own I have a strong desire to be satisfied con-
cerning this picture ; and as Bevan is yet living here,
and some other old Quakers that remember William
Penn, who died but 17 18, I would wish to have it
sent to me carefully packed up in a box by the
wagon, (for I would not trust it by sea), that I may
obtain their opinion. The charges I shall very
cheerfully pay; and if it proves to be Penn's picture,
I shall be greatly obliged to your Lordship for leave
to take a copy of it, and will carefully return the
original.1

My son joins with me in the most respectful com-
pliments to you and Lady Karnes. Our conversa-
tion, till we came to York, was chiefly a recollection
of what we had seen and heard, the pleasures we had
enjoyed, and the kindnesses we had received, in
Scotland, and how far that country had exceeded
our expectations. On the whole, I must say, I think
the time we spent there was six weeks of the densest
happiness I have met with in any part of my life;

1 Time has vindicated Franklin's doubts about this picture. — Ed.

1760] Benjamin Franklin 251

and the agreeable and instructive society we found
there in such plenty has left so pleasing an impres-
sion on my memory, that, did not strong connexions
draw me elsewhere, I believe Scotland would be the
country I should choose to spend the remainder of
my days in. I have the honor to be, with the sin-
cerest esteem and affection, my dear Lord, &c.,

B. Franklin.

CLXXX

TO JOHN HUGHES

London, 7 January, 1760.

Dear Sir: — On my return from our northern
journey I found several of your obliging favors, for
which please to accept my hearty thanks. There
has been for some time a talk of peace, and probably
we should have had one this winter, if the King of
Prussia's late misfortunes had not given the enemy
fresh spirits, and encouraged them to try their luck
another campaign, and exert all their remaining
strength, in hopes of treating with Hanover in their
hands. If this should be the case, possibly most of
our advantages may be given up again at the treaty,
and some among our great men begin already to pre-
pare the minds of people for this, by discoursing that
to keep Canada would draw on us the envy of other
powers, and occasion a confederation against us;
that the country is too large for us to people; not
worth possessing, and the like. These notions I am
every day and every hour combating, and I think

252 The Works of [1760

not without some success. The event God only
knows. The argument that seems to have the prin-
cipal weight is, that, in case of another war, if we
keep possession of Canada, the nation will save two
or three millions a year, now spent in defending the
American colonies, and be so much the stronger in
Europe, by the addition of the troops now employed
on that side of the water. To this I add, that the
colonies would thrive and increase in a much greater
degree, and that a vast additional demand would
arise for British manufactures to supply so great an
extent of Indian territory, with many other topics,
which I urge occasionally, according to the company
I happen into, or the persons I address. And, on
the whole, I natter myself that my being here at
this time may be of some service to the general
interest of America.

The acts of last year have all come to hand, but
not all in a condition to be laid before the King for
his approbation, as the governor's proposed amend-
ments are tacked to them, and no distinction as to
which were agreed to, or whether any or none; so
that, in some of the most material acts, there is no
ascertaining what is intended to be law or what not.
This mistake was fallen into, I suppose, from the
late practice of sending home the bills refused by the
governor, with his proposed amendments certified
by the clerk of the House, and under the great seal,
that the true state of such refused bills might be
known here; but, when bills are passed into laws,
the copies to be sent here should be taken from the
Rolls Office after the laws are deposited there, and

1760] Benjamin Franklin 253

certified by the Master of the Rolls to be true copies ;
and then the governor, under the great seal, certifies
that the Master of the Rolls is such an officer, and
that credit ought to be given to his certificate; or
otherwise that those copies are true copies, agree-
able to the laws passed by him as governor. But
the certificates with these laws only express that
such bills were sent up to him for his assent on such
a day; that he proposed the annexed amendment
on such a day, and on such a day he passed the bills
without saying a word whether the amendments
were agreed to or not. Indeed, by the part of the
minutes which came l

CLXXXI

TO MRS. DEBORAH FRANKLIN

London, 5 March, 1760.

My Dear Child: — I received the enclosed some
time since from Mr. Strahan. I afterwards spent an
evening in conversation with him on the subject.
He was very urgent with me to stay in England, and
prevail with you to remove hither with Sally. He
proposed several advantageous schemes to me,
which appeared reasonably founded. His family is
a very agreeable one: Mrs. Strahan, a sensible and
good woman, the children of amiable characters, and
particularly the young man, who is sober, ingenious,
and industrious, and a desirable person. In point

1 The remainder of the letter is lost.

254 The Works of [1760

of circumstances there can be no objection, Mr.
Strahan being in such a way as to lay up a thousand
pounds every year from the profits of his business,
after maintaining his family and paying all charges.
I gave him, however, two reasons why I could not
think of removing hither: one, my affection to Penn-
sylvania, and long established friendships and other
connexions there; the other, your invincible aver-
sion to crossing the seas. And without removing
hither, I could not think of parting with my daugh-
ter to such a distance. I thanked him for the regard
shown to us in the proposal, but gave him no expec-
tation that I should forward the letters. So you are
at liberty to answer or not, just as you think proper.
Let me, however, know your sentiments. You need
not deliver the letter to Sally, if you do not think it
proper.

My best respects to Mr. Hughes, Mr. Bartram,
and all inquiring friends. I am your ever loving

husband,

B. Franklin.

P. S. — I have wrote several letters to you lately,
but can now hardly tell by what ships.

CLXXXII

TO MISS MARY STEVENSON

Craven Street, i May, 1760.

I embrace, most gladly, my dear friend's proposal
of a subject for our future correspondence ; not only

1760] Benjamin Franklin 255

as it will occasion my hearing from her more fre-
quently, but as it will lay me under a necessity of
improving my own knowledge, that I may be better
able to assist in her improvement. I only fear my
necessary business and journeys, with the natural
indolence of an old man, will make me too unpunc-
tual a correspondent. For this I must hope some
indulgence. But why will you, by the cultivation of
your mind, make yourself still more amiable, and a
more desirable companion for a man of understand-
ing, when you are determined, as I hear, to live
single? If we enter, as you propose, into moral as
well as natural philosophy, I fancy, when I have
established my authority as a tutor, I shall take upon
me to lecture you a little on the chapter of duty.

But, to be serious, our easiest mode of proceeding,
I think, will be for you to read some books that I
may recommend to you; and, in the course of your
reading, whatever occurs that you do not thor-
oughly apprehend, or that you clearly conceive and
find pleasure in, may occasion either some questions
for further information, or some observations that
show how far you are satisfied and pleased with your
author. These will furnish matter for your letters
to me, and, in consequence, mine also to you.

Let me know, then, what books you have already
perused on the subject intended, that I may the
better judge what to advise for your next reading.
And believe me ever, my dear good girl, your affec-
tionate friend and servant,

B. Franklin.

256 The Works of [1760

CLXXXIII

TO LORD KAMES

London, 3 May, 1760.

My Dear Lord: — I have endeavoured to comply
with your request in writing something on the pres-
ent situation of our affairs in America, in order to
give more correct notions of the British interest
with regard to the colonies, than those I found many
sensible men possessed of. Enclosed you have the
production, such as it is. I wish it may, in any
degree, be of service to the public. I shall at least
hope this from it, for my own part, that you will
consider it as a letter from me to you, and take its
length as some excuse for being so long a coming.1

I am now reading with great pleasure and im-
provement your excellent work, The Principles of
Equity. It will be of the greatest advantage to the
judges in our colonies, not only in those which have
courts of chancery, but also in those which, having
no such courts, are obliged to mix equity with com-
mon law. It will be of more service to the colony
judges, as few of them have been bred to the law. I
have sent a book to a particular friend, one of the
judges of the Supreme Court in Pennsylvania.

I will shortly send you a copy of the "Chapter"
you are pleased to mention in so obliging a manner ;
and shall be extremely obliged in receiving a copy of
the collection of Maxims for the Conduct of Life,

1 This was probably the tract, entitled The Interest of Great Britain
Considered, which was first published in 1760.

1760] Benjamin Franklin 257

which you are preparing for the use of your children.
I purpose likewise a little work for the benefit of
youth, to be called The Art of Virtue. From the
title I think you will hardly conjecture what the
nature of such a book may be. I must therefore
explain it a little. Many people lead bad lives that
would gladly lead good ones, but do not know how to
make the change. They have frequently resolved
and endeavoured it; but in vain, because their en-
deavours have not been properly conducted. To
expect people to be good, to be just, to be temperate,
&c, without showing them how they should become
so, seems like the ineffectual charity mentioned by
the Apostle, which consists in saying to the hungry,
the cold, and the naked, "Be ye fed, be ye warmed,
be ye clothed," without showing them how they
should get food, fire, or clothing.

Most people have naturally some virtues, but none
have naturally all the virtues. To acquire those
that are wanting, and secure what we acquire, as well
as those we have naturally, is as properly an art as
painting, navigation, or architecture. If a man
would become a painter, navigator, or architect, it
is not enough that he is advised to be one, that he
is convinced by the arguments of his adviser that
it would be for his advantage to be one, and that
he resolves to be one, but he must also be taught
the principles of the art, be shown all the methods
of working, and how to acquire the habits of using
properly all the instruments; and thus regularly
and gradually he arrives, by practice, at some per-
fection in the art. If he does not proceed thus, he

VOL. 111. — 17.

258 The Works of [1760

is apt to meet with difficulties that discourage him,
and make him drop the pursuit.

My Art of Virtue has also its instruments, and
teaches the manner of using them. Christians are
directed to have faith in Christ, as the effectual
means of obtaining the change they desire. It may,
when sufficiently strong, be effectual with many; for
a full opinion, that a teacher is infinitely wise, good,
and powerful, and that he will certainly reward and
punish the obedient and disobedient, must give
great weight to his precepts, and make them much
more attended to by his disciples. But many have
this faith in so weak a degree, that it does not pro-
duce the effect. Our Art of Virtue may, therefore,
be of great service to those whose faith is unhappily
not so strong, and may come in aid of its weakness.
Such as are naturally well disposed, and have been
so carefully educated, as that good habits have been
early established, and bad ones prevented, have less
need of this art; but all may be more or less bene-
fited by it. It is, in short, to be adapted for univer-
sal use. I imagine what I have now been writing
will seem to savour of great presumption. I must
therefore speedily finish my little piece, and com-
municate the manuscript to you, that you may judge
whether it is possible to make good such pretensions.
I shall at the same time hope for the benefit of your
corrections. I am, &c,

B. Franklin.

1760] Benjamin Franklin 259

CLXXXIV

TO PETER FRANKLIN1

London, 7 May, 1760.

It has, indeed, as you observe, been the

opinion of some very great naturalists, that the sea
is salt only from the dissolution of mineral or rock
salt, which its waters happened to meet with. But
this opinion takes it for granted, that all water was
originally fresh, of which we can have no proof. I
own I am inclined to a different opinion, and rather
think all the water on this globe was originally salt,
and that the fresh water we find in springs and
rivers, is the produce of distillation. The sun raises
the vapors from the sea, which form clouds, and fall
in rain upon the land, and springs and rivers are
formed of that rain. As to the rock salt found in
mines, I conceive that, instead of communicating its
saltness to the sea, it is itself drawn from the sea,
and that of course the sea is now fresher than it was
originally. This is only another effect of nature's
distillery, and might be performed various ways.

It is evident from the quantities of sea-shells and
the bones and teeth of fishes found in high lands,
that the sea has formerly covered them. Then,
either the sea has been higher than it now is, and has
fallen away from those high lands, or they have been
lower than they are, and were lifted up out of the
water to their present height, by some internal
mighty force, such as we still feel some remains of,

1 An elder brother of the author, who resided many years at New-
port, in Rhode Island.

260 The Works of [1760

when whole continents are moved by earthquakes.
In either case, it may be supposed that large hollows,
or valleys among hills, might be left filled with sea-
water, which evaporating, and the fluid part drying
away in a course of years, would leave the salt cover-
ing the bottom ; and that salt, coming afterwards to
be covered with earth from the neighbouring hills,
could only be found by digging through that earth.
Or, as we know from their effects, that there are deep,
fiery concerns under the earth, and even under the
sea, if at any time the sea leaks into any of them,
the fluid parts of the water must evaporate from
that heat, and pass off through some volcano, while
the salt remains, and by degrees, and continual
accretion, becomes a great mass. Thus the cavern
may at length be filled, and the volcano connected
with it cease burning, as many it is said have done;
and future miners, penetrating such cavern, find
what we call a salt-mine. This is a fancy I had on
visiting the salt-mines at Norwich, with my son. I
send you a piece of the rock salt which he brought
up with him out of the mine. I am, &c,

B. Franklin.

CLXXXV

TO ALEXANDER SMALL, LONDON

12 May, 1760.

Dear Sir: — Agreeably to your request, I send
you my reasons for thinking that our northeast
storms in North America begin first, in point of

1760] Benjamin Franklin 261

time, in the southwest parts; that is to say, the air
in Georgia, the farthest of our colonies to the south-
west, begins to move southwesterly before the air
of Carolina, which is the next colony northeastward ;
the air of Carolina has the same motion before the
air of Virginia, which lies still more northeastward;
and so on northeasterly through Pennsylvania, New
York, New England, &c, quite to Newfoundland.

These northeast storms are generally very violent,
continue sometimes two or three days, and often do
considerable damage in the harbours along the coast.
They are attended with thick clouds and rain.

What first gave me this idea, was the following
circumstance. About twenty years ago, a few more
or less, I cannot from my memory be certain, we
were to have an eclipse of the moon at Philadelphia,
on a Friday evening, about nine o'clock. I intended
to observe it, but was prevented by a northeast
storm, which came on about seven, with thick clouds
as usual, that quite obscured the whole hemisphere.
Yet when the post brought us the Boston newspaper,
giving an account of the effects of the same storm in
those parts, I found the beginning of the eclipse had
been well observed there, though Boston lies north-
east of Philadelphia about four hundred miles. This
puzzled me, because the storm began with us so soon
as to prevent any observation, and, being a north-
east storm, I imagined it must have begun rather
sooner in places farther to the northeastward than
it did at Philadelphia. I therefore mentioned it in a
letter to my brother, who lived at Boston; and he
informed me the storm did not begin with them till

262 The Works of [1760

near eleven o'clock, so that they had a good observa-
tion of the eclipse; and upon comparing all the
other accounts I received from the several colonies,
of the time of beginning of the same storm, and,
since that, of other storms of the same kind, I found
the beginning to be always later the farther north-
eastward. I have not my notes with me here in
England, and cannot, from memory, say the propor-
tion of time to distance, but I think it is about an
hour to every hundred miles.

From thence I formed an idea of the cause of
these storms, which I would explain by a familiar
instance or two. Suppose a long canal of water
stopped at the end by a gate. The water is quite
at rest till the gate is open, then it begins to move
out through the gate; the water next the gate is
first in motion, and moves towards the gate; the
water next to that first water moves next, and so on
successively, till the water at the head of the canal
is in motion, which is last of all. In this case, all
the water moves indeed towards the gate, but the
successive times of beginning motion are the con-
trary way, viz., from the gate backwards to the head
of the canal. Again, suppose the air in a chamber
at rest, no current through the room till you make
a fire in the chimney. Immediately the air in the
chimney, being rarefied by the fire, rises; the air
next the chimney flows in to supply its place, mov-
ing towards the chimney; and, in consequence, the
rest of the air successively, quite back to the door.
Thus to produce our northeast storms, I suppose
some great heat and rarefaction of the air in or

1760] Benjamin Franklin 263

about the Gulf of Mexico; the air thence rising has
its place supplied by the next more northern, cooler,
and therefore denser and heavier air; that, being in
motion, is followed by the next more northern air,
&c, &c, in a successive current, to which current
our coast and inland ridge of mountains give the
direction of northeast, as they lie northeast and
southwest.

This I offer only as an hypothesis to account for
this particular fact; and perhaps, on farther exam-
ination, a better and truer may be found. I do not
suppose all storms generated in the same manner.
Our northwest thunder-gusts in America, I know are
not; but of them I have written my opinion fully
in a paper which you have seen. I am, &c,

B. Franklin.

CLXXXVI

TO MISS STEVENSON, AT WANSTEAD

Craven Street, 16 May, 1760.

I send my good girl the books I mentioned to her
last night. I beg her to accept of them as a small
mark of my esteem and friendship. They are writ-
ten in the familiar, easy manner, for which the
French are so remarkable ; and afford a good deal of
philosophic and practical knowledge, unembarrassed
with the dry mathematics used by more exact
reason ers, but which is apt to discourage young
beginners.

I would advise you to read with a pen in your

264 The Works of [1760

hand, and enter in a little book short hints of what
you find that is curious, or that may be useful; for
this will be the best method of imprinting such par-
ticulars in your memory, where they will be ready,
either for practice on some future occasion, if they
are matters of utility, or at least to adorn and im-
prove your conversation, if they are rather points of
curiosity. And as many of the terms of science are
such, as you cannot have met with in your common
reading, and may therefore be unacquainted with, I
think it would be well for you to have a good dic-
tionary at hand, to consult immediately when you
meet with a word you do not comprehend the pre-
cise meaning of. This may at first seem trouble-
some and interrupting; but it is a trouble that will
daily diminish, as you will daily find less and less
occasion for your dictionary, as you become more
acquainted with the terms; and in the mean time
you will read with more satisfaction, because with
more understanding.

When any point occurs, in which you would be
glad to have farther information than your book
affords you, I beg you would not in the least appre-
hend that I should think it a trouble to receive and
answer your questions. It will be a pleasure, and
no trouble. For though I may not be able, out of
my own little stock of knowledge, to afford you
what you require, I can easily direct you to the
books, where it may most readily be found. Adieu,
and believe me ever, my dear friend, yours affec-
tionately,

B. Franklin.

J76o] Benjamin Franklin 265

CLXXXVII

TO MISS MARY STEVENSON

Craven Street, ii June, 1760.

It is a very sensible question you ask, how the
air can affect the barometer, when its opening ap-
pears covered with wood? If indeed it was so
closely covered as to admit of no communication
of the outward air to the surface of the mercury,
the change of weight in the air could not possibly
affect it. But the least crevice is sufficient for the
purpose; a pinhole will do the business. And if
you could look behind the frame to which your
barometer is fixed, you would certainly find some
small opening.

There are indeed some barometers in which the
body of mercury at the lower end is contained in a
close leather bag, and so the air cannot come into
immediate contact with the mercury; yet the same
effect is produced. For, the leather being flexible,
when the bag is pressed by any additional weight of
air, it contracts, and the mercury is forced up into
the tube; when the air becomes lighter, and its
pressure less, the weight of the mercury prevails,
and it descends again into the bag.

Your observation on what you have lately read
concerning insects is very just and solid. Super-
ficial minds are apt to despise those who make that
part of the creation their study, as mere triflers;
but certainly the world has been much obliged to
them. Under the care and management of man,
the labors of the little silkworm afford employment

266 The Works of [1760

and subsistence to thousands of families, and be-
come an immense article of commerce. The bee, too,
yields us its delicious honey, and its wax useful to a
multitude of purposes. Another insect, it is said,
produces the cochineal, from which we have our rich
scarlet dye. The usefulness of the cantharides, or
Spanish flies, in medicine, is known to all, and thou-
sands owe their lives to that knowledge. By human
industry and observation, other properties of other
insects may possibly be hereafter discovered, and of
equal utility. A thorough acquaintance with the
nature of these little creatures may also enable man-
kind to prevent the increase of such as are noxious,
or secure us against the mischiefs they occasion.
These things doubtless your books make mention of;
I can only add a particular late instance which I had
from a Swedish gentleman of good credit. In the
green timber, intended for ship-building at the
King's yards in that country, a kind of worms were
found, which every year became more numerous and
more pernicious, so that the ships were greatly dam-
aged before they came into use. The King sent
Linnaeus, the great naturalist, from Stockholm, to
inquire into the affair, and see if the mischief was
capable of any remedy. He found, on examination,
that the worm was produced from a small egg, de-
posited in the little roughnesses on the surface of
the wood, by a particular kind of fly or beetle ; from
which the worm, as soon as it was hatched, began to
eat into the substance of the wood, and after some
time came out again a fly of the parent kind, and so
the species increased. The season in which the fly

1760] Benjamin Franklin 267

laid its eggs, Linnaeus knew to be about a fortnight (I
think) in the month of May, and at no other time in
the year. He therefore advised, that, some days
before that season, all the green timber should be
thrown into the water, and kept under water till the
season was over. Which being done by the King's
order, the flies, missing their usual nests, could not
increase; and the species was either destroyed or
went elsewhere; and the wood was effectually pre-
served; for, after the first year, it became too dry
and hard for their purpose.

There is, however, a prudent moderation to be
used in studies of this kind. The knowledge of na-
ture may be ornamental, and it may be useful; but
if, to attain an eminence in that, we neglect the
knowledge and practice of essential duties, we de-
serve reprehension. For there is no rank in natural
knowledge of equal dignity and importance with
that of being a good parent, a good child, a good
husband or wife, a good neighbour or friend, a good
subject or citizen — that is, in short, a good Christian.
Nicholas Gimcrack, therefore, who neglected the care
of his family, to pursue butterflies, was a just object
of ridicule, and we must give him up as fair game to
the satirist.

Adieu, my dear friend, and believe me ever
Yours affectionately,

B. Franklin.

268 The Works of [1760

CLXXXVIII

TO MRS. DEBORAH FRANKLIN

London, 27 June, 1760.

My Dear Child: — I wrote a line to you by the
packet to let you know we were well, and I promised
to write you fully by Captain Budden, and answer
all your letters, which I accordingly now sit down to
do. I am concerned that so much trouble should be
given you by idle reports concerning me. Be satis-
fied, my dear, that while I have my senses, and God
vouchsafes me his protection, I shall do nothing un-
worthy the character of an honest man, and one that
loves his family.

I have not yet seen Mr. Beatty, nor do I know
where to write to him. He forwarded your letter to
me from Ireland. The paragraph of your letter, in-
serted in the papers, related to the negro school. I
gave it to the gentlemen concerned, as it was a tes-
timony in favor of their pious design. But I did not
expect they would print it with your name. They
have since chosen me one of the Society, and I am
at present chairman for the current year. I enclose
you an account of their proceedings.1

1 This relates to a scheme which had been set on foot by the philan-
thropic Dr. Thomas Bray, who passed a large part of his life in per-
forming deeds of benevolence and charity. He became acquainted
at The Hague with M. D'Allone, who approved and favored his schemes.
M. D'Allone, during his lifetime, gave to Dr. Bray a considerable sum
of money, which was to be applied to the conversion of negroes in the
British Plantations, and at his death he left an additional sum of nine
hundred pounds for the same object. Dr. Bray formed an association
for the management and proper disposal of these funds. He died in
1730, and the same trust continued to be executed by a company of
gentlemen, called "Dr. Bray's Associates." Dr. Franklin was for
several years one of these associates.

1760] Benjamin Franklin 269

I did not receive the Prospect of Quebec, which you
mention that you sent me. Peter continues with
me, and behaves as well as I can expect, in a coun-
try where there are many occasions of spoiling ser-
vants, if they are ever so good. He has as few
faults as most of them, and I see with only one eye
and hear only with one ear; so we rub on pretty
comfortably. King, that you inquire after, is not
with us. He ran away from our house near two
years ago, while we were absent in the country; but
was soon found in Suffolk, where he had been taken
into the service of a lady, that was very fond of the
merit of making him a Christian, and contributing to
his education and improvement. As he was of little
use, and often in mischief, Billy consented to her
keeping him while we stay in England. So the lady
sent him to school, had him taught to read and
write, to play on the violin and French horn, with
some other accomplishments more useful in a ser-
vant. Whether she will finally be willing to part
with him, or persuade Billy to sell him to her, I
know not. In the mean time he is no expense to us.

The accounts you give me of the marriages of our
friends are very agreeable. I love to hear of every
thing that tends to increase the number of good
people. You cannot conceive how shamefully the
mode here is a single life. One can scarce be in the
company of a dozen men of circumstance and for-
tune, but what it is odds that you find on inquiry
eleven of them are single. The great complaint is
the excessive expensiveness of English wives.

I am extremely concerned with you at the misfor-

270 The Works of [1760

tune of our friend Mr. Griffith. How could it pos-
sibly happen ? It was a terrible fire that of Boston.
I shall contribute here towards the relief of the
sufferers. Our relations have escaped, I believe,
generally; but some of my particular friends must
have suffered greatly.

I think you will not complain this year, as you
did the last, of being so long without a letter. I
have wrote to you very frequently ; and shall not be
so much out of the way of writing this summer as I
was the last. I hope our friend Bartram is safely
returned to his family. Remember me to him in
the kindest manner.

Poor David Edwards died this day week, of a con-
sumption. I had a letter from a friend of his,
acquainting me that he had been long ill, and in-
capable of doing business, and was at board in the
country. I feared he might be in straits, as he
never was prudent enough to lay up any thing. So
I wrote to him immediately, that, if he had occasion,
he might draw on me for five guineas. But he died
before my letter got to hand. I hear the woman, at
whose house he long lodged and boarded, has buried
him and taken all he left, which could not be much,
and there are some small debts unpaid. He main-
tained a good character at Bury, where he lived
some years, and was well respected, to my know-
ledge, by some persons of note there. I wrote to you
before, that we saw him at Bury, when we went
through Suffolk into Norfolk, the year before last.
I hope his good father, my old friend, continues well.

Give my duty to mother, and love to my dear

1760] Benjamin Franklin 271

Sally. Remember me affectionately to all inquiring
friends, and believe me ever, my dearest Debby,
your loving husband,

B. Franklin.

CLXXXIX

TO MISS MARY STEVENSON

London, 13 September, 1760.

My Dear Friend: — I have your agreeable letter
from Bristol, which I take this first leisure hour to
answer, having for some time been much engaged in
business.

Your first question, What is the reason the water
at this place, though cold at the spring, becomes warm
by pumping? it will be most prudent in me to forbear
attempting to answer, till, by a more circumstantial
account, you assure me of the fact. I own I should
expect that operation to warm, not so much the
water pumped as the person pumping. The rubbing
of dry solids together has been long observed to pro-
duce heat; but the like effect has never yet, that I
have heard, been produced by the mere agitation of
fluids, or friction of fluids with solids. Water in a
bottle, shook for hours by a mill-hopper, it is said,
discovered no sensible addition of heat. The pro-
duction of animal heat by exercise is therefore to be
accounted for in another manner, which I may here-
after endeavour to make you acquainted with.

This prudence of not attempting to give reasons
before one is sure of facts, I learned from one of your

272 The Works of [1760

sex, who, as Selden tells us, being in company with
some gentlemen that were viewing and considering
something which they called a Chinese shoe, and dis-
puting earnestly about the manner of wearing it,
and how it could possibly be put on, put in her
word, and said modestly, Gentlemen, are you sure it
is a shoe ? Should not that be settled first ?

But I shall now endeavour to explain what I said
to you about the tide in rivers, and to that end shall
make a figure, which, though not very like a river
may serve to convey my meaning. Suppose a canal
one hundred and forty miles long, communicating at
one end with the sea, and filled therefore with sea
water. I choose a canal at first, rather than a river,
to throw out of consideration the effects produced by
the streams of fresh water from the land, the in-
equality in breadth, and the crookedness of courses.

Let A C be the head of the canal; C D, the bot-
tom of it; D F, the open mouth of it, next the sea.
Let the straight pricked line B G represent low-
water mark, the whole length of the canal; A F,
high- water mark. Now if a person, standing at E,
and observing, at the time of high water there, that
the canal is quite full at that place up to the line E,
should conclude that the canal is equally full to the

1760] Benjamin Franklin 273

same height from end to end, and therefore there
was as much more water come into the canal since it
was down at low-water mark as would be included
in the oblong space A B G F, he would be greatly
mistaken. For the tide is a wave, and the top of the
wave, which makes high water, as well as every
other lower part, is progressive ; and it is high water
successively, but not at the same time, in all the
several points between G F and A B. And in such
a length as I have mentioned it is low water at F G,
and also at A B, at or near the same time with its
being high water at E; so that the surface of the
water in the canal, during that situation, is properly
represented by the curve pricked line BEG. And,
on the other hand, when it is low water at E H, it is
high water both at F G and at A B, at or near the
same time ; and the surface would then be described
by the inverted curve line, A H F.

In this view of the case, you will easily see that
there must be very little more water in the canal at
what we call high water, than there is at low water,
those terms not relating to the whole canal at the
same time, but successively to its parts. And, if you
suppose the canal six times as long, the case would
not vary as to the quantity of water at different
times of the tide ; there would only be six waves in
the canal at the same time, instead of one, and the
hollows in the water would be equal to the hills.

That this is not mere theory, but conformable to
fact, we know by our long rivers in America. The
Delaware, on which Philadelphia stands, is in this
particular similar to the canal I have supposed of

VOL. III. — It

274 The Works of [1760

one wave ; for, when it is high water at the Capes or
mouth of the river, it is also high water at Phila-
delphia, which stands about one hundred and forty
miles from the sea; and there is at the same time a
low water in the middle between the two high waters ;
where, when it comes to be high water, it is at the
same time low water at the Capes and at Philadel-
phia. And the longer rivers have some a wave and
a half, some two, three, or four waves, according to
their length. In the shorter rivers of this island,
one may see the same thing in part; for instance,
it is high water at Gravesend an hour before it is
high water at London Bridge ; and twenty miles be-
low Gravesend, an hour before it is high water
at Gravesend. Therefore at the time of high water
at Gravesend the top of the wave is there, and the
water is then not so high by some feet where the top
of the wave was an hour before, or where it will be
an hour after, as it is just then at Gravesend.

Now we are not to suppose, because the swell or
top of the wave runs at the rate of twenty miles an
hour, that therefore the current, or water itself of
which the wave is composed, runs at that rate. Far
from it. To conceive this motion of a wave, make
a small experiment or two. Fasten one end of a
cord in a window near the top of a house, and let the
other end come down to the ground ; take this end
in your hand, and you may, by a sudden motion,
occasion a wave in the cord that will run quite up to
the window; but though the wave is progressive
from your hand to the window, the parts of the rope
do not proceed with the wave, but remain where

1760] Benjamin Franklin 275

they were, except only that kind of motion that pro-
duces the wave. So if you throw a stone into a
pond of water when the surface is still and smooth,
you will see a circular wave proceed from the stone
as its centre, quite to the sides of the pond; but the
water does not proceed with the wave, it only rises
and falls to form it in the different parts of its course ;
and the waves that follow the first, all make use of
the same water with their predecessors.

But a wave in water is not indeed in all circum-
stances exactly like that in a cord; for, water being
a fluid, and gravitating to the earth, it naturally
runs from a higher place to a lower; therefore the
parts of the wave in water do actually run a little
both ways from its top towards its lower sides,
which the parts of the wave in the cord cannot do.
Thus, when it is high and standing water at Graves-
end, the water twenty miles below has been running
ebb, or towards the sea for an hour, or ever since
it was high water there; but the water at London
Bridge will run flood, or from the sea yet another
hour, till it is high water, or the top of the wave
arrives at that bridge, and then it will have run ebb
an hour at Gravesend, &c, &c. Now this motion of
the water, occasioned only by its gravity, or ten-
dency to run from a higher place to a lower, is by no
means so swift as the motion of its wave. It scarce
exceeds perhaps two miles in an hour.

If it went, as the wave does, twenty miles an hour,
no ships could ride at anchor in such a stream, nor
boats row against it.

In common speech, indeed, this current of the

276 The Works of [1760

water both ways from the top of the wave is called
the tide; thus we say the tide runs strong, the tide
runs at the rate of one, two, or three miles an hour,
&c., and when we are at a part of the river behind
the top of the wave, and find the water lower than
high-water mark, and running towards the sea, we
say the tide runs ebb; and when we are before the
top of the wave, and find the water higher than
low-water mark, and running from the sea, we say
the tide runs flood; but these expressions are only
locally proper; for a tide, strictly speaking, is one
whole wave, including all its parts higher and lower,
and these waves succeed one another about twice in
twenty-four hours.

This motion of the water, occasioned by its grav-
ity, will explain to you why the water near the
mouths of rivers may be salter at high water than
at low. Some of the salt water, as the tide wave
enters the river, runs from its top and fore side, and
mixes with the fresh, and also pushes it back up the
river.

Supposing that the water commonly runs during
the flood at the rate of two miles in an hour, and
that the flood runs five hours, you see that it can
bring at most into our canal only a quantity of water
equal to the space included in the breadth of the
canal, ten miles of its length, and the depth between
low and high-water mark ; which is but a fourteenth
part of what would be necessary to fill all the space
between low and high-water mark for one hundred
and forty miles, the whole length of the canal.

And indeed such a quantity of water as would fill

1760] Benjamin Franklin 277

that whole space, to run in and out every tide, must
create so outrageous a current, as would do infinite
damage to the shores, shipping, &c, and make the
navigation of a river almost impracticable.

I have made this letter longer than I intended,
and therefore reserve for another what I have fur-
ther to say on the subject of tides and rivers. I
shall now only add that I have not been exact in the
numbers, because I would avoid perplexing you with
minute calculations, my design at present being
chiefly to give you distinct and clear ideas of the
first principles.

After writing six folio pages of philosophy to a
young girl, is it necessary to finish such a letter with
a compliment? Is not such a letter of itself a com-
pliment? Does it not say she has a mind thirsty
after knowledge, and capable of receiving it; and
that the most agreeable things one can write to her
are those that tend to the improvement of her un-
derstanding? It does indeed say all this, but then
it is still no compliment; it is no more than plain
honest truth, which is not the character of a com-
pliment. So if I would finish my letter in the mode,
I should yet add something that means nothing, and
is merely civil and polite. But, being naturally awk-
ward at every circumstance of ceremony, I shall not
attempt it. I had rather conclude abruptly with
what pleases me more than any compliment can
please you, that I am allowed to subscribe myself
Your affectionate friend,

B. Franklin.

278 The Works of [1760

CXC

THE INTEREST OF GREAT BRITAIN CONSIDERED, WITH
REGARD TO HER COLONIES AND THE ACQUISI-
TIONS OF CANADA AND GUADALOUPE x

I have perused with no small pleasure, the Letter
Addressed to Two Great Men, and the Remarks on
that letter. It is not merely from the beauty, the
force, and perspicuity of expression, or the general
elegance of manner, conspicuous in both pamphlets,
that my pleasure chiefly arises; it is rather from
this, that I have lived to see subjects of the greatest
importance to this nation publicly discussed without
party views or party heat, with decency and polite-
ness, and with no other warmth than what a zeal for
the honor and happiness of our King and country
may inspire ; and this by writers whose understand-

1 When the war with France was drawing to its close, the question
whether Canada was to be given up to the French or retained as a
set-off for acquisitions in the West Indies was much and warmly-
debated. The Earl of Bath published a Letter to Two Great Men (Pitt
and Newcastle), recommending the retention of Canada as the more
valuable; and shortly afterwards Remarks on the Letter to Two Great
Men, attributed by some to Edmund Burke, and by some to William
Burke, appeared, — the writer preferring Guadeloupe to Canada.

At this stage of the debate Franklin contributed this pamphlet to
the discussion. It provoked a reply, supposed also to have been
written by Burke, who stated that he should confine his remarks to
the writer of this performance, because of all those who had treated
the opposite side of the question "he is clearly the ablest, the most
ingenious, the most dexterous, and the most perfectly acquainted with
the fort and faible of the argument, and we may therefore conclude
that he has said every thing in the best manner that the cause would
bear."

It is difficult now to understand how such a debate could have been
provoked by such a question, and not at all surprising that Franklin's
view prevailed. — Editor.

1760] Benjamin Franklin 279

ing, however they may differ from each other,
appears not unequal to their candor and the up-
rightness of their intention.

But, as great abilities have not always the best
information, there are, I apprehend, in the Remarks
some opinions not well founded, and some mistakes
of so important a nature, as to render a few observa-
tions on them necessary for the better information
of the public.

The author of the Letter, who must be every way
best able to support his own sentiments, will, I hope,
excuse me, if I seem officiously to interfere; when he
considers, that the spirit of patriotism, like other
qualities good and bad, is catching, and that his long
silence, since the Remarks appeared, has made us
despair of seeing the subject farther discussed by his
masterly hand. The ingenious and candid Re-
marker, too, who must have been misled himself,
before he employed his skill and address to mislead
others, will certainly, since he declares he aims at no
seduction, be disposed to excuse even the weakest
effort to prevent it.

And surely, if the general opinions that possess
the minds of the people may possibly be of conse-
quence in public affairs, it must be fit to set those
opinions right. If there is danger, as the Remarker
supposes, that "extravagant expectations" may
embarass "a virtuous and able ministry," and "ren-
der the negotiation for peace a work of infinite diffi-
culty," * there is no less danger that expectations too
low, through want of proper information, may have

1 Remarks, p. 6.

280 The Works of [1760

a contrary effect; may make even a virtuous and
able ministry less anxious and less attentive to the
obtaining points, in which the honor and interest of
the nation are essentially concerned ; and the people
less hearty in supporting such a ministry and its
measures.

The people of this nation are indeed respectable,
not for their numbers only, but for their under-
standing and their public spirit. They manifest the
first by their universal approbation of the late pru-
dent and vigorous measures, and the confidence they
so justly repose in a wise and good prince, and an
honest and able administration ; the latter they have
demonstrated by the immense supplies granted in
Parliament unanimously, and paid through the whole
kingdom with cheerfulness. And since to this spirit
and these supplies our "victories and successes"1
have, in great measure, been owing, is it quite right,
is it generous, to say, with the Remarker, that the
people " had no share in acquiring them"? The
mere mob he cannot mean, even where he speaks of
the madness of the people; for the madness of the
mob must be too feeble and impotent, armed as the
government of this country at present is, to "over-
rule,"2 even in the slightest instances, the virtue
" and moderation" of a firm and steady ministry.

While the war continues, its final event is quite
uncertain. The victorious of this year may be the
vanquished of the next. It may therefore be too
early to say, what advantages we ought absolutely
to insist on, and make the sine quibus non of a peace.

1 Remarks, p. 7. 2 Ibid., p. 7.

1760] Benjamin Franklin 281

If the necessity of our affairs should oblige us to
accept of terms less advantageous than our present
successes seem to promise us, an intelligent people,
as ours is, must see that necessity, and will acquiesce.
But as a peace, when it is made, may be made has-
tily; and as the unhappy continuance of the war
affords us time to consider, among several advan-
tages gained or to be gained, which of them may be
most for our interest to retain, if some and not all
may possibly be retained, I do not blame the public
disquisition of these points as premature or useless.
Light often arises from a collision of opinions, as fire
from flint and steel ; and if we can obtain the benefit
of the light, without danger from the heat sometimes
produced by controversy, why should we discourage
it?

Supposing then that Heaven may still continue to
bless his Majesty's arms, and that the event of this
just war may put it in our power to retain some of
our conquests at the making of a peace; let us
consider :

1 . The Security of a Dominion, a justifiable and pru-
dent Ground upon which to demand Cessions
from an Enemy.

Whether we are to confine ourselves to those pos-
sessions only that were "the objects for which we
began the war." l This the Remarker seems to
think right, when the question relates to " Canada,
properly so-called; it having never been mentioned

1 Remarks, p. 1 9.

282 The Works of [1760

as one of those objects, in any of our memorials or
declarations, or in any national or public act what-
soever." But the gentleman himself will probably
agree, that if the cession of Canada would be a real
advantage to us, we may demand it under his second
head, as an " indemnification for the charges in-
curred" in recovering our just rights; otherwise,
according to his own principles, the demand of
Guadaloupe can have no foundation. That "our
claims before the war were large enough for posses-
sion and for security too," x though it seems a clear
point with the ingenious Remarker, is, I own, not so
with me. I am rather of the contrary opinion, and
shall presently give my reasons.

But first let me observe that we did not make
those claims because they were large enough for
security, but because we could rightfully claim no
more. Advantages gained in the course of this war
may increase the extent of our rights. Our claims
before the war contained some security; but that is
no reason why we should neglect acquiring more
when the demand of more is become reasonable.
It may be reasonable in the case of America to ask
for the security recommended by the author of the
Letter,2 though it would be preposterous to do it in
many cases. His proposed demand is founded on
the little value of Canada to the French; the right
we have to ask, and the power we may have to insist
on, an indemnification for our expenses; the diffi-
culty the French themselves will be under of re-

1 Remarks, p. 19.

2 Page 30 of the Letter, and p. 21 of the Remarks.

1760] Benjamin Franklin 283

straining their restless subjects in America from
encroaching on our limits and disturbing our trade ;
and the difficulty on our part of preventing encroach-
ments that may possibly exist many years without
coming to our knowledge.

But the Remarker "does not see why the argu-
ments employed concerning a security for a peace-
able behaviour in Canada would not be equally
cogent for calling for the same security in Europe." *
On a little farther reflection, he must, I think, be
sensible that the circumstances of the two cases are
widely different. Here we are separated by the best
and clearest of boundaries, the ocean, and we have
people in or near every part of our territory. Any
attempt to encroach upon us by building a fort,
even in the obscurest corner of these Islands, must
therefore be known and prevented immediately. The
aggressors also must be known, and the nation they
belong to would be accountable for their aggression.
In America it is quite otherwise. A vast wilder-
ness, thinly or scarce at all peopled, conceals with
ease the march of troops and workmen. Important
passes may be seized within our limits, and forts
built in a month, at a small expense, that may cost
us an age and a million to remove. Dear experience
has taught this. But what is still worse, the wide-
extended forests between our settlements and
theirs are inhabited by barbarous tribes of savages
that delight in war, and take pride in murder; sub-
jects properly neither of the French nor English,
but strongly attached to the former by the art and

1 Remarks, p. 28.

284 The Works of [1760

indefatigable industry of priests, similarity of super-
stitions, and frequent family alliances. These are
easily, and have been continually, instigated to fall
upon and massacre our planters, even in times of
full peace between the two crowns, to the certain
diminution of our people and the contraction of our
settlements.1 And though it is known they are sup-
plied by the French, and carry their prisoners to
them, we can, by complaining, obtain no redress, as
the governors of Canada have a ready excuse, that

1 Dr. Clarke, in his Observations on the Late and Present Conduct of
the French, etc., printed at Boston, 1755, says:

"The Indians in the French interest are, upon all proper opportuni-
ties, instigated by their priests (who have generally the chief manage-
ment of their public councils) to acts of hostility against the English,
even in time of profound peace between the two crowns. Of this
there are many undeniable instances. The war between the Indians
and the colonies of the Massachusetts Bay and New Hampshire, in
1733, by which those colonies suffered so much damage, was begun by
the instigation of the French; their supplies were from them; and
there are now original letters of several Jesuits to be produced, whereby
it evidently appears that they were continually animating the Indians,
when almost tired with the war, to a further prosecution of it. The
French not only excited the Indians, and supported them, but joined
their own forces with them in all the late hostilities that have been
committed within his Majesty's province of Nova Scotia. And from
an intercepted letter this year from the Jesuits at Penobscot, and from
other information, it is certain that they have been using their utmost
endeavours to excite the Indians to new acts of hostility against his
Majesty's colony of the Massachusetts Bay; and some have been com-
mitted. The French not only excite the Indians to acts of hostility,
but reward them for it, by buying the English prisoners of them, for the
ransom of each of which they afterwards demand of us the price that
is usually given for a slave in these colonies. They do this under the
specious pretence of rescuing the poor prisoners from the cruelties and
barbarities of the savages; but in reality to encourage them to con-
tinue their depredations, as they can by this means get more by hunt-
ing the English than by hunting wild beasts; and the French, at the
same time, are thereby enabled to keep up a large body of Indians,
entirely at the expense of the English."

1760] Benjamin Franklin 285

the Indians are an independent people, over whom
they have no power, and for whose actions they are,
therefore, not accountable. Surely circumstances so
widely different may reasonably authorize different
demands of security in America from such as are
usual or necessary in Europe.

The Remarker, however, thinks that our real de-
pendence for keeping " France or any other nation
true to her engagements must not be in demanding
securities, which no nation whilst independent can
give, but on our own strength and our own vigi-
lance." z No nation that has carried on a war with
disadvantage, and is unable to continue it, can be
said under such circumstances to be independent;
and, while either side thinks itself in a condition to
demand an indemnification, there is no man in his
senses but will, cceteris paribus, prefer an indemnifi-
cation that is a cheaper and more effectual security
than any other he can think of. Nations in this
situation demand and cede countries by almost every
treaty of peace that is made. The French part of
the island of St. Christopher's was added to Great
Britain in circumstances altogether similar to those
in which a few months may probably place the
country of Canada. Farther security has always
been deemed a motive with a conqueror to be less
moderate; and even the vanquished insist upon se-
curity as a reason for demanding what they acknow-
ledge they could not otherwise properly ask.

The security of the frontier of France on the side
of the Netherlands was always considered in the

1 Remarks, p. 25.

286 The Works of [1760

negotiation that began at Gertrudenberg and ended
with that war. For the same reason they demanded
and had Cape Breton. But a war, concluded to the
advantage of France, has always added something
to the power, either of France or the House of Bour-
bon. Even that of 1733, which she commenced with
declarations of her having no ambitious views, and
which finished by a treaty at which the ministers of
France repeatedly declared, that she desired nothing
for herself, in effect gained for her Lorraine, an in-
demnification ten times the value of all her North
American possessions.

In short, security and quiet of princes and states
have ever been deemed sufficient reasons, when sup-
ported by power, for disposing of rights; and such
dispositions have never been looked on as want of
moderation. It has always been the foundation of
the most general treaties. The security of Germany
was the argument for yielding considerable posses-
sions there to the Swedes; and the security of Eu-
rope divided the Spanish monarchy by the partition
treaty, made between powers who had no other
right to dispose of any part of it. There can be no
cession, that is not supposed at least to increase the
power of the party to whom it is made. It is enough
that he has a right to ask it, and that he does it not
merely to serve the purposes of a dangerous ambition.

Canada, in the hands of Britain, will endanger the
kingdom of France as little as any other cession ; and
from its situation and circumstances cannot be hurt-
ful to any other state. Rather, if peace be an ad-
vantage, this cession may be such to all Europe.

1760] Benjamin Franklin 287

The present war teaches us, that disputes arising in
America may be an occasion of embroiling nations,
who have no concerns there. If the French remain
in Canada and Louisiana, fix the boundaries as you
will between us and them, we must border on each
other for more than fifteen hundred miles. The
people that inhabit the frontiers are generally the
refuse of both nations, often of the worst morals,
and the least discretion; remote from the eye, the
prudence, and the restraint of government. In-
juries are therefore frequently, in some part or other
of so long a frontier, committed on both sides, re-
sentment provoked, the colonies are first engaged,
and then the mother countries. And two great
nations can scarce be at war in Europe, but some
other prince or state thinks it a convenient oppor-
tunity to revive some ancient claim, seize some
advantage, obtain some territory, or enlarge some
power at the expense of a neighbour. The flames
of war, once kindled, often spread far and wide, and
the mischief is infinite. Happy it proved to both
nations, that the Dutch were prevailed on finally to
cede the New Netherlands (now the province of New
York) to us at the peace of 1674; a peace that has
ever since continued between us, but must have been
frequently disturbed, if they had retained the pos-
session of that country, bordering several hundred
miles on our colonies of Pennsylvania westward,
Connecticut and the Massachusetts eastward. Nor
is it to be wondered at, that people of different lan-
guage, religion, and manners, should in those remote
parts engage in frequent quarrels, when we find that

288 The Works of [1760

even the people of our own colonies have frequently
been so exasperated against each other, in their dis-
putes about boundaries, as to proceed to open vio-
lence and bloodshed.

2. Erecting Forts in the back Settlements, almost in no
Instance a sufficient Security against the Indians
and the French; but the Possession of Canada
implies every Security, and ought to be had, while
in our Power.

But the Remarker thinks we shall be sufficiently
secure in America, if we " raise English forts at such
passes as may at once make us respectable to the
French and to the Indian nations.1 The security
desirable in America may be considered as of three
kinds: 1. A security of possession, that the French
shall not drive us out of the country. 2. A security
of our planters from the inroads of savages, and the
murders committed by them. 3. A security that the
British nation shall not be obliged, on every new
war, to repeat the immense expense occasioned by
this, to defend its possessions in America.

Forts in the most important passes may, I ac-
knowledge, be of use to obtain the first kind of secur-
ity ; but, as those situations are far advanced beyond
the inhabitants, the expense of maintaining and
supplying the garrisons will be very great, even in
time of full peace, and immense on every interrup-
tion of it; as it is easy for skulking parties of the
enemy, in such long roads through the woods, to

1 Remarks, p. 25.

1760] Benjamin Franklin 289

intercept and cut off our convoys, unless guarded
continually by great bodies of men.

The second kind of security will not be obtained
by such forts, unless they were connected by a wall
like that of China, from one end of our settlements
to the other. If the Indians, when at war, marched
like the Europeans, with great armies, heavy can-
non, baggage, and carriages; the passes through
which alone such armies could penetrate our coun-
try, or receive their supplies, being secured, all might
be sufficiently secure. But the case is widely differ-
ent; they go to war, as they call it, in small parties;
from fifty men down to five. Their hunting life has
made them acquainted with the whole country, and
scarce any part of it is impracticable to such a party.
They can travel through the woods even by night,
and know how to conceal their tracks. They pass
easily between your forts undiscovered; and pri-
vately approach the settlements of your frontier
inhabitants. They need no convoys of provisions
to follow them; for whether they are shifting from
place to place in the woods, or lying in wait for an
opportunity to strike a blow, every thicket and every
stream furnishes so small a number with sufficient
subsistence. When they have surprised separately
and murdered and scalped a dozen families, they
are gone with inconceivable expedition through un-
known ways; and it is very rare that pursuers have
any chance of coming up with them. In short, long
experience has taught our planters that they cannot
rely upon forts as a security against Indians; the
inhabitants of Hackney might as well rely upon the

VOL. III. — 19.

290 The Works of [1760

Tower of London, to secure them against highway-
men and housebreakers.

As to the third kind of security, that we shall not
in a few years, have all we have done to do over
again in America, and be obliged to employ the same
number of troops and ships, at the same immense
expense, to defend our possessions there, while we
are in proportion weakened here ; such forts, I think,
cannot prevent this. During a peace, it is not to be
doubted the French, who are adroit at fortifying,
will likewise erect forts in the most advantageous
places of the country we leave them; which will
make it more difficult than ever to be reduced in
case of another war. We know, by experience of
this war, how extremely difficult it is to march an
army through the American woods, with its neces-
sary cannon and stores, sufficient to reduce a very
slight fort. The accounts at the treasury will tell
you what amazing sums we have necessarily spent
in the expeditions against two very trifling forts,
Duquesne and Crown Point. While the French re-
tain their influence over the Indians, they can easily
keep our long-extended frontier in continual alarm,
by a very few of those people; and, with a small
number of regulars and militia, in such a country, we
find they can keep an army of ours in full employ
for several years. We therefore shall not need to be
told by our colonies, that if we leave Canada, how-
ever circumscribed, to the French, "we have done
nothing ' ' * ; we shall soon be made sensible ourselves
of this truth, and to our cost.

1 Remarks, p. 26.

i76°] Benjamin Franklin 291

I would not be understood to deny, that even if
we subdue and take Canada, some few forts may be
of use to secure the goods of the traders, and protect
the commerce, in case of any sudden misunderstand-
ing with any tribe of Indians ; but these forts will
be best under the care of the colonies interested in
the Indian trade, and garrisoned by their provincial
forces, and at their own expense. Their own inter-
est will then induce the American governments to
take care of such forts in proportion to their import-
ance, and see that the officers keep their corps full,
and mind their duty. But any troops of ours placed
there, and accountable here, would in such remote
and obscure places, and at so great a distance from
the eye and inspection of superiors, soon become of
little consequence, even though the French were left
in possession of Canada. If the four independent
companies, maintained by the crown in New York
more than forty years, at a great expense, consisted,
for most part of the time, of faggots chiefly; if their
officers enjoyed their places as sinecures, and were
only, as a writer l of that country styles them, a kind
of military monks; if this was the state of troops
posted in a populous country, where the imposition
could not be so well concealed, what may we expect will
be the case of those that shall be posted two, three,
or four hundred miles from the inhabitants, in such
obscure and remote places as Crown Point, Oswego,
Duquesne, or Niagara? They would scarce be even
faggots; they would dwindle to mere names upon
paper, and appear nowhere but upon the muster-rolls.

1 Douglass.

292 The Works of [1760

Now all the kinds of security we have mentioned
are obtained by subduing and retaining Canada.
Our present possessions in America are secured ; our
planters will no longer be massacred by the Indians,
who, depending absolutely on us for what are now
become the necessaries of life to them (guns, powder,
hatchets, knives, and clothing), and having no other
Europeans near, that can either supply them, or in-
stigate them against us, there is no doubt of their
being always disposed, if we treat them with com-
mon justice, to live in perpetual peace with us. And,
with regard to France, she cannot, in case of another
war, put us to the immense expense of defending
that long-extended frontier; we shall then, as it
were, have our backs against a wall in America; the
sea-coast will be easily protected by our superior
naval power; and here "our own watchfulness and
our own strength ' ' will be properly, and cannot but
be successfully, employed. In this situation, the
force now employed in that part of the world may
be spared for any other service here or elsewhere;
so that both the offensive and defensive strength of
the British empire, on the whole, will be greatly
increased.

But to leave the French in possession of Canada,
when it is in our power to remove them, and depend
(as the Remarker proposes) on our own "strength
and watchfulness " * to prevent the mischiefs that
may attend it, seems neither safe nor prudent.
Happy as we now are, under the best of kings, and in
the prospect of a succession promising every felicity

1 Remarks, p. 25.

1760] Benjamin Franklin 293

a nation was ever blessed with; happy, too, in the
wisdom and vigor of every part of the administra-
tion, we cannot, we ought not to promise ourselves
the uninterrupted continuance of those blessings.
The safety of a considerable part of the state,
and the interest of the whole, are not to be trusted
to the wisdom and vigor of future administra-
tions, when a security is to be had more effectual,
more constant, and much less expensive. They who
can be moved by the apprehension of dangers so
remote, as that of the future independence of our
colonies (a point I shall hereafter consider), seem
scarcely consistent with themselves, when they sup-
pose we may rely on the wisdom and vigor of an
administration for their safety. I should indeed
think it less material whether Canada were ceded to
us or not, if I had in view only the security of pos-
session in our colonies. I entirely agree with the
Remarker, that we are in North America, "a far
greater continental as well as naval power," and
that only cowardice or ignorance can subject our
colonies there to a French conquest. But, for the
same reason, I disagree with him widely upon an-
other point.

3, The Blood and Treasure spent in the American
Wars, not spent in the Cause of the Colonies
alone.

I do not think that our "blood and treasure have
been expended," as he intimates, "in the cause of
the colonies," and that we are "making conquests

294 The Works of [1760

for them ' ' ■ ; yet I believe this is too common an
error. I do not say they are altogether unconcerned
in the event. The inhabitants of them are, in com-
mon with the other subjects of Great Britain,
anxious for the glory of her crown, the extent of her
power and commerce, the welfare and future repose
of the whole British people. They could not, there-
fore, but take a large share in the affronts offered
to Britain; and have been animated with a truly
British spirit to exert themselves beyond their
strength, and against their evident interest. Yet
so unfortunate have they been, that their virtue has
made against them; for upon no better foundation
than this have they been supposed the authors of a
war carried on for their advantage only.

It is a great mistake to imagine that the American
country in question between Great Britain and
France is claimed as the property of any individual
or public body in America; or that the possession of
it by Great Britain is likely, in any lucrative view,
to redound at all to the advantage of any person
there. On the other hand, the bulk of the inhabi-
tants of North America are land-owners, whose lands
are inferior in value to those of Britain, only by
the want of an equal number of people. It is true,
the accession of the large territory claimed before the
war began (especially if that be secured by the pos-
session of Canada), will tend to the increase of the
British subjects, faster than if they had been con-
fined within the mountains ; yet the increase within
the mountains only, would evidently make the com-

1 Remarks, p. 25.

1760] Benjamin Franklin 295

parative population equal to that of Great Britain,
much sooner than it can be expected when our
people are spread over a country six times as large.
I think this is the only point of light in which this
account is to be viewed, and is the only one in which
any of the colonies are concerned.

No colony, no possessor of lands in any colony,
therefore, wishes for conquests, or can be benefited
by them, otherwise than as they may be a means of
securing peace on their borders. No considerable
advantage has resulted to the colonies by the con-
quests of this war, or can result from confirming
them by the peace, but what they must enjoy in
common with the rest of the British people; with
this evident drawback from their share of these ad-
vantages, that they will necessarily lessen or at least
prevent the increase of the value of what makes the
principal part of their private property, their land.
A people spread through the whole tract of country
on this side the Mississippi, and secured by Canada
in our hands, would probably for some centuries find
employment in agriculture, and thereby free us at
home effectually from our fears of American manu-
factures. Unprejudiced men well know, that all the
penal and prohibitory laws that were ever thought
on will not be sufficient to prevent manufactures in
a country whose inhabitants surpass the number
that can subsist by the husbandry of it. That this
will be the case in America soon, if our people remain
confined within the mountains, and almost as soon
should it be unsafe for them to live beyond, though
the country be ceded to us, no man acquainted with

296 The Works of [1760

political and commercial history can doubt. Manu-
factures are founded in poverty. It is the multitude
of poor without land in a country, and who must
work for others at low wages or starve, that enables
undertakers to carry on a manufacture, and afford
it cheap enough to prevent the importation of the
same kind from abroad, and to bear the expense of
its own exportation.

But no man, who can have a piece of land of his
own, sufficient by his labor to subsist his family in
plenty, is poor enough to be a manufacturer, and
work for a master. Hence, while there is land
enough in America for our people, there can never
be manufactures to any amount or value. It is a
striking observation of a very able pen, that the
natural livelihood of the thin inhabitants of a forest
country is hunting; that of a greater number, pas-
turage; that of a middling population, agriculture;
and that of the greatest, manufactures; which last
must subsist the bulk of the people in a full country,
or they must be subsisted by charity, or perish.
The extended population, therefore, that is most
advantageous to Great Britain, will be best effected,
because only effectually secured, by the possession of
Canada.

So far as the being of our present colonies in North
America is concerned, I think indeed with the Re-
marker, that the French there are not " an enemy to
be apprehended " l ; but the expression is too vague
to be applicable to the present, or indeed to any
other case. Algiers, Tunis, and Tripoli, unequal as

1 Remarks, p. 27.

1760] Benjamin Franklin 297

they are to this nation in power and numbers of
people, are enemies to be still apprehended ; and the
Highlanders of Scotland have been so for many ages,
by the greatest princes of Scotland and Britain. The
wild Irish were able to give a great deal of disturb-
ance even to Queen Elizabeth, and cost her more
blood and treasure than her war with Spain. Can-
ada, in the hands of France, has always stinted the
growth of our colonies, in the course of this war, and
indeed before it; has disturbed and vexed even the
best and strongest of them; has found means to
murder thousands of their people, and unsettle a
great part of their country. Much more able will it
be to starve the growth of an infant settlement.
Canada has also found means to make this nation
spend two or three millions a year in America; and
a people, how small soever, that in their present
situation can do this as often as we have a war with
them, is, methinks, "an enemy to be apprehended."
Our North American colonies are to be considered
as the frontier of the British empire on that side. The
frontier of any dominion being attacked, it becomes
not merely "the cause" of the people immediately
attacked, the inhabitants of that frontier, but prop-
erly "the cause" of the whole body. Where the
frontier people owe and pay obedience, there they
have a right to look for protection. No political
proposition is better established than this. It is
therefore invidious to represent the "blood and
treasure" spent in this war as spent in "the cause
of the colonies" only; and that they are "absurd
and ungrateful, " if they think we have done nothing,

298 The Works of [1760

unless we "make conquests for them," and reduce
Canada to gratify their "vain ambition," &c. It
will not be a conquest for them, nor gratify any vain
ambition of theirs. It will be a conquest for the
whole; and all our people will, in the increase of
trade and the ease of taxes, find the advantage of it.

Should we be obliged at any time to make a war
for the protection of our commerce, and to secure the
exportation of our manufactures, would it be fair to
represent such a war merely as blood and treasure
spent in the cause of the weavers of Yorkshire, Nor-
wich, or the West, the cuttlers of Sheffield, or the
button-makers of Birmingham? I hope it will ap-
pear, before I end these sheets, that if ever there
was a national war, this is truly such a one; a war
in which the interest of the whole nation is directly
and fundamentally concerned. Those who would
be thought deeply skilled in human nature affect to
discover self-interested views everywhere, at the
bottom of the fairest, the most generous conduct.
Suspicions and charges of this kind meet with ready
reception and belief in the minds even of the multi-
tude, and therefore less acuteness and address than
the Remarker is possessed of would be sufficient to
persuade the nation generally that all the zeal and
spirit manifested and exerted by the colonies in this
war was only in "their own cause," to "make con-
quest for themselves," to engage us to make more
for them, to gratify their own "vain ambition."

But should they now humbly address the mother
country in the terms and the sentiments of the Re-
marker; return her their grateful acknowledgments

760] Benjamin Franklin 299

for the blood and treasure she had spent in "their
cause ' ' ; confess that enough had now been done " for
them"; allow that "English forts, raised in proper
passes, will, with the wisdom and vigor of her ad-
ministration," be a sufficient future protection; ex-
press their desires that their people may be confined
within the mountains, lest, if they be suffered to
spread and extend themselves in the fertile and
pleasant country on the other side, they should
" increase infinitely from all causes," " live wholly on
their own labor," and become independent; beg,
therefore, that the French may be suffered to remain
in possession of Canada, as their neighbourhood may
be useful to prevent our increase, and the removing
them may " in its consequences be even dangerous ": ;
— I say, should such an address from the colonies
make its appearance here (though, according to the
Remarker, it would be a most just and reasonable
one), would it not, might it not, with more justice
be answered: " We understand you, Gentlemen, per-
fectly well; you have only your interest in view;
you want to have the people confined within your
present limits, that in a few years the lands you are
possessed of may increase tenfold in value. You
want to reduce the price of labor by increasing num-
bers on the same territory, that you may be able to
set up manufactures and vie with your mother
country. You would have your people kept in a
body, that you may be more able to dispute the
commands of the crown, and obtain an independ-
ency. You would have the French left in Canada

1 Remarks, pp. 50, 51.

300 The Works of [1760

to exercise your military virtue, and make you a
warlike people, that you may have more confidence
to embark in schemes of disobedience, and greater
ability to support them. You have tasted, too, the
sweets of two or three millions sterling per
annum spent among you by our fleets and forces,
and you are unwilling to be without a pretence for
kindling up another war, and thereby occasioning a
repetition of the same delightful doses. But, Gen-
tlemen, allow us to understand our interest a little
likewise; we shall remove the French from Canada,
that you may live in peace, and we be no more
drained by your quarrels. You shall have land
enough to cultivate, that you may have neither
necessity nor inclination to go into manufactures,
and we will manufacture for you, and govern you."
A reader of the Remarks may be apt to say: " If
this writer would have us restore Canada on princi-
ples of moderation, how can we, consistent with
those principles, retain Guadaloupe, which he repre-
sents of so much greater value?" I will endeavour
to explain this ; because, by doing it, I shall have an
opportunity of showing the truth and good sense of
the answer to the interested application I have just
supposed. The author, then, is only apparently and
not really inconsistent with himself. If we can ob-
tain the credit of moderation by restoring Canada,
it is well; but we should, however, restore it at all
events; because it would not only be of no use to us,
but "the possession of it (in his opinion) may in
its consequences be dangerous." J As how? Why,

1 Remarks, pp. 50, 51.

1760] Benjamin Franklin 301

plainly (at length it comes out), if the French are
not left there to check the growth of our colonies,
" they will extend themselves almost without bounds
into inland parts, and increase infinitely from all
causes; becoming a numerous, hardy, independent
people ; possessed of a strong country, communicat-
ing little or not at all with England, living wholly
on their own labor, and in process of time know-
ing little and inquiring little about the mother
country."

In short, according to this writer, our present
colonies are large enough and numerous enough ; and
the French ought to be left in North America to pre-
vent their increase, lest they become not only use-
less, but dangerous to Britain. I agree with the
gentleman, that, with Canada in our possession, our
people in America will increase amazingly. I know
that their common rate of increase, where they are
not molested by the enemy, is doubling their num-
bers every twenty-five years, by natural generation
only; exclusive of the accession of foreigners.1 I
think this increase continuing would probably, in a
century more, make the number of British subjects

1 The reason of this greater increase in America than in Europe is,
that in old settled countries, all trades, farms, offices, and employ-
ments are full: and many people refrain from marriage till they see
an opening, in which they can settle themselves, with a reasonable
prospect of maintaining a family; but in America, it being easy to
obtain land, which, with moderate labor will afford subsistence and
something to spare, people marry more readily and earlier in life,
whence arise a numerous offspring and the swift population of those
countries. It is a common error, that we cannot fill our provinces, or
increase the number of them, without draining this nation of its people.
The increase alone of our present colonies is sufficient for both those
purposes. — F.

302 The Works of [1760

on that side the water more numerous than they now
are on this; but, —

4. Not necessary that the American Colonies should
cease being useful to the Mother Country. Their
Preference over the West India Colonies stated.

— I am far from entertaining, on that account, any
fears of their becoming either useless or dangerous
to us; and I look on those fears to be merely imagi-
nary and without any probable foundation. The
Remarker is reserved in giving his reasons ; as, in his
opinion, this "is not a fit subject for discussion." I
shall give mine, because I conceive it a subject
necessary to be discussed; and the rather, as those
fears, how groundless and chimerical soever, may,
by possessing the multitude, possibly induce the
ablest ministry to conform to them against their own
judgment; and thereby prevent the assuring to the
British name and nation a stability and permanency,
that no man acquainted with history durst have
hoped for, till our American possessions opened the
pleasing prospect.

The Remarker thinks that our people in America,
" finding no check from Canada, would extend them-
selves almost without bounds into the inland parts,
and increase infinitely from all causes." The very
reason he assigns for their so extending, and which
is indeed the true one (their being " invited to it by
the pleasantness, fertility, and plenty of the coun-
try"), may satisfy us that this extension will con-
tinue to proceed as long as there remains any

1760] Benjamin Franklin
pleasant, fertile country within their reach. And if
we even suppose them confined by the waters of the
Mississippi westward, and by those of St. Lawrence
and the Lakes to the northward, yet still we shall
leave them room enough to increase, even in the
matter of settling now practised there, till they
amount to perhaps a hundred millions of souls.
This must take some centuries to fulfil ; and in the
mean time this nation must necessarily supply them
with the manufactures they consume; because the
new settlers will be employed in agriculture; and
the new settlements will so continually draw off the
spare hands from the old, that our present colonies
will not, during the period we have mentioned, find
themselves in a condition to manufacture, even for
their own inhabitants, to any considerable degree,
much less for those who are settling behind them.

Thus our trade must, till that country becomes as
fully peopled as England (that is, for centuries to
come), be continually increasing, and with it our
naval power; because the ocean is between us and
them, and our ships and seamen must increase as
that trade increases.

The human body and the political differ in this:
that the first is limited by nature to a certain stature,
which, when attained, it cannot ordinarily exceed;
the other, by better government and more prudent
policy, as well as by the change of manners, and
other circumstances, often takes fresh starts of
growth, after being long at a stand, and may add
tenfold to the dimensions it had for ages been con-
fined to. The mother, being of full stature, is in a

304 The Works of [1760

few years equalled by a growing daughter; but in the
case of a mother-country and her colonies, it is quite
different. The growth of the children tends to in-
crease the growth of the mother, and so the difference
and superiority are longer preserved. Were the in-
habitants of this island limited to their present num-
ber by any thing in nature, or by unchangeable
circumstances, the equality of population between
the two countries might indeed sooner come to pass ;
but sure experience, in those parts of the island where
manufactures have been introduced, teaches us that
people increase and multiply in proportion as the
means and facility of gaining a livelihood increase;
and that this island, if they could be employed, is
capable of supporting ten times the present number
of people.

In proportion, therefore, as the demand increases
for the manufactures of Britain, by the increase of
people in her colonies, the number of her people at
home will increase; and with them the strength as
well as the wealth of the nation. For satisfaction in
this point, let the reader compare in his mind the
number and force of our present fleets with our fleet
in Queen Elizabeth's time,1 before we had colonies.
Let him compare the ancient with the present state
of our towns on or near our western coast (Manches-
ter, Liverpool, Kendal, Lancaster, Glasgow, and the
countries round them) that trade with any manufac-
tures for our colonies (not to mention Leeds, Hali-
fax, Sheffield, and Birmingham), and consider what
a difference there is in the numbers of people, build-

1 Namely forty sail, none of more than forty guns.

1760] Benjamin Franklin 305

ings, rents, and the value of land and of the produce
of land ; even if he goes back no farther than is within
man's memory. Let him compare those countries
with others on the same island, where manufactures
have not yet extended themselves; observe the
present difference, and reflect how much greater our
strength may be, if numbers give strength, when our
manufactures shall occupy every part of the island
where they can possibly be subsisted.

But, say the objectors, " there is a certain distance
from the sea, in America, beyond which the expense
of carriage will put a stop to the sale and consump-
tion of your manufactures; and this, with the diffi-
culty of making returns for them, will oblige the in-
habitants to manufacture for themselves ; of course,
if you suffer your people to extend their settle-
ments beyond that distance, your people become
useless to you ' ' ; and this distance is limited by some
to two hundred miles, by others to the Appalachian
mountains.

Not to insist on a plain truth, that no part of a
dominion from whence a government may on occa-
sion draw supplies and aids both of men and money
(though at too great a distance to be supplied with
manufactures from some other part) is therefore to
be deemed useless to the whole, I shall endeavour to
show that these imaginary limits of utility, even in
point of commerce, are much too narrow. The in-
land parts of the continent of Europe are farther
from the sea than the limits of settlement proposed
for America. Germany is full of tradesmen and
artificers of all kinds, and the governments there,

VOL. III. — 20.

306 The Works of [1760

are not all of them always favorable to the commerce
of Britain; yet it is a well-known fact, that our manu-
factures find their way even into the heart of Ger-
many. Ask the great manufacturers and merchants
of the Leeds, Sheffield, Birmingham, Manchester, and
Norwich goods; and they will tell you that some of
them send their riders frequently through France or
Spain, and Italy, and up to Vienna, and back through
the middle and northern parts of Germany, to show
samples of their wares, and collect orders, which
they receive by almost every mail to a vast amount.
Whatever charges arise on the carriage of goods
are added to the value, and all paid by the con-
sumer.

If these nations, over whom we can have no gov-
ernment, over whose consumption we can have no
influence but what arises from the cheapness and
goodness of our wares, whose trade, manufactures, or
commercial connexions are not subject to the control
of our laws, as those of our colonies certainly are in
some degree, — I say, if these nations purchase and
consume such quantities of our goods, notwithstand-
ing the remoteness of their situation from the sea,
how much less likely is it that the settlers in Amer-
ica, who must for ages be employed in agriculture
chiefly, should make cheaper for themselves the
goods our manufacturers at present supply them
with, even if we suppose the carriage five, six, or
seven hundred miles from the sea as difficult and
expensive as the like distance into Germany, whereas
in the latter the natural distances are frequently
doubled by political obstructions — I mean the

1760] Benjamin Franklin 307

intermixed territories and clashing interests of
princes.1

But when we consider that the inland parts of
America are penetrated by great navigable rivers,
and there are a number of great lakes, communicat-
ing with each other, with those rivers, and with the
sea, very small portages here and there excepted 2 ;
that the sea-coasts (if one may be allowed the ex-
pression) of those lakes only amount at least to two
thousand seven hundred miles, exclusive of the
rivers running into them, many of which are navi-
gable to a great extent for boats and canoes, through
vast tracts of country; — how little likely is it that
the expense on the carriage of our goods into those
countries should prevent the use of them. If the
poor Indians in those remote parts are now able to
pay for the linen, woollen, and iron wares they are
at present furnished with by the French and English
traders, though Indians have nothing but what they
get by hunting, and the goods are loaded with all
the impositions fraud and knavery can contrive to

1 This was before the consolidation of Europe by the Bonapartes,
and when, as Sir C. Whitworth asserts in his State of Trade: "Each
state in Germany is jealous of its neighbours; and hence, rather than
facilitate the export or transmit of its neighbour's products or manu-
factures, they have all recourse to strangers."

2 From New York into Lake Ontario, the land-carriage of the several
portages altogether amounts to but about twenty-seven miles. From
Lake Ontario into Lake Erie, the land-carriage at Niagara is but
about twelve miles. All the lakes above Niagara communicate by
navigable straits, so that no land-carriage is necessary to go out of one
into another. From Presqu' Isle on Lake Erie there are but fifteen
miles land-carriage, and that a good wagon-road, to Beef River, a
branch of the Ohio, which brings you into a navigation of many thou-
sand miles inland, if you take together the Ohio, the Mississippi, and
all the great rivers and branches that run into them. — F.

308 The Works of [1760

enhance their value, will not industrious English
farmers, hereafter settled in those countries, be much
better able to pay for what shall be brought them
in the way of fair commerce?

If it is asked, What can such farmers raise, where-
with to pay for the manufactures they may want
from us ? I answer, that the inland parts of America
in question are well known to be fitted for the pro-
duction of hemp, flax, potash, and, above all, silk;
the southern parts may produce olive oil, raisins, cur-
rants, indigo, and cochineal; not to mention horses
and black cattle, which may easily be driven to the
maritime markets, and at the same time assist in
conveying other commodities. That the commodi-
ties first mentioned may easily, by water and land
carriage, be brought to the sea-ports from interior
America, will not seem incredible, when we reflect
that hemp formerly came from the Ukraine, the
most southern parts of Russia, to Wologda, and
down the Dwina to Archangel; and hence, by a
perilous navigation, round the North Cape to Eng-
land and other parts of Europe. It now comes from
the same country up the Dnieper, and down the
Duna, with much land-carriage. Great part of the
Russian iron, no high-priced commodity, is brought
three hundred miles by land and water from the
heart of Siberia. Furs (the produce too of America)
are brought to Amsterdam from all parts of Siberia,
even the most remote — Kamtschatka. The same
country furnishes me with another instance of ex-
tended inland commerce.

It is found worth while to keep up a mercantile

J76o] Benjamin Franklin 309

communication between Pekin in China and Peters-
burg. And none of these instances of inland com-
merce exceed those of the courses by which, at
several periods, the whole of the trade of the East was
carried on. Before the prosperity of the Mameluke
dominion in Egypt fixed the staple for the riches
of the East at Cairo and Alexandria (whither they
were brought from the Red Sea), great part of those
commodities were carried to the cities of Cashgar
and Balk. This gave birth to those towns, that still
subsist upon the remains of their ancient opulence,
amidst a people and country equally wild. From
thence those goods were carried down the Amu (the
ancient Oxus) to the Caspian Sea, and up the Wolga
to Astrachan; from whence they were carried over
to and down the Don, to the mouth of that river;
and thence again the Venetians directly, and the
Genoese and Venetians indirectly, by way of Karfa
and Trebisond, dispersed them through the Mediter-
ranean and some other parts of Europe.

Another part of those goods was carried over land
from the Wolga to the rivers Duna and Neva; from
both they were carried to the city by Wisbuy in the
Baltic (so eminent for its sea-laws); and from the
city of Ladoga on the Neva, we are told, they were
even carried by the Dwina to Archangel; and from
thence round the North Cape. If iron and hemp
will bear the charge of carriage from this inland
country, other metals will, as well as iron; and cer-
tainly silk, since three pence per pound is not above
one per cent, on the value, and amounts to twenty-
eight pounds per ton. If the growths of a country

3io The Works of [1760

find their way out of it, the manufactures of the
country where they go will infallibly find their way
into it.

They who understand the economy and principles
of manufactures, know that it is impossible to estab-
lish them in places not populous ; and, even in those
that are populous, hardly possible to establish them
to the prejudice of the places already in possession of
them. Several attempts have been made in France
and Spain, countenanced by government, to draw
from us, and establish in those countries, our hard-
ware and woollen manufactures, but without success.

The reasons are various. A manufacture* is part
of a great system of commerce, which takes in con-
veniences of various kinds: methods of providing
materials of all sorts, machines for expediting and
facilitating labor, all the channels of correspondence
for vending the wares, the credit and confidence
necessary to found and support this correspondence,
the mutual aid of different artisans, and a thousand
other particulars which time and long experience
have gradually established. A part of such a sys-
tem cannot support itself without the whole; and
before the whole can be obtained the part perishes.
Manufactures, where they are in perfection, are car-
ried on by multiplicity of hands, each of which is
expert only in his own part ; no one of them a master
of the whole ; and, if by any means spirited away to
a foreign country, he is lost without his fellows.
Then it is a matter of the extremest difficulty to
persuade a complete set of workmen, skilled in all
parts of a manufactory, to leave their country to-

1760] Benjamin Franklin 311

gether, and settle in a foreign land. Some of the
idle and drunken may be enticed away; but these
only disappoint their employers, and serve to dis-
courage the undertaking. If by royal munificence,
and an expense that the profits of the trade alone
would not bear, a complete set of good and skilful
hands are collected and carried over, they find so
much of the system imperfect, so many things want-
ing to carry on the trade to advantage, so many
difficulties to overcome, and the knot of hands so
easily broken by death, dissatisfaction, and deser-
tion, that they and their employers are discouraged
together, and the project vanishes into smoke.

Hence it happens that established manufactures
are hardly ever lost, but by foreign conquest, or by
some eminent interior fault in manners or govern-
ment— a bad police oppressing and discouraging the
workmen, or religious persecutions driving the sober
and industrious out of the country. There is, in
short, scarce a single instance in history of the con-
trary, where manufactures have once taken firm
root. They sometimes start up in a new place; but
are generally supported, like exotic plants, at more
expense than they are worth for any thing but
curiosity, until these new seats become the refuge
of the manufacturers driven from the old ones.

The conquest of Constantinople, and final reduc-
tion of the Greek empire, dispersed many curious
manufacturers into different parts of Christendom.
The former conquests of its provinces had before
done the same. The loss of liberty in Verona, Milan,
Florence, Pisa, Pistoia, and other great cities of

312 The Works of [1760

Italy, drove the manufacturers of woollen cloths into
Spain and Flanders. The latter first lost their trade
and manufactures to Antwerp and the cities of Bra-
bant; from whence, by persecution for religion, they
were sent into Holland and England; while the civil
wars, during the minority of Charles the First of
Spain, which ended in the loss of the liberty of their
great towns, ended too in the loss of the manufac-
tures of Toledo, Segovia, Salamanca, Medina del
Compo, &c. The revocation of the Edict of Nantz
communicated to all the Protestant part of Europe
the paper, silk, and other valuable manufactures of
France, almost peculiar at that time to that country,
and till then in vain attempted elsewhere.

To be convinced, that it is not soil and climate,
nor even freedom from taxes, that determines the
residence of manufactures, we need only turn our
eyes on Holland, where a multitude of manufactures
are still carried on, perhaps more than on the same
extent of territory anywhere in Europe, and sold on
terms upon which they cannot be had in any other
part of the world. And this too is true of those
growths which by their nature and the labor required
to raise them come the nearest to manufactures.

As to the commonplace objection to the North
American settlements, that they are in the same
climate, and their produce the same, as that of England:
In the first place, it is not true ; it is particularly not
so of the countries now likely to be added to our
settlements; and of our present colonies, the pro-
ducts— lumber, tobacco, rice, and indigo, great arti-
cles of commerce — do not interfere with the products

1760] Benjamin Franklin 313

of England. In the next place, a man must know
very little of the trade of the world, who does not
know that the greater part of it is carried on between
countries whose climates differ very little. Even
the trade between the different parts of these British
Islands is greatly superior to that between England
and all the West India Islands put together.

If I have been successful in proving that a consid-
erable commerce may and will subsist between us
and our future most inland settlements in North
America, notwithstanding their distance, I have
more than half proved that no other inconveniency
will arise from their distance. Many men in such a
country must "know," must "think," and must
"care" about the country they chiefly trade with.
The juridical and other connexions of government
are yet a faster hold than even commercial ties, and
spread, directly and indirectly, far and wide. Busi-
ness to be solicited and causes depending create a
great intercourse, even where private property is not
divided in different countries; yet this division will
always subsist where different countries are ruled by
the same government. Where a man has landed
property both in the mother country and the pro-
vince, he will almost always live in the mother coun-
try. This, though there were no trade, is singly a
sufficient gain. It is said that Ireland pays near a
million sterling annually to its absentees in England.
The balance of trade from Spain, or even Portugal,
is scarcely equal to this.

Let it not be said we have no absentees from North
America. There are many, to the writer's know-

314 The Works of [1760

ledge; and if there are at present but few of them
that distinguish themselves here by great expense,
it is owing to the mediocrity of fortune among the
inhabitants of the northern colonies, and a more equal
division of landed property than in the West India
Islands, so that there are as yet but few large estates.
But if those who have such estates reside upon and
take care of them themselves, are they worse sub-
jects than they would be if they lived idly in England ?
Great merit is assumed for the gentlemen of the
West Indies,1 on the score of their residing and
spending their money in England. I would not
depreciate that merit, — it is considerable; for they
might, if they pleased, spend their money in France ;
but the difference between their spending it here and
at home is not so great. What do they spend it in
when they are here, but the produce and manufac-
tures of this country? and would they not do the
same if they were at home? Is it of any great im-
portance to the English farmer, whether the West
India gentleman comes to London and eats his beef,
pork, and tongues, fresh, or has them brought to him
in the West Indies, salted? Whether he eats his
English cheese and butter, or drinks his English ale,
at London or in Barbadoes? Is the clothier's, or
the mercer's, or the cutler's, or the toyman's profit
less, for their goods being worn and consumed by the
same persons residing on the other side of the ocean ?
Would not the profits of the merchant and mariner
be rather greater, and some addition made to our
navigation, ships, and seamen ? If the North Ameri-

1 Remarks, pp. 47, 48, &c.

1760] Benjamin Franklin 315

can gentleman stays in his own country, and lives
there in that degree of luxury and expense, with
regard to the use of British manufactures, that his
fortune enables him to do, may not his example,
from the imitation of superiors so natural to man-
kind spread the use of those manufactures among
hundreds of families around him, and occasion a
much greater demand for them than it would do if
he should remove and live in London?

However this may be, if, in our views of immedi-
ate advantage, it seems preferable that the gentle-
men of large fortunes in North America should reside
much in England, it is what may surely be expected
as fast as such fortunes are acquired there. Their
having "colleges of their own for the education of
their youth, ' ' will not prevent it. A little knowledge
and learning acquired increases the appetite for
more, and will make the conversation of the learned
on this side the water more strongly desired. Ire-
land has its university likewise; yet this does not
prevent the immense pecuniary benefit we receive
from that kingdom. And there will always be, in the
conveniences of life, the politeness, the pleasures, the
magnificence of the reigning country, many other at-
tractions besides those of learning, to draw men of
substance there, where they can, apparently at least,
have the best bargain of happiness for their money.

Our trade to the West India Islands is undoubt-
edly a valuable one ; but whatever is the amount of
it, it has long been at a stand. Limited as our sugar
planters are by the scantiness of territory, they can-
not increase much beyond their present number;

316 The Works of [1760

and this is an evil, as I shall show hereafter, that will
be little helped by our keeping Guadaloupe.

The trade to our northern colonies is not only
greater, but yearly increasing with the increase of
the people; and even in a greater proportion, as the
people increase in wealth and the ability of spend-
ing, as well as in numbers.1 I have already said,

1 The writer has obtained accounts of the exports to North America
and the West India Islands, by which it appears that there has been
some increase of trade to those Islands, as well as to North America,
though in a much less degree. The following extract from these ac-
counts will show the reader, at one view, the amount of the exports
to each, in two different terms of five years; the terms taken at ten
years' distance from each other, to show the increase, viz. :

First term, from 1744 to 1748, inclusive.
Northern Colonies. West India Islands.

1744 £640,114 12 4 £796,112 17 9

1745 S34,3i6 2 5 5°3>669 19 9

1746 754,945 4 3 472,994 16 7

1747 726,648 5 5 856,463 18 6

1748 830,243 16 9 734,095 15 3

Total, £3,486,268 1 2 3-363,337 10 10

Difference, 122,930 10 4

£3,486,268 1 2
Second term, from 1754 to 1758, inclusive.

West India Islands.
£685,675 3 o
694,667 13 3
733-458 16 3
776,488 o 6
877,571 19 11

Total, £7,414,057 4 3 3,767,841 12 11

Difference, 3,646,215 11 4

Northern Colonies.
£1,246,615
11
1,177,848
10
1,428,720
10
1,727,924
10
1,832.948
10

£7,414,057 4 3

In the first term, total of West India Islands, £3,363,337 10 10

In the second term, ditto .... 3,767,841 12 11

Increase, only £404,504 2 1

In the first term, total for the northern colonies, 3, 486, 268 1 2

In the second term, ditto .... 7,414,057 4 3

Increase, £3,927,789 3 1

By these accounts it appears that the exports to the West India
Islands, and to the northern colonies, were in the first term nearly

1760] Benjamin Franklin 317

that our people in the northern colonies double in
about twenty-five years, exclusive of the accession
of strangers. That I speak within bounds, I appeal
to the authentic accounts frequently required by the
Board of Trade, and transmitted to that Board by
the respective governors; of which accounts I shall
select one as a sample, being that from the colony
of Rhode Island * ; a colony that of all the others
receives the least addition from strangers. For the

equal (the difference being only £122,930 10s. 4^.), and in the second
term, the exports to those islands had only increased £404,504 2s. id.
Whereas the increase to the northern colonies is £3,927,789 3s. id.,
almost four millions.

Some part of this increased demand for English goods may be
ascribed to the armies and fleets we have had both in North America
and the West Indies; and so much for what is consumed by the sol-
diery; their clothing, stores, ammunition, &c, sent from hence on
account of the government, being (as is supposed) not included in
these accounts of merchandise exported; but, as the war has occa-
sioned a great plenty of money in America, many of the inhabitants
have increased their expense.

N. B. — These accounts do not include any exports from Scotland to
America, which are doubtless proportionably considerable; nor the
exports from Ireland. — F.

Certain discrepancies in the above figures are hereby given as origi-
nally printed. — Editor.

1 Copy of the Report of Governor Hopkins to the Board of Trade, on
the Numbers of People in Rhode Island.

In obedience to your Lordship's commands, I have caused the
within account to be taken by officers under oath. By it there appears
to be in this colony at this time 35,939 white persons, and 4,697 blacks,
chiefly negroes.

In the year 1730, by order of the then Lords Commissioners of Trade
and Plantations, an account was taken of the number of people in
this colony, and then there appeared to be 15,302 white persons, and
2,633 blacks.

Again in the year 1748, by like order, an account was taken of the
number of people in this colony, by which it appears that there were
at that time 29,755 white persons and 4,373 blacks.

Stephen Hopkins.

Colony of Rhode Island, Dec. 24, 175s.

3i8

The Works of

[1760

increase of our trade to those colonies, I refer to the
accounts frequently laid before Parliament by the
officers of the customs, and to the custom-house
books; from which I have also selected one account,
that of the trade from England, exclusive of Scot-
land, to Pennsylvania ' ; a colony most remarkable
for the plain, frugal manner of living of its inhabit-
ants, and the most suspected of carrying on manu-
factures, on account of the number of German
artisans who are known to have transplanted them-
selves into that country; though even these, in truth,
when they come there, generally apply themselves
to agriculture, as the surest support and most ad-
vantageous employment.

By this account it appears, that the exports to
that province have, in twenty-eight years, increased
nearly in the proportion of seventeen to one ; whereas
the people themselves, who by other authentic ac-
counts appear to double their numbers (the strangers
who settle there included) in about sixteen years,

An Account of the Value of the Exports from England to Pennsyl-
vania in one Year, taken at different Periods, viz.

1723 they amounted

only to £15,992
4

1730 they were

48,592
5
56,690
7
75.295
4
82,404

i7
1752

201,666
11
268,426
6

N. B. — The accounts for 1758 and 1759 were not then completed;
but those acquainted with the North American trade know that the
increase in those two years had been in a still greater proportion, the
last year being supposed to exceed any former year by a third; and
this owing to the increased ability of the people to spend, from the
greater quantities of money circulating among them by the war.

1760] Benjamin Franklin 319

cannot in the twenty-eight years have increased in a
greater proportion than as four to one. The addi-
tional demand, then, and consumption of goods from
England, of thirteen parts in seventeen, more than
the additional number would require, must be ow-
ing to this: that the people, having by their in-
dustry mended their circumstances, are enabled to
indulge themselves in finer clothes, better furniture,
and a more general use of all our manufactures than
heretofore.

In fact, the occasion for English goods in North
America, and the inclination to have and use them,
is, and must be for ages to come, much greater than
the ability of the people to pay for them; they must
therefore, as they now do, deny themselves many
things they would otherwise choose to have, or in-
crease their industry to obtain them. And thus, if
they should at any time manufacture some coarse
article, which, on account of its bulk or some other
circumstance, cannot so well be brought to them
from Britain, it only enables them the better to pay
for finer goods, that otherwise they could not in-
dulge themselves in; so that the exports thither are
not diminished by such manufacture, but rather
increased. The single article of manufacture in these
colonies, mentioned by the Remarker, is hats made
in New England. It is true, there have been, ever
since the first settlement of that country, a few hat-
ters there, drawn thither probably at first by the
facility of getting beaver, while the woods were but
little cleared, and there was plenty of those animals.
The case is greatly altered now. The beaver skins

320 The Works of [1760

are not now to be had in New England, but from
very remote places and at great prices. The trade
is accordingly declining there ; so that, far from being
able to make hats in any quantity for exportation,
they cannot supply their own home demand ; and it
is well known that some thousand dozens are sent
thither yearly from London, Bristol, and Liverpool,
and sold cheaper than the inhabitants can make
them of equal goodness.

In fact, the colonies are so little suited for estab-
lishing of manufacture, that they are continually
losing the few branches they accidentally gain. The
working braziers, cutlers, and pewterers, as well as
hatters, who have happened to go over from time
to time and settle in the colonies, gradually drop the
working part of their business, and import their re-
spective goods from England, whence they can have
them cheaper and better than they can make them.
They continue their shops indeed, in the same way
of dealing; but become sellers of braziery, cutlery,
pewter, hats, &c, brought from England, instead of
being makers of those goods.

5. The American Colonies not dangerous in their Na-
ture to Great Britain.

Thus much as to the apprehension of our colonies
becoming useless to us. I shall next consider the
other supposition, that their growth may render
them dangerous. Of this, I own, I have not the least
conception, when I consider that we have already
fourteen separate governments on the maritime coast

i76o] Benjamin Franklin 321

of the continent; and, if we extend our settlements,
shall probably have as many more behind them on
the inland side. Those we now have are not only
under different governors, but have different forms
of government, different laws, different interests,
and some of them different religious persuasions and
different manners.

Their jealousy of each other is so great, that how-
ever necessary a union of the colonies has long been,
for their common defence and security against their
enemies, and how sensible soever each colony has
been of that necessity, yet they have never been
able to effect such a union among themselves, nor
even to agree in requesting the mother country to
establish it for them. Nothing but the immediate
command of the crown has been able to produce
even the imperfect union, but lately seen there, of
the forces of some colonies. If they could not agree
to unite for their defence against the French and
Indians, who were perpetually harassing their settle-
ments, burning their villages, and murdering their
people, can it reasonably be supposed there is any
danger of their uniting against their own nation,
which protects and encourages them, with which
they have so many connexions and ties of blood,
interest, and affection, and which, it is well known,
they all love much more than they love one an-
other?

In short, there are so many causes that must
operate to prevent it, that I will venture to say a
union amongst them for such a purpose is not merely
improbable, it is impossible. And if the union of

VOL. III.— 21

322 The Works of [1760

the whole is impossible, the attempt of a part must
be madness, as those colonies that did not join the
rebellion would join the mother country in suppress-
ing it. When I say such a union is impossible, I
mean without the most grievous tyranny and oppres-
sion. People who have property in a country which
they may lose, and privileges which they may en-
danger, are generally disposed to be quiet, and even
to bear much, rather than hazard all. While the
government is mild and just, while important civil
and religious rights are secure, such subjects will be
dutiful and obedient. The waves do not rise but when
the winds blow.

What such an administration as the Duke of
Alva's in the Netherlands might produce, I know
not ; but this, I think, I have a right to deem impos-
sible. And yet there were two very manifest differ-
ences between that case and ours; and both are in
our favor. The first, that Spain had already united
the seventeen provinces under one visible govern-
ment, though the States continued independent ; the
second, that the inhabitants of those provinces were
of a nation, not only different from, but utterly
unlike the Spaniards. Had the Netherlands been
peopled from Spain, the worst of oppression had
probably not provoked them to wish a separation of
government. It might, and probably would, have
ruined the country; but never would have produced
an independent sovereignty. In fact, neither the
very worst of governments, the worst of politics in
the last century, nor the total abolition of their re-
maining liberty, in the provinces of Spain itself, in

1760] Benjamin Franklin 323

the present, have produced any independency in
Spain that could be supported. The same may be
observed of France.

And let it not be said that the neighbourhood of
these to the seat of government has prevented a
separation. While our strength at sea continues, the
banks of the Ohio, in point of easy and expeditious
conveyance of troops, are nearer to London than
the remote parts of France and Spain to their respec-
tive capitals, and much nearer than Connaught and
Ulster were in the days of Queen Elizabeth. Nobody
foretells the dissolution of the Russian monarchy
from its extent ; yet I will venture to say the eastern
parts of it are already much more inaccessible from
Petersburg than the country on the Mississippi is
from London, — I mean, more men, in less time,
might be conveyed to the latter than the former dis-
tance. The rivers Oby, Jenessa, and Lena do not
facilitate the communication half so well by their
course, nor are they half so practicable as the Ameri-
can rivers. To this I shall only add the observation
of Machiavel, in his Prince: that a government sel-
dom long preserves its dominion over those who are
foreigners to it; who, on the other hand, fall with
great ease, and continue inseparably annexed to the
government of their own nation ; which he proves by
the fate of the English conquests in France. Yet
with all these disadvantages, so difficult is it to over-
turn an established government, that it was not
without the assistance of France and England that
the United Provinces supported themselves; which
teaches us that —

324 The Works of [1760

6. The French remaining in Canada, an Encourage-
ment to Disaffections in the British Colonies.
If they prove a Check, that Check of the most
barbarous Nature —

if the visionary danger of independence in our
colonies is to be feared, nothing is more likely to
render it substantial than the neighbourhood of for-
eigners at enmity with the sovereign governments,
capable of giving either aid,1 or an asylum, as the
event shall require. Yet against even these disad-
vantages, did Spain preserve almost ten provinces
merely through their want of union; which, indeed,
could never have taken place among the others, but

1 The aid Dr. Franklin alludes to must probably have consisted in
early and full supplies of arms, officers, intelligence, and trade of
export and of import, through the river St. Lawrence, on risks both
public and private; in the encouragement of splendid promises and a
great ally; in the passage from Canada to the back settlements being
shut to the British forces; in the quiet of the great body of Indians;
in the support of emissaries and discontented citizens; in loans and
subsidies to Congress, in ways profitable to France; in a refuge to be
granted them in case of defeat, in vacant lands, as settlers; in the
probability of war commencing earlier between England and France,
at the Gulf of St. Lawrence (when the shipping taken were rightfully
addressed to Frenchmen) than in the present case. All this might
have happened as soon as America's distaste of England had exceeded
the fear of the foreign nation ; a circumstance frequently seen possible
in history, and which the British ministers took care should not be
wanting.

This explanation would have been superfluous, had not the opinion
been very general in England, that had not the French been removed
from Canada, the revolt of America never would have taken place. Why,
then, were the French not left in Canada at the peace of 1763? Or,
since they were not left there, why was the American dispute begun ?
Yet, in one sense, perhaps this opinion is true; for had the French been
left in Canada, the English ministers would not only have sooner felt,
but sooner have seen, the strange fatality of their plans. — B. V.

1760] Benjamin Franklin 325

for causes, some of which are in our case impossible,
and others it is impious to suppose possible.

The Romans well understood that policy, which
teaches the security arising to the chief government
from separate States among the governed, when they
restored the liberties of the States of Greece (op-
pressed but united under Macedon) by an edict that
every State should live under its own laws.1 They
did not even name a governor. Independence of
each other and separate interests (though among a
people united by common manners, language, and I
may say religion; inferior neither in wisdom, brav-
ery, nor their love of liberty to the Romans them-
selves) were all the security the sovereigns wished
for their sovereignty.

It is true, they did not call themselves sovereigns;
they set no value on the title; they were contented
with possessing the thing. And possess it they did,
even without a standing army. What can be a
stronger proof of the security of their possession?
And yet, by a policy similar to this throughout, was
the Roman world subdued and held, a world com-
posed of above a hundred languages and sets of man-
ners, different from those of their masters.2 Yet

lWOmnes Graecorum civitates, quse in Europa, quagque in Asia
essent, libertatem ac suas leges haberent," etc. — Li v., lib. xxxiii.,
cap. 30.

2 When the Romans had subdued Macedon and Illyricum, they were
both formed into republics by a decree of the Senate, and Macedon was
thought safe from the danger of a revolution, by being divided into a
division common among the Romans, as we learn from the tetrarchs
in Scripture. " Omnium primum liberos esse placebat Macedonas
atque Illyrios; ut omnibus gentibus appareret, arma populi Romani
non liberis servitutem, sed contra servientibus libertatem afferre; ut

326 The Works of [1760

this dominion was unshakable, till the loss of liberty
and corruption of manners in the sovereign State
overturned it.

But what is the prudent policy inculcated by the
Remarker to obtain this end — security of dominion
over our colonies? It is, to leave the French in
Canada to "check" their growth; for otherwise, our
people may "increase infinitely from all causes."1
We have already seen in what manner the French
and their Indians check the growth of our colonies.
It is a modest word, this check, for massacring
men, women, and children! The writer would, if
he could, hide from himself, as well as from the
public, the horror arising from such a proposal, by
couching it in general terms. It is no wonder he
thought it a "subject not fit for discussion" in his
letter, though he recommends it as "a point that
should be the constant object of the minister's
attention ! ' '

But if Canada is restored on this principle, will
not Britain be guilty of all the blood to be shed, all
the murders to be committed, in order to check this
dreaded growth of our own people? Will not this
be telling the French in plain terms, that the horrid

et in libertate gentes quae essent, tutam earn sibi perpetuamque sub
tutela populi Romani esse; et, quas sub regibus viverent, et in presens
tempus mitiores eos justioresque respectu populi Romani habere se, et,
si quando bellum cum populo Romano regibus fuisset suis, exitum ejus

victoriam Romanis, sibi libertatem, allaturum crederent In

quatuor regiones describi Macedoniam, ut suum quaeque concilium
haberet, placuit; et dimidium tributi, quam quod regibus ferre soliti
erant, populo Romano pendere. Similia his et in Illyricum mandata."
— Liv., lib. xlv., cap. 18.
1 Remarks, pp. 50, 51.

1760] Benjamin Franklin 327

barbarities they perpetrate with Indians on our col-
onists are agreeable to us; and that they need not
apprehend the resentment of a government with
whose views they so happily concur? Will not the
colonies view it in this light ? Will they have reason
to consider themselves any longer as subjects and
children, when they find their cruel enemies hallooed
upon them by the country from whence they sprung ;
the government that owes them protection, as it
requires their obedience ? Is not this the most likely
means of driving them into the arms of the French,
who can invite them by an offer of security their
own government chooses not to afford them? I
would not be thought to insinuate that the Remarker
wants humanity. I know how little many good-
natured persons are affected by the distresses of
people at a distance, and whom they do not know.
There are even those who, being present, can sym-
pathize sincerely with the grief of a lady on the sud-
den death of a favorite bird, and yet can read of the
sinking of a city in Syria with very little concern.

If it be, after all, thought necessary to check the
growth of our colonies, give me leave to propose a
method less cruel. It is a method of which we have
an example in Scripture. The murder of husbands,
of wives, of brothers, sisters, and children, whose
pleasing society has been for some time enjoyed,
affects deeply the respective surviving relations; but
grief for the death of a child just born is short and
easily supported. The method I mean is that which
was dictated by the Egyptian policy, when the
"infinite increase" of the children of Israel was

328 The Works of [1760

apprehended as dangerous to the State.1 Let an act
of Parliament then be made, enjoining the colony
midwives to stifle in the birth every third or fourth
child. By this means you may keep the colonies to
their present size. And if they were under the hard
alternative of submitting to one or the other of these
schemes for checking their growth, I dare answer
for them, they would prefer the latter.

But all the debate about the propriety or impro-
priety of keeping or restoring Canada is possibly too
early. We have taken the capital indeed, but the
country is yet far from being in our possession; and
perhaps never will be; for, if our ministers are per-
suaded by such counsellors as the Remarker, that
the French there are "not the worst of neighbours,"
and that, if we had conquered Canada, we ought, for
our own sakes, to restore it, as a check to the growth
of our colonies, I am then afraid we shall never take
it. For there are many ways of avoiding the com-
pletion of the conquest, that will be less exception-
able and less odious than the giving it up.

7. Canada easily peopled without draining Great Brit-
ain of any of its Inhabitants.

The objection I have often heard, that, if we had
Canada, we could not people it without draining
Britain of its inhabitants, is founded on ignorance

1 "And Pharaoh said unto his people: Behold, the people of the
children of Israel are more and mightier than we. Come on, let us
deal wisely with them, lest they multiply, and it come to pass, that,
when there falleth out any war, they join also unto our enemies and
fight against us, and so get them up out of the land. And the king
spake to the Hebrew midwives," etc. — Exodus, ch. i.

1760] Benjamin Franklin 329

of the nature of population in new countries. When
we first began to colonize in America, it was neces-
sary to send people, and to send seed-corn; but it is
not now necessary that we should furnish, for a new
colony, either the one or the other. The annual in-
crement alone of our present colonies, without dimin-
ishing their numbers, or requiring a man from hence,
is sufficient in ten years to fill Canada with double
the number of English that it now has of French
inhabitants.1 Those who are Protestants among the
French will probably choose to remain under the
English government; many will choose to remove,
if they can be allowed to sell their lands, improve-
ments, and effects; the rest in that thin-settled
country will in less than half a century, from the
crowds of English settling round and among them,
be blended and incorporated with our people both in
language and manners.

8. The Merits of Guadaloupe to Great Britain over-
valued, yet likely to be paid much dearer for, than
Canada.

In Guadaloupe the case is somewhat different ; and
though I am far from thinking 2 we have sugar-land
enough,3 I cannot think Guadaloupe is so desirable

1 In fact, there have not gone from Britain itself to our colonies,
these twenty years past, to settle there, so many as ten families a year;
the new settlers are either the offspring of the old, or emigrants from
Germany or the north of Ireland.

2 Remarks, pp. 30, 34.

3 It is often said, we have plenty of sugar-land still unemployed in
Jamaica; but those who are well acquainted with that island know
that the remaining vacant land in it is generally situated among moun-
tains, rocks, and gullies, that make carriage impracticable, so that no

33° The Works of [1760

an increase of it, as other objects the enemy would
probably be infinitely more ready to part with. A
country, fully inhabited by any nation, is no proper
possession for another of different languages, man-
ners, and religion. It is hardly ever tenable at less
expense than it is worth. But the isle of Cayenne,
and its appendix, Equinoctial France, having but
very few inhabitants, and these therefore easily re-
moved, would indeed be an acquisition every way
suitable to our situation and desires. This would
hold all that migrate from Barbadoes, the Leeward
Islands, or Jamaica. It would certainly recall into
an English government, in which there would be
room for millions, all who have before settled or
purchased in Martinico, Guadaloupe, Santa Cruz, or
St. John's; except such as know not the value of an
English government, and such I am sure are not
worth recalling.

But should we keep Guadaloupe, we are told it
would enable us to export £300,000 in sugars. Ad-
mit it to be true, though perhaps the amazing increase
of English consumption might stop most of it here,
to whose profit is this to redound ? To the profit of
the French inhabitants of the island ; except a small
part, that should fall to the share of the English pur-
chasers, but whose whole purchase-money must first
be added to the wealth and circulation of France.
I grant, however, much of this £300,000 would be

profitable use can be made of it; unless the price of sugars should so
greatly increase, as to enable the planter to make very expensive
roads, by blowing up rocks, erecting bridges, &c, every two or three
hundred yards.

1760] Benjamin Franklin 331

expended in British manufactures. Perhaps, too, a
few of the land-owners of Guadaloupe might dwell
and spend their fortunes in Britain, though probably
much fewer than of the inhabitants of North Amer-
ica. I admit the advantage arising to us from these
circumstances, as far as they go, in the case of Guada-
loupe, as well as in that of our other West India
settlements. Yet even this consumption is little
better than that of an allied nation would be, who
should take our manufactures and supply us with
sugar, and put us to no great expense in defending
the place of growth.

But, though our own colonies expend among us
almost the whole produce of our sugar,1 can we, or
ought we to promise ourselves this will be the case
of Guadaloupe? One £100,000 will supply them
with British manufactures; and supposing we can
effectually prevent the introduction of those of
France, which is morally impossible in a country
used to them, the other £200,000 will still be spent
in France, in the education of their children and sup-
port of themselves; or else be laid up there, where
they will always think their home to be.

Besides this consumption of British manufactures,
much is said of the benfit we shall have from the
situation of Guadaloupe ; and we are told of a trade
to the Caraccas and Spanish Main. In what respect
Guadaloupe is better situated for this trade than
Jamaica, or even our other islands, I am at a loss to
guess. I believe it to be not so well situated for
that of the Windward coast, as Tobago and St.

1 Remarks, p. 47.

332 The Works of [1760

Lucia; which in this, as well as other respects,
would be more valuable possessions, and which, I
doubt not, the peace will secure to us. Nor is it
nearly so well situated for that of the rest of the
Spanish Main as Jamaica. As to the greater safety
of our trade by the possession of Guadaloupe, ex-
perience has convinced us that in reducing a single
island, or even more, we stop the privateering busi-
ness but little. Privateers still subsist, in equal if not
greater numbers, and carry the vessels into Martinico
which before it was more convenient to carry into
Guadaloupe. Had we all the Caribbees, it is true,
they would in those parts be without shelter.

Yet, upon the whole, I suppose it to be a doubtful
point, and well worth consideration, whether our
obtaining possession of all the Caribbees would be
more than a temporary benefit; as it would neces-
sarily soon fill the French part of Hispaniola with
French inhabitants, and thereby render it five times
more valuable in time of peace, and little less than
impregnable in time of war, and would probably end
in a few years in the uniting the whole of that great
and fertile island under a French government. It is
agreed on all hands, that our conquest of St. Christo-
pher's, and driving the French from thence, first
furnished Hispaniola with skilful and substantial
planters, and was consequently the first occasion of
its present opulence. On the other hand, I will
hazard an opinion, that, valuable as the French pos-
sessions in the West Indies are, and undeniable as the
advantages they derive from them, there is some-
what to be weighed in the opposite scale. They

1760] Benjamin Franklin 333

cannot at present make war with England, without
exposing those advantages, while divided among the
numerous islands they now have, much more than
they would were they possessed of St. Domingo only ;
their own share of which would, if well cultivated,
grow more sugar than is now grown in all their West
India Islands.

I have before said I do not deny the utility of the
conquest, or even of our future possession, of Guada-
loupe, if not bought too dear. The trade of the
West Indies is one of our most valuable trades. Our
possessions there deserve our greatest care and at-
tention. So do those of North America. I shall not
enter into the invidious task of comparing their due
estimation. It would be a very long and a very dis-
agreeable one, to run through every thing material
on this head. It is enough to our present point, if
I have shown that the value of North America is
capable of an immense increase, by an acquisition
and measures that must necessarily have an effect
the direct contrary of what we have been indus-
triously taught to fear; and that Guadaloupe is,
in point of advantage, but a very small addition to
our West India possessions; rendered many ways
less valuable to us than it is to the French, who will
probably set more value upon it than upon a country
[Canada] that is much more valuable to us than to
them.

There is a great deal more to be said on all the
parts of these subjects; but as it would carry me
into a detail that I fear would tire the patience of my
readers, and which I am not without apprehensions

334 The Works of [1760

I have done already, I shall reserve what remains
till I dare venture again on the indulgence of the
public.1

CXCI

TO LORD KAMES

Coventry, 27 September, 1760.

My Dear Lord: — We are here upon a journey,
which when first proposed was to have extended
farther than the season will now permit. We de-
signed going over to Ireland, and, having made the
tour of that country, we were to have crossed from
its northern part to Dumfries, or some other port on
your coast, which would have given us the pleasing
opportunity of seeing once more our friends in Scot-
land. This, if we could have left London early in
the summer; but the litigation between our pro-
vince and its Proprietor, in which we were engaged,
confined us in London till the middle of this month.
That cause is indeed at length ended, and in a great
degree to our satisfaction; but, by its continuing so
long, we are disappointed in our hopes of spending
some more happy days at Karnes with you and your
amiable family.

I do not pretend to charge this to your account as
a letter. It is rather to acknowledge myself in your
debt, and to promise payment. It is some time

1 Dr. Franklin is reported to have said that in writing this pam-
phlet he received considerable assistance from a learned friend, who,
it is stated, on the authority of William T. Franklin, was Richard
Jackson.

1760] Benjamin Franklin 335

since I received your obliging favor of June last.
When I return to London, which we intend after see-
ing Cheshire, Wales, Bristol, and spending some
time at Bath, I hope to be a more punctual corres-
pondent. I am your Lordship's most obedient and
humble servant,

B. Franklin.
P. S. — Our thanks to Lady Karnes for the receipt.
Enclosed we send the Chapter.1

CXCII

TO DAVID HUME

Coventry, 27 September, 1760.

Dear Sir: — I have too long postponed answering
your obliging letter, a fault I will not attempt to
excuse, but rather rely on your goodness to forgive
it, if I am more punctual for the future.

I am obliged to you for the favorable sentiments
you express of the pieces sent to you; though the
volume relating to our Pennsylvania affairs was not
written by me, nor any part of it, except the remarks
on the Proprietor's estimate of his estate, and some
of the inserted messages and reports of the Assembly,
which I wrote when at home, as a member of com-
mittees appointed by the House for that service.
The rest was by another hand.2

1 This "Chapter" was the Parable against Persecution, first pub-
lished by Lord Kames.

3 The treatise here mentioned is probably the Historical Review of
the Constitution and Government of Pennsylvania, which has hitherto

336 The Works of [1760

But though I am satisfied, by what you say, that
the Duke of Bedford was hearty in the scheme of the
expedition, I am not so clear that others in the ad-
ministration were equally in earnest in that matter.
It is certain, that after the Duke of Newcastle's first
orders to raise troops in the colonies, and promise to
send over commissions to the officers, with arms and
clothing for the men, we never had another syllable
from him for eighteen months ; during all which time
the army lay idle at Albany for want of orders and
necessaries ; and it began to be thought at last that,
if an expedition had ever been intended, the first
design and the orders given must, through the mul-
tiplicity of business here at home, have been quite
forgotten.1

I am not a little pleased to hear of your change
of sentiments in some particulars relating to Amer-
ica; because I think it of importance to our general
welfare, that the people of this nation should have
right notions of us, and I know no one that has it
more in his power to rectify their notions than Mr.
Hume. I have lately read with great pleasure, as I
do every thing of yours, the excellent Essay on the
Jealousy of Commerce. I think it cannot but have
a good effect in promoting a certain interest, too
little thought of by selfish man, and scarcely ever
mentioned, so that we hardly have a name for it;
I mean the interest of humanity, or common good of

been published in the various editions of Franklin's works as from
his pen. This letter to Hume removes all doubt that it was from an-
other hand, though there is no doubt that Franklin encouraged and
contributed to the expense of its publication. — Editor.

1 This was the expedition projected against Canada in the year 1 746.

1760] Benjamin Franklin

0>3,

mankind. But, I hope, particularly from that
Essay, an abatement of the jealousy, that reigns
here, of the commerce of the colonies, at least so far
as such abatement may be reasonable.

I thank you for your friendly admonition relating
to some unusual words in the pamphlet. It will be
of service to me. The "pejorate" and the "colon-
ize," since they are not in common use here, I give
up as bad ; for certainly in writings intended for per-
suasion and for general information, one cannot be
too clear; and every expression in the least obscure
is a fault. The " unshakeable" too, though clear, I
give up as rather low. The introducing new words,
where we are already possessed of old ones sufficiently
expressive, I confess must be generally wrong, as it
tends to change the language; yet, at the same
time, I cannot but wish the usage of our tongue per-
mitted making new words, when we want them, by
composition of old ones whose meanings are already
well understood. The German allows of it, and it
is a common practice with their writers. Many of
our present English words were originally so made;
and many of the Latin words. In point of clearness,
such compound words would have the advantage
of any we can borrow from the ancient or from for-
eign languages. For instance, the word inaccessible,
though long in use among us, is not yet, I dare say,
so universally understood by our people, as the word
uncomeatable would immediately be, which we are
not allowed to write. But I hope, with you, that we
shall always in America make the best English of
this Island our standard, and I believe it will be so.

VOL. III. — 22.

3$S The Works of [1760

I assure you it often gives me pleasure to reflect how
greatly the audience (if I may so term it) of a good
English writer will, in another century or two, be
increased by the increase of English people in our
colonies.

My son presents his respects with mine to you
and Dr. Monro. We received your printed circular
letter to the members of the Society,1 and purpose
some time next winter to send each of us a little
philosophical essay. With the greatest esteem, I
am, dear Sir, your most obedient and most humble
servant, B. Franklin.

CXCIII

TO JOHN BASKERVILLE a

Craven Street, London, 1760.

Dear Sir: — Let me give you a pleasant instance
of the prejudice some have entertained against your
work. Soon after I returned, discoursing with a
gentleman concerning the artists of Birmingham, he
said you would be a means of blinding all the readers

1 A Philosophical Society lately established at Edinburgh.

2 John Baskerville, a celebrated English printer, was born in the
year 1706. He inherited a small estate, and occupied himself for sev-
eral years in teaching a school at Birmingham. Possessing a taste for
painting, he entered into a lucrative branch of japanning, in which
business he continued for life, and acquired by it a fortune, which
made him independent. In the year 1750, he turned his thoughts
towards an improvement in type-founding and printing. Several
years were spent before he could produce such types as pleased him,
and he expended six hundred pounds in the process. The profits of
the undertaking, however, were not in proportion to the enterprise
and expense attending it; as will be seen by the following extract from

1760] Benjamin Franklin 339

in the nation; for the strokes of your letters, being
too thin and narrow, hurt the eye, and he could
never read a line of them without pain. ' ' I thought, ' '
said I, "you were going to complain of the gloss of
the paper, some object to." "No, no," says he, "I
have heard that mentioned, but it is not that; it is
in the form and cut of the letters themselves; they
have not that height and thickness of the stroke,
which make the common printing so much the
more comfortable to the eye." You see this gentle-
man was a connoisseur. In vain I endeavoured to

a letter which he wrote to Dr. Franklin, dated Birmingham, September
7, 1767. Dr. Franklin was at that time on a visit to Paris.

"After having obtained the reputation of excelling in the most use-
ful art known to mankind, of which I have your testimony, is it not
to the last degree provoking, that I cannot get even bread by it? I
must starve, had I no other dependence. I have offered the London
booksellers to print for them within five per cent as low as their common
currency, but cannot get from them a single job. I offered my whole
apparatus of letter- founding, printing, etc., to the Court of France by
the Duke de Nivernois, when he was ambassador here, for eight thou-
sand pounds, which was politely refused as being too large a sum.
Mr. Godfroy, who may be heard of at Mr. Sayde's, optician to the
King, lately told our good friend, Mr. Boulton, that France wished
to be possessed of my printing, &c, on moderate terms, in which I
heartily join.

" The intention of this is, therefore, to beg the favor of you to pro-
pose and recommend this affair, as Mr. Godfroy may point out the
way. I want only to set on foot a treaty; if they will not come to my
terms, I may possibly come to theirs. Suppose we reduce the price
to six thousand pounds. Louis the Fourteenth would have given
three times that sum, or Czar Peter. Let the reason of my parting
with it be, the death of my son and intended successor, and, having
acquired a moderate fortune, I wish to consult my ease in the after-
noon of life, as I am now turned of sixty."

The French government did not accept the offer. Baskerville died
on the 8th of January, 1775. In the year 1779, his types were pur-
chased by a literary Society in Paris for £3700, and were employed in
printing Beaumarchais' edition of Voltaire.

34° The Works of [1760

support your character against the charge ; he knew
what he felt, and could see the reason of it, and sev-
eral other gentlemen among his friends had made
the same observation, &c.

Yesterday he called to visit me, when, mischiev-
ously bent to try his judgment, I stepped into my
closet, tore off the top of Mr. Caslon's specimen, and
produced it to him as yours, brought with me from
Birmingham, saying, I had been examining it, since
he spoke to me, and could not for my life perceive
the disproportion he mentioned, desiring him to
point it out to me. He readily undertook it, and
went over the several fonts, showing me everywhere
what he thought instances of that disproportion, and
declared that he could not then read the specimen
without feeling very strongly the pain he had men-
tioned to me. I spared him that time the confusion
of being told that these were the types he had been
reading all his life with so much ease to his eyes, the
types his adored Newton is printed with, on which
he has pored not a little; nay, the very types his
own book is printed with (for he is himself an au-
thor), and yet never discovered this painful dispro-
portion in them, till he thought they were yours. I
am, &c, B. Franklin.

CXCIV

TO MRS. DEBORAH FRANKLIN

London, 1760.

My Dear Child: — Yesterday I received your let-
ter of February 10th, in which you mention that it

1760] Benjamin Franklin 341

was some months since you heard from me. During
my journey I wrote several times to you, particularly
from Liverpool and Glasgow, and since my return
some very long letters, that might have been with
you before your last to me, but I suppose the severe
winter on your coast, among other delays, has kept
the vessels out. One packet, Bonnel, was blown
quite back to England.

I am sorry for the death of your black boy, as you
seem to have had a regard for him. You must have
suffered a great deal in the fatigue of nursing him

in such a distemper. F has wrote me a very

idle letter, desiring me not to furnish the woman,
pretending to be his wife, with any thing on his
account, and says the letters she shows are a forgery.
But I have one she left with me, in which he acknow-
ledges her to be his wife, and the children his, and
I am sure it is his handwriting by comparing it
with this he has now wrote to me and a former one.
So he must be a very bad man, and I am glad
I never knew him. She was sick and perishing
with her children in the beginning of the winter,
and has had of me in all about four guineas.
What is become of her now, I know not. She
seemed a very helpless body, and I found her in
some falsehoods that disgusted me; but I pitied
the poor children, the more as they were descended,
though remotely, from our good old friends, whom
you remember.

I have now the pleasure to acquaint you that our
business draws near a conclusion, and that in less
than a month we shall have a hearing, after which

342 The Works of [1760

I shall be able to fix a time for my return.1 My
love to all, from, dear Debby, your affectionate
husband, B. Franklin.

cxcv

TO THE PRINTER OF THE LONDON CHRONICLE

Sir: — I met lately with an old quarto book on a
stall, the titlepage and the author's name wanting,
but containing discourses, addressed to some king
of Spain, extolling the greatness of monarchy, trans-
lated into English, and said in the last leaf to be
printed at London, by Bonham Norton and John
Bill, " Printers to the King's most excellent Majestie,
MDCXXIX." The author appears to have been a
Jesuit, for, speaking of that order in two places, he
calls it our Society. Give me leave to communicate
to the public a chapter of it, so apropos to our pres-
ent situation (only changing Spain for France), that
I think it well worth general attention and observa-
tion, as it discovers the arts of our enemies, and may
therefore help in some degree to put us on our guard
against them.

What effect the artifices here recommended might
have had in the times when our author wrote, I can-
not pretend to say; but I believe, the present age
being more enlightened and our people better ac-
quainted than formerly with our true national in-
terest, such arts can now hardly prove so generally

1 The business was not concluded so soon as he anticipated. The
hearing came on, but a strong opposition was made by the Proprietors'
counsel against the Pennsylvania claims.

1760] Benjamin Franklin 343

successful; for we may with pleasure observe, and
to the honor of the British people, that, though writ-
ings and discourses like these have lately not been
wanting, yet few in any of the classes he particular-
izes seem to be affected by them, but all ranks and
degrees among us persist hitherto in declaring for a
vigorous prosecution of the war, in preference to an
unsafe, disadvantageous, or dishonorable peace ; yet,
as a little change of fortune may make such writings
more attended to, and give them greater weight, I
think the publication of this piece, as it shows the
spring from whence these scribblers draw their pois-
oned waters, may be of public utility.

A Briton.

"Chap. XXXIV

" On the Means of disposing the Enemie to Peace.

"Warres, with whatsoever Prudence undertaken,
and conducted, do not always succeed. Many
Thinges out of Man's Power to governe, such as
Dearth of Provision, Tempests, Pestilence, and the
like, oftentimes interfering and totally overthrowing
the best Designes; so that these Enemies (England
and Holland) of our Monarchy though apparently
at first the weaker, may by disastrous Events of
Warre, on our Parte, become the stronger, and
though not in such degree as to endanger the Bodie
of this great Kingdom, yet, by their greater Power
of Shipping and Aptness in Sea Affairs, to be able
to cut off, if I may so speake, some of its smaller
Limbs and Members that are remote therefrom and

344 The Works of [1760

not easily defended, to wit, our Islands and Colonies
in the Indies; thereby however depriving the Bodie
of its wonted Nourishment, so that it must thence-
forthe languish and grow weake, if those Parts are
not recovered, which possibly may by continuance
of Warre be found unlikelie to be done. And the
Enemie, puffed up with their successes, and hoping
still for more, may not be disposed to Peace on such
Termes as would be suitable to the honor of your
Majestie, and to the Welfare of your State and Sub-
jects. In such Case, the following Meanes may have
good Effect.

"It is well knowne, that these Northerne People,
though hardie of Bodie and bold in Fight, be never-
theless, through overmuch Eating and other Intem-
perance, slowe of Wit, and dull in Understanding, so
that they are ofttimes more easilie to be governed
and turned by Skill than by Force. There is, there-
fore, always Hope that, by wise Counsel and dexter-
ous Management, those Advantages, which through
cross Accidents in Warre have been lost, may again
with Honour be recovered. In this Place I shall say
little of the Power of Money secretly distributed
among Grandees, or their Friends or Paramours;
that Method being in all Ages known and practised.
If the minds of Enemies can be changed, they may be
brought to grant willingly and for nothing what
much Gold would scarcely have otherwise prevailed
to obtaine. Yet, as the procuring this Change is to
be by fitte Instruments, some few Doubloones will
not unprofitably be distributed by your Majestie.
The manner whereof I shall now briefly recite.

j76o] Benjamin Franklin 345

" In those Countries, and particularly in England,
there are not wanting Menne of Learning, ingenious
Speakers and Writers, who are nevertheless in lowe
Estate, and pinched by Fortune. These, being pri-
vately gained by proper Meanes, must be instructed
in their Sermons, Discourses, Writings, Poems, and
Songs, to handle and specially inculcate Points like
these which folio we. Let them magnifie the Bless-
ings of Peace, and enlarge mightilie thereon, which
is not unbecoming grave Divines and other Christian
Menne. Let them expatiate on the Miseries of
Warre, the Waste of Christian Blood, the growing
Scarcitie of Labourers and Workmen, the Dearness
of all foreign Wares and Merchandise, the Interrup-
tion of Commerce, the Captures of Ships, the Increase
and great Burthen of Taxes. Let them represent
the Warre as an unmeasurable Advantage to Par-
ticulars, and to Particulars only (thereby to excite
en vie against those, who manage and provide for the
same), while so prejudicial to the Commonweale and
People in general. Let them represent the Advan-
tages gained against us, as trivial and of little Im-
port; the Places taken from us, as of small Trade
and Produce, inconvenient for Situation, unwhole-
some for Ayre and Climate, useless to their Nations,
and greatlie chargeable to keepe, draining the home
Countrie both of Menne and Money.

" Let them urge, that, if a Peace be forced on us,
and those Places withheld, it will nourishe secret
Griefe and Malice in the King and Grandees of
Spain, which will ere long breake forthe in new
Warres, when those Places may again be retaken,

346 The Works of [1760

without the Merit and Grace of restoring them will-
ingly for Peace's Sake. Let them represent the
making or Continuance of Warres, from views of
Gaine, to be base and unworthy a brave People, as
those made from Views of Ambition are mad and
wicked. Let them insinuate, that the Continuance
of the present Warre, on their Parte, hath these In-
gredients in its Nature. Then let them magnifie the
great Power of your Majestie, and the Strength of
your Kingdome, the inexhaustible Wealthe of your
Mines, the Greatness of your Incomes, and thence
your Abilitie of continuing the Warre; hinting
withal the new Alliances you may possiblie make;
at the same time setting forth the sincere Disposi-
tion you have for Peace, and that it is only a Con-
cerne for your Honor, and the Honor of your Realme,
that induceth you to insist on the Restitution of the
places taken.

" If, with all this, they shrewdly intimate, and
cause it to be understood by artful Wordes and be-
lieved, that their own Prince is himself in Heart for
Peace, on your Majestie's Termes, and grieved at
the Obstinacy and Perverseness of those among his
People, who are for continuing the Warre, a marvel-
lous Effect shall by these Discourses and Writings
be produced; and a wonderful strong Partie shall
your Majestie raise among your Enemies in Favour
of the Peace you desire; insomuch that their own
Princes and wisest Counsellours will in a Sorte be
constrained to yeeld thereto. For, in this Warre of
Wordes, the Avarice and Ambition, the Hope and
Fears, and all the Crowd of humane Passions will

1760] Benjamin Franklin 347

be raised and put in Array to fight for your Interests
against the reall and substantiall Interest of their
own Countries. The simple and undiscerning Many
shall be carried away by the Plausibilitie and Well-
seeming of these Discourses; and the Opinions be-
coming more popular, all the Rich Menne, who have
great Possessions, and fear the Continuance of Taxes,
and hope Peace will end them, shall be emboldened
thereby to crie aloud for Peace; their Dependents,
who are many, must do the same.

" All Merchaunts, fearing Loss of Ships and greater
Burthens on Trade by further Duties and Subsidies,
and hoping greater Profits by the ending of the
Warre, shall join in the crie for Peace. All the
Usurers and Lenders of Money to the State, who on
a Peace hope great Profits on their Bargains, and
fear if the Warre be continued the State shall become
bankeroute, and unable to pay them; these, who
have no small Weighte, shall join the crie for Peace.
All, who maligne the bold Conductors of the Warre,
and envie the Glorie they may have thereby ob-
tained ; these shall crie aloud for Peace, hoping, that,
when the Warre shall cease, such Menne becoming
less necessarie shall be more lightly esteemed, and
themselves more sought after. All the Officers of
the Enemie's Armies and Fleets, who wish for Re-
pose and to enjoy their Salaries or Rewardes in
Quietnesse and without Peril; these, and their
Friends and Families, who desire their Safetie and
the Solace of their Societie, shall all crie for Peace.

" All those, who be timorous by Nature, amongste
whom be reckoned Menne of Learning that lead

348 The Works of [1761

sedentarie Lives, doing little Exercise of Bodie, and
thence obtaining but few and weake Spirits; great
Statesmen, whose natural Spirits be exhausted by
much Thinking, or depressed by overmuch Feasting ;
together with all Women, whose Power, weake as
they are, is not a little amongste the Menne; these
shall incessantly speake for Peace. And finally all
Courtiers, who suppose they conforme thereby to
the Inclinations of the Prince (ad Exemplum Regis,
&c); all who are in Places, fear to lose them, or
hope for better ; all who are out of Places, and hope
to obtaine them; with all the worldly minded
Clergy, who seeke Preferment; these, with all the
Weigh te of their Character and Influence, shall join
the crie for Peace; till it becomes one universal
Clamour, and no Sound, but that of Peace, Peace,
Peace, shall be heard from every Quarter.

"Then shall your Majestie's Termes of Peace be
listened to with much readinesse, the Places taken
from you be willingly restored, and your Kingdome,
recovering its Strength, shall only need to waite a
few Years for more favourable Occasions, when the
Advantages to your Power, proposed by beginning
the Warre, but lost by its bad Successe, shall, with
better Fortune, be finally obtained."

CXCVI

TO HUGH ROBERTS

London, 26 February, 1761.

Dear Friend: — I think I have before acknow-
ledged the receipt of your favor of the 15th of the

1761] Benjamin Franklin 349

5th month, 1760. (I use your own notation, be-
cause I cannot tell what month it was, without reck-
oning.) I thank you for it, however, once more. I
received it by the hand of your son, and had the
pleasure withal of seeing him grown up a solid, sen-
sible young man. You will have, I see, a great deal
of satisfaction in him, and I congratulate you cor-
dially on that head.

I was glad to hear that the Hospital is still sup-
ported. I write to the managers by this ship. In
my journeys through England and Scotland I have
visited several of the same kind, which I think were
all in a good way. I send you by this ship sundry of
their accounts and rules, which were given me. Pos-
sibly you may find a useful hint or two in some of
them. I believe we shall be able to make a small
collection here ; but I cannot promise it will be very
considerable.

You tell me you sometimes visit the ancient
Junto. I wish you would do it oftener. I know
they all love and respect you, and regret your ab-
senting yourself so much. People are apt to grow
strange, and not understand one another so well,
when they meet but seldom. Since we have held
that Club till we are grown gray together, let us hold
it out to the end. For my own part, I find I love
company, chat, a laugh, a glass, and even a song,
as well as ever, and at the same time relish bet-
ter than I used to do the grave observations and
wise sentences of old men's conversation; so that
I am sure the Junto will be still as agreeable to me
as it ever has been. I therefore hope it will not

35° The Works of [1761

be discontinued as long as we are able to crawl

together.1

I thank you for the frequent kind visits you are

so good as to make to my little family. I now hope

in a little time to have the pleasure of seeing them,

and thanking my friends in person. With the sin-

cerest esteem and regard, I am, dear friend, yours

affectionately,

B. Franklin.

CXCVII

TO MISS MARY STEVENSON

Craven Street, Monday, 30 March, 1761.

My Dear Friend: — Supposing the fact that the
water of the well at Bristol is warmer after some

1 One of Franklin's songs for the Junto, of a political complexion,
has been found among his manuscripts, which was probably written
about the time of the Stamp Act, or a little later. The allusion to
France, in the last stanza but one, would seem to refer to that period.
The author was then in England, and it is not known for what occa-
sion the song was composed.

THE MOTHER COUNTRY A SONG.

" We have an old mother that peevish has grown;
She snubs us like children that scarce walk alone;
She forgets we 're grown up and have sense of our own,
Which nobody can deny, deny,
Which nobody can deny.

" If we don't obey orders, whatever the case,
She frowns, and she chides, and she loses all pati-
Ence, and sometimes she hits us a slap in the face,
Which nobody can deny, &c.

" Her orders so odd are, we often suspect
That age has impaired her sound intellect;

1761] Benjamin Franklin 351

time pumping, I think your manner of accounting
for that increased warmth very ingenious and prob-
able. It did not occur to me, and therefore I doubted
of the fact.

You are, I think, quite right in your opinion, that
the rising of the tides in rivers is not owing to the
immediate influence of the moon on the rivers. It
is rather a subsequent effect of the influence of the
moon on the sea, and does not make its appearance
in some rivers till the moon has long passed by. I
have not expressed myself clearly, if you have un-
derstood me to mean otherwise. You know I have
mentioned it as a fact, that there are in some rivers
several tides all existing at the same time; that is,
two, three, or more high-waters, and as many low-
waters, in different parts of the same river, which
cannot possibly be all effects of the moon's imme-
diate action on that river, but they may be subse-
quent effects of her action on the sea.

In the enclosed paper you will find my sentiments

But still an old mother should have due respect,
Which nobody can deny, &c.

" Let 's bear with her humors as well as we can;
But why should we bear the abuse of her man?
When servants make mischief, they earn the rattan,
Which nobody should deny, &c.

" Know too, ye bad neighbours, who aim to divide
The sons from the mother, that still she 's our pride;
And if ye attack her we 're all of her side,
Which nobody can deny, &c.

" We '11 join in her lawsuits, to baffle all those,
Who, to get what she has, will be often her foes;
For we know it must all be our own, when she goes,
Which nobody can deny, deny,
Which nobody can deny."

352 The Works of [1761

on several points relating to the air and the evapora-
tion of water. It is Mr. Collinson's copy, who took
it from one I sent through his hands to a correspond-
ent in France some years since ; I have, as he desired
me, corrected the mistakes he made in transcribing,
and must return it to him ; but if you think it worth
while you may take a copy of it. I would have
saved you any trouble of that kind, but had not
time.

Some day in the next or the following week I pur-
pose to have the pleasure of seeing you at Wanstead.
I shall accompany your good mamma thither, and
stay till the next morning, if it may be done without
incommoding your family too much. We may then
discourse any points in that paper that do not seem
clear to you, and, taking a walk to Lord Tilney's
ponds, make a few experiments there to explain the
nature of the tides more fully. In the mean time,
believe me to be, with the highest esteem and
regard,

Your sincerely affectionate friend,

B. Franklin.

CXCVIII

TO JOSIAH QUINCY

London, 8 April, 1761.

Dear Sir: — I received your very obliging letter
of December 25th, by the hand of your valuable
son, who had before favored me now and then with

1761] Benjamin Franklin 353

a kind visit. I congratulate you on his account, as
I am sure you must have a great deal of satisfaction
in him. His ingenuous, manly, and generous be-
haviour, in a transaction here with the Society of
Arts, gave me great pleasure, as it was much to his
reputation.1

I am glad my weak endeavours for our common
interest were acceptable to you and my American
friends. I shall be very happy indeed if any good
arises from them. The people in power here do
now seem convinced of the truth of the principles I
have inculcated, and incline to act upon them; but
how far they will be able to do so at a peace, is still
uncertain, especially as the war in Germany grows
daily less favorable to us. My kinsman, Williams,
was but ill informed in the account he gave you of
my situation here. The Assembly voted me fifteen
hundred pounds sterling when I left Philadelphia,
to defray the expense of my voyage and negotia-
tions in England, since which they have given
nothing more, though I have been here near four
years. They will, I make no doubt, on winding up
the affair, do what is just; but they cannot afford
to be extravagant, as that report would make
them.

Pray make my best respects acceptable to your
amiable family, and do me the justice to believe
that no one more sincerely wishes a continuance

1 The gentleman here mentioned was Edmund Quincy, a merchant
of Boston and the eldest son of Josiah Quincy. He had been in trade
several years, and went to London to arrange a mercantile correspond-
ence there. He died at sea, March 31, 1768, on his homeward voyage
from the West Indies, at the age of thirty-five.

VOL. HI.— 23.

354 The Works of [1761

of your happiness than, dear friend, yours most
affectionately,

B. Franklin.1

CXCIX

TO HENRY POTTS, ESQ.

Craven Street, 23d April, 1761.

Sir: — In obedience to the commands of His Ma-
jesty's Postmaster General, signified to me by you,
I have considered Governor Boone's letter to My
Lord Bessborough, and the extract of his letter to
John Pownall, Esq., Secretary to the Board of
Trade, containing a complaint of some inconven-
iency to him, arising from "the posts not passing
through Perth Amboy and Burlington (the route
established by Act of Parliament) in their way be-
tween Philadelphia and New York ' ' ; and alledging,
that "thro' this omission it has happened and may
happen again that dispatches received by him from
the plantation office could not be answered by the
first pacquet, whence he may sometimes appear
tardy to their lordships with all the inclination to be
otherwise, etc."

It is true that the post route was thro' the towns
of Burlington and Amboy in New Jersey, before and

1 Josiah Quincy, to whom the above letter was written, resided in
Braintree, Mass., and was the father of the distinguished patriot,
Josiah Quincy, Jr., who will be mentioned hereafter. An early ac-
quaintance and attachment had been formed between Mr. Quincy, the
father, and Dr. Franklin, the particulars of which are described by the
latter in his autobiography.

1761] Benjamin Franklin 355

at the time of making the Act of Queen Anne for
establishing the post office, and therefore those
towns were mentioned in the Act, so far as to settle
the rates of postage between them and the cities of
New York and Philadelphia; but it has never been
understood that the route was established by such
mention of those places, or that the Act bound the
post-office to continue the posts in any route then
used, if one better and more convenient could be
found. Nor, indeed, would such restraints in an
Act of Parliament relating to America be of utility,
but the contrary. For our first settlements there
being near the sea, the first roads are of course along
the coast where interrupting waters from bays and
inlets are more frequent, and rivers wider and more
difficult of passage; but in process of time, as the
people settle farther back and clear the upland coun-
try, more convenient roads are found, the bays and
inlets avoided, and the interruption of ferries less
frequent, as many rivers are fordable up the country
that cannot be cross 'd near their mouths but in
boats.

Something like this has been the case with regard
to the old and new roads thro' the province of New
Jersey. As soon as the new road in the upper parts
of that province was open'd travellers between
Philadelphia and New York began gradually to
abandon the old road, which was not so convenient;
and after some time, on an application made to Col.
Spotswood, then deputy postmaster-general, the
post route was also chang'd from the old road to the
new.

356 The Works of [1761

This change was made about thirty years ago and
some years before I had any concern in the office;
but as it was a matter much talk'd of at the time, I
remember well the reasons that were given for the
change which were these, viz. :

That the ferry over the River Delaware from Bris-
tol to Burlington, to be pass'd in travelling the old
road, was a mile and half wide, and in winter often
incumbered with ice, so as greatly to delay the post:
that the old road, from Burlington to Amboy, was
for 50 miles chiefly a heavy loose sand, very fatigu-
ing to the horses; that being thro' a barren country,
it was not well-inhabited, nor the inns well supply 'd
with provisions; that being less travelled than for-
merly, there was not the same care taken to provide
suitable accommodations for travellers, so that no
gentlemen passing between New York and Phila-
delphia, tho' desirous of riding post, could well
travel with him : that this gradual disuse of the road
occasioned less care to be taken of the bridges,
which were often out of repair, so that in rainy
seasons, crossing the brooks and branches of rivers
became dangerous and sometimes impracticable, to
the great delay and injury of travellers: that the
ferry over to Amboy, necessary to be pass'd on this
road, was near two miles wide, being at the mouth
of the Raritan River, and often so rough from high
winds, or so incumbered with ice as to be impassable
for many hours, to the great delay of the post as
well as other travellers : and after the post was got
to Amboy, he had still three large ferries to cross
between that place and New York, viz.: the ferry

1761] Benjamin Franklin 357

over to Staten Island, the ferry from Staten Island
to Long Island, 3 miles wide, and the ferry from
Long Island to New York; in all which places the
ferrymen were generally very dilatory, and back-
ward to carry the post in bad weather, availing them-
selves of every excuse, as they were by law to re-
ceive no ferriage of him. On the other hand the new
road was over better ground and kept in better
repair; there were everywhere good accommoda-
tions at the inns; Delaware River was to be cross 'd
at Trenton and Raritan River at Brunswick, where
they were both narrow, and the latter fordable at
low water; and the people at Elizabeth Town Point
undertook voluntarily to have a stout boat always
ready to carry the post and his company directly to
New York, by which the three last mentioned ferries
were avoided.

The change being accordingly made, the post went
no more thro' Burlington and Amboy; but those
places on that account suffered very little inconven-
iency, for an office was still continu'd at each of
them, and their letters sent over to proper places on
the new post road, to be carried forward by the post ;
and this was easy to do, it being only cross the ferry
from Burlington to Bristol, thro' which the post
goes, and but 4 miles from Amboy to Woodbridge
thro' which he also goes. And the letters for Bur-
lington were in like manner sent over to that office
from Bristol, and those for Amboy sent to that
office from Woodbridge. Tho' the letters to and
from each place by post were always extremely few,
as they are towns of little or no foreign trade, the

358 The Works of [1761

chief dealing with Amboy being with New York, and
that of Burlington with Philadelphia, to and from
which places boats are going almost every day, by
which they always chose to send their letters, even
when the post pass'd thro' them. On the other
hand, two other large and thriving towns, who make
much more use of the post, are accommodated by it
on the New York road, viz., Trenton and Bruns-
wick; not to mention Prince Town, where a college
is lately erected, Woodbridge and Elizabeth Town,
thro' all of which places the new road passes, and
where offices have been long established.

It is now near 24 years that I have been concern 'd
in the management of the offices between Philadel-
phia and New York, and in all that time have had
no complaint made to me of inconvenience from the
posts continuing the route I found them in. And
I must own myself at a loss to conceive the difficulty
Governor Boone mentions of his corresponding regu-
larly with the Board of Trade, and that " dispatches
receiv'd from their Lordships could not be answered
by the first pacquet, thro' the posts' omission of
Burlington and Amboy in their route." His Excel-
lency resides at Amboy, and the letters for him
which arrive at New York in the pacquet, must be
forwarded to him at farthest within three days, as
the post goes from New York twice a week and
passes within four miles of Amboy at Woodbridge,
where the Governor's letters are left, and sent to him
immediately by a special messenger from the office
there; the post returns twice a week from Philadel-
phia to New York, and passing thro' Woodbridge,

1761] Benjamin Franklin 359

takes up and carries forward any letters left there.
The pacquet stays at New York at least 20 days, and
during that time the post passes 6 times thro' Wood-
bridge to New York, and would carry forward any
letters the Governor should lodge at Woodbridge for
that purpose. And if he happens to be at Burling-
ton with his Assembly the post passes equally often
thro' Bristol (within a mile and a half of him, only
just cross a ferry), where it cannot be much trouble
to send his letters. So that on the whole I am per-
suaded it must appear, when duly considered, that
his Excellency's want of punctuality in his corres-
pondence with their Lordships cannot justly be
charged to the account of the post-office. Mr. Bar-
nard, immediate predecessor of Governor Boone,
tho' he also lived at Amboy, made no complaint of
this kind that I ever heard of. Nor did the next
preceding Governor Belcher, tho' he lived great part
of his time at Burlington. The governors of New
Jersey have sometimes liv'd on the new road, at
Trenton and at Elizabeth Town; and as there is no
fixed place of residence for governors in that pro-
vince, future governors may happen to chuse some
of the towns on the new road; so that if the post
route were chang'd to gratify Governor Boone, the
next governor might desire to have it back again.
And I apprehend that the delays formerly experi-
enced so frequently in the detention of the post by
the wide ferries in the winter, would, if the old route
was resumed, occasion great dissatisfaction to the
governors of Pennsylvania, New York and New
England, who, as well as the merchants of their

360 The Works of [1761

great trading towns would probably remonstrate
warmly against it.

Nevertheless, if His Majesty's Postmaster General
should upon the whole think fit to order the old
route to be resumed, and the new one with all the
offices so long established upon it to be drop't, it is
my duty to carry their orders into execution, which
I shall do with great readiness and fidelity. I am,
Sir, your most Obedient humble servant.

B. Franklin.1

CC

TO EDWARD PENNINGTON

London, 9 May, 1761.

Sir: — I enclose you a letter from your kinsman,
Mr. Springet Penn, with whom I had no acquaint-
ance until lately, but have the pleasure to find him
a very sensible, discreet young man, with excellent
dispositions, which makes me the more regret that
the government as well as property of our province
should pass out of that line. There has, by his ac-
count, been something very mysterious in the con-
duct of his uncle, Mr. Thomas Penn, towards him.
He was his guardian; but instead of endeavouring
to educate him at home under his eye in a manner
becoming the elder branch of their house, has from
his infancy been endeavouring to get rid of him.

1 From Documents Relating to the Colonial History of New Jersey,
vol. ix. (first series), p. 265.

2 Mr. Pennington was an eminent merchant of Philadelphia. There
was a family connection between his ancestors and William Penn's
first wife, whose name before her marriage was Springet.

1761] Benjamin Franklin 361

He first proposed sending him to the East Indies.
When that was declined, he had a scheme of sending
him to Russia; but the young gentleman's mother
absolutely refusing to let him go out of the kingdom,
unless to Pennsylvania to be educated in the college
there, he would by no means hear of his going
thither, but bound him an apprentice to a county
attorney in an obscure part of Sussex, which, after
two years' stay, finding that he was taught nothing
valuable, nor could see any company that might
improve him, he left, and returned to his mother,
with whom he has been ever since, much neglected
by his uncle, except lately that he has been a little
civil, to get him to join in a power of attorney to
W. Peters and R. Hockley for the sale of some Phila-
delphia lots, of which he is told three undivided
fourth parts belong to him. But he is not shown
the right he has to them; nor has he any plan of
their situation, by which he may be advised of their
value; nor was he told, till lately, that he had any
such right, which makes him suspect that he may
have other rights that are concealed from him.

In some letters to his father's eldest brother,
Springet Penn, whose heir he is, he finds that Sir
William Keith surveyed for him, the said Springet,
a manor of seventy-five thousand acres on the Sus-
quehanna, which he called Springetsbury, and would
be glad to know what became of that survey, and
whether it was ever conveyed away. By searching
the records, you may possibly obtain some light in
this and other land affairs, that may be for his inter-
est. The good inclinations you have shown towards

362 The Works of [1761

that interest, in a letter that has been shown to me,
encourage me to recommend this matter earnestly
to your care and prudence ; and the more privately
you carry on your inquiries, for the present, the bet-
ter it will be.

His uncle has lately proposed to him to buy of
him Pennsbury manor house, with one thousand
acres of the land near the house, pretending that his
principal reason for doing it was not the value of the
land, but an inclination he had to possess the an-
cient home of the head of the family, and a little
land round it just to support it. You know the
situation of that manor, and can judge whether it
would be prudent to sell the part proposed from the
rest, and will advise him concerning it. He has re-
fused to treat about it at present, as well as to sign
the power of attorney for the sale of the city lots;
upon which his late guardian has brought in an
account against him, and demands a debt of four
hundred pounds, which he urges him to pay, for that,
as he says, he very much wants the money, which
does not seem to look well.

Not only the Land Office may be searched for war-
rants and surveys to the young gentleman's ancestors,
but also the Record Office for deeds of gift from the
first proprietor, and other subsequent grants or con-
veyances. I may tell you in confidence that some
lawyers are of opinion that the government was not
legally conveyed from the eldest branch to others of
the family ; but this is to be farther inquired into,
and at present it is not to be talked of. I am, with
much esteem, Sir, &c, B. Franklin.

1761] Benjamin Franklin 363

CCI

TO MRS. DEBORAH FRANKLIN

Utrecht, in Holland, 14 September, 1761.

My Dear Child: — I wrote to you just before we
left London, that we were about to make a short
tour to Holland. I wrote to you since from Ant-
werp, in Flanders, and am now to acquaint you,
that, having seen almost all the principal places, and
the things worthy of notice, in those two countries,
we are on our return to London, where we hope to be
next Saturday or Sunday, that we may not miss the
Coronation. At Amsterdam I met with Mr. Crellius
and his daughter, that was formerly Mrs. Neigh.
Her husband, Dr. Neigh, died in Carolina, and she
is married again and lives very well in that city.
They treated us with great civility and kindness, and
will be so obliging as to forward this letter to you, a
ship being bound to New York from Amsterdam.
We are in good health, and have had a great deal of
pleasure and received a good deal of information in
this tour, that may be useful when we return to
America. My love to my dear Sally, and affection-
ate regards to all. Billy presents his duty. I am,
my dear Debby, your ever loving husband,

B. Franklin.

CCII

TO MISS MARY STEVENSON

Craven Street, 29 October, 1761.

My dear Polly's good mamma bids me write two
or three lines, by way of apology for her so long

364 The Works of [1761

omitting to write. She acknowledges the receiving
of two agreeable letters from her beloved daughter,
enclosing one for Sally Franklin, which was much
approved (excepting one word only) and sent as
directed.

The reasons of her not writing are, that her time
all day is fully taken up, during the daylight, with
the care of her family, and — lying abed in the morn-
ing. And her eyes are so bad that she cannot see to
write in the evening — for playing at cards. So she
hopes that one, who is all goodness, will certainly
forgive her, when her excuses are so substantial. As
for the secretary, he has not a word to say in his own
behalf, though full as great an offender, but throws
himself upon mercy; pleading only that he is, with
the greatest esteem and sincerest regard, his dear
Polly's ever affectionate friend,

B. Franklin.

CCIII

TO LORD KAMES

London, November, 1761.

My Dear Lord: — It is long since I have afforded
myself the pleasure of writing to you. As I grow in
years, I find I grow more indolent, and more apt to
procrastinate. I am indeed a bad correspondent;
but what avails confession without amendment?

When I come so late with my thanks for your
truly valuable Introduction to the Art of Thinking,
can I have any right to inquire after your Elements

1761] Benjamin Franklin 365

of Criticism t I promise myself no small satisfaction
in perusing that work also, when it shall appear. By
the first, you sow thick in the young mind the seeds
of good sense concerning moral conduct, which, as
they grow and are transplanted into life, must
greatly adorn the character and promote the happi-
ness of the person. Permit me to say that I think
I never saw more solid, useful matter contained in
so small a compass, and yet the method and expres-
sion so clear that the brevity occasions no obscurity.
In the other you will, by alluring youth to the prac-
tice of learning, strengthen their judgment, improve
and enlarge their understanding, and increase their
abilities of being useful.

To produce the number of valuable men necessary
in a nation for its prosperity, there is much more
hope from schemes of early institution than from
reformation. And as the power of a single man to
do national service, in particular situations of influ-
ence, is often immensely great, a writer can hardly
conceive the good he may be doing when engaged
in works of this kind. I cannot, therefore, but wish
you would publish it as soon as your other important
employments will permit you to give it the finishing
hand.

With these sentiments you will not doubt my
being serious in the intention of finishing my Art of
Virtue. It is not a mere ideal work. I planned it
first in 1732. I have from time to time made, and
caused to be made, experiments of the method with
success. The materials have been growing ever
since. The form only is now to be given; in which

366 The Works of [1761

I purpose employing my first leisure, after my return
to my other country.

Your invitation to make another jaunt to Scot-
land, and offer to meet us half way en famille, was
extremely obliging. Certainly I never spent my
time anywhere more agreeably, nor have I been in
any place where the inhabitants and their conversa-
tion left such lastingly pleasing impressions on my
mind, accompanied with the strongest inclination
once more to visit that hospitable, friendly, and
sensible people. The friendship your Lordship
in particular honors me with would not, you may
be assured, be among the least of my induce-
ments. My son is in the same sentiments with me.
But we doubt we cannot have that happiness, as
we are to return to America early in the next
spring.

I am ashamed that I have been so useless a mem-
ber to your Philosophical Society, since they did me
the honor of admitting me. But I think it will not
be long before they hear from me. I should be very
glad to see Dr. Cullen's paper on Fire. When may
we expect the publication? I have, as you have
heard, been dealing in Smoke, and I think it not diffi-
cult to manage, when one is once acquainted thor-
oughly with the principles. But as the causes are
various, so must the remedies be; and one cannot
prescribe to a patient at such a distance, without
first having a clear state of its case. If you should
ever take the trouble of sending me a description of
the circumstances of your smoky chimneys, perhaps
I might offer something useful towards their cure.

1761] Benjamin Franklin 367

But doubtless you have doctors equally skilful
nearer home.

I sent one of your Principles of Equity as a present
to a particular friend of mine, one of the judges of
the Supreme Court in Pennsylvania, where, as there
is no court of chancery, equity is often mixed with
the common law in their judgments. I since re-
ceived two letters from him. In the first, when he
had read but part of the work, he seemed to think
something wanting in it. In the next, he calls his
first sentiments in question. I think I will send you
the letters, though of no great importance, lest,
since I have mentioned them, you should think his
remarks might be of more consequence. You can
return them when any friend is coming this way.

May I take the freedom of recommending the
bearer, Mr. Morgan, to your Lordship's protection.
He purposes residing some time in Edinburgh, to
improve himself in the study of physic, and I think
will one day make a good figure in the profession,
and be of some credit to the school he studies in, if
great industry and application, joined with natural
genius and sagacity, afford any foundation for the
presage. He is the son of a friend and near neigh-
bour of mine in Philadelphia, so that I have known
him from a child, and am confident the same ex-
cellent dispositions, good morals, and prudent be-
haviour, that have procured him the esteem and
affection of all that knew him in his own country,
will render him not unworthy the regard, advice,
and countenance your Lordship may be so good as
to afford him.

368 The Works of [1762

My son (with whom I have lately made the tour of

Holland and Flanders) joins with me in best wishes

for you and Lady Karnes, and your amiable children.

We hope, however far we may be removed from

you, to hear frequently of your welfare, and of the

fortunes of your family; being with the sincerest

esteem and regard, my dear friend, yours most

affectionately,

B. Franklin.

CCIV

TO DAVID HUME

London, 24 January, 1762.

Dear Sir: — In compliance with my Lord Mari-
schal's request, communicated to me by you, when
I last had the pleasure of seeing you, I now send you
what at present appears to me to be the shortest and
simplest method of securing buildings, &c, from the
mischiefs of lightning. Prepare a steel rod five or
six feet long, half an inch thick at its biggest end,
and tapering to a sharp point; which point should
be gilt to prevent its rusting. Let the big end of
the rod have a strong eye or ring of half an inch
diameter: Fix this rod upright to the chimney or
highest part of the house, by means of staples, so as
it may be kept steady. Let the pointed end be up-
wards, and rise three or four feet above the chimney
or building that the rod is fixed to. Drive into the
ground an iron rod of about an inch diameter, and
ten or twelve feet long, that has also an eye or ring

1762] Benjamin Franklin 369

in its upper end. It is best that the rod should be
at some distance from the foundation of the building,
not nearer than ten feet, if your ground will allow
so much. Then take as much length of iron rod of
about half an inch diameter, as will reach from the
eye in the rod above, to that in the rod below; and
fasten it securely to those rods, by passing its ends
through the rings, and bending those ends till they
likewise form rings.

This length of rod may either be in one or several
pieces. If in several, let the ends of the pieces be
also well hooked to each other. Then close and
cover every joint with lead, which is easily done, by
making a small bag of strong paper round the joint,
tying it close below, and then pouring in the melted
lead; it being of use in these junctures, that there
should be considerable quantity of metalline contact
between piece and piece. For, if they were only
hooked together and so touched each other but in
points, the lightning, in passing through them, might
melt and break them where they join. The lead
will also prevent the weakening of the joints by rust.
To prevent the shaking of this rod by the wind, you
may secure it by a few staples to the building, till it
comes down within ten feet of the ground, and thence
carry it off to your ground rod ; near to which should
be planted a post, to support the iron conductor
above the heads of people walking under it.

If the building be large and long, as an hundred
feet or upwards, it may not be amiss to erect a
pointed rod at each end, and form a communication
by an iron rod between them. If there be a well

37° The Works of [1762

near the house, so that you can by such a rod form
a communication from your top rod to the water, it
is rather better to do so than to use the ground rod
above mentioned. It may also be proper to paint
the iron, to render it more durable by preserving it
from rust.

A building thus guarded will not be damaged by
lightning, nor any person or thing therein killed,
hurt, or set on fire. For either the explosion will be
prevented by the operation of the point, or, if not
prevented, then the whole quantity of lightning ex-
ploded near the house, whether passing from the
cloud to the earth, or from the earth to the cloud,
will be conveyed in the rods. And though the iron
be crooked round the corner of the building, or make
ever so many turns between the upper and lower
rod, the lightning will follow it, and be guided by it,
without affecting the building. I omit the philo-
sophical reasons and experiments on which this prac-
tice is founded, for they are many, and would make
a book. Besides they are already known to most of
the learned throughout Europe. In the American
British colonies many houses have been, since the
year 1752, guarded by these principles. Three facts
have only come to my knowledge of the effects of
lightning on such houses.

If I have not been explicit enough in my direc-
tions, I shall, on the least intimation, endeavour to
supply the defect.

I am, &c.

B. Franklin.

1762] Benjamin Franklin 371

CCV

TO E. KINNERSLEY

London, 20 February, 1762.

Sir: — I received your ingenious letter of the 12th
of March last, and thank you cordially for the ac-
count you give me of the new experiments you have
lately made in electricity. It is a subject that still
affords me pleasure, though of late I have not much
attended to it.

Your second experiment, in which you attempted,
without success, to communicate positive electricity
by vapor ascending from electrized water, reminds
me of one I formerly made, to try if negative elec-
tricity might be produced by evaporation only. I
placed a large heated brass plate, containing four or
five square feet, on an electric stand ; a rod of metal,
about four feet long, with a bullet at its end, ex-
tended from the plate horizontal^. A light lock of
cotton, suspended by a fine thread from the ceiling,
hung opposite to, and within an inch of, the bullet.
I then sprinkled the heated plate with water, which
arose fast from it in vapor. If vapor should be dis-
posed to carry off the electrical, as it does the com-
mon, fire from bodies, I expected the plate would,
by losing some of its natural quantity, become nega-
tively electrized. But I could not perceive, by any
motion in the cotton, that it was at all affected;
nor, by any separation of small cork balls suspended
from the plate, could it be observed that the plate
was in any manner electrified.

Mr. Canton here has also found, that two tea-cups,

372 The Works of [1762

set on electric stands, and filled, one with boiling,
the other with cold, water, and equally electrified,
continued equally so, notwithstanding the plentiful
evaporation from the hot water. Your experiment
and his, agreeing, show another remarkable differ-
ence between electric and common fire. For the
latter quits most readily the body that contains it,
where water, or any other fluid, is evaporating from
the surface of that body, and escapes with the vapor.
Hence the method, long in use in the East, of cool-
ing liquors by wrapping the bottles round with a wet
cloth, and exposing them to the wind. Dr. Cullen,
of Edinburgh, has given some experiments of cooling
by evaporation; and I was present at one made by
Dr. Hadley, then Professor of Chemistry at Cam-
bridge, when, by repeatedly wetting the ball of a
thermometer with spirit, and quickening the evap-
oration by the blast of a bellows, the mercury fell
from sixty-five, the state of warmth in the common
air, to seven, which is twenty-two degrees below
freezing; and, accordingly, from some water mixed
with the spirit, or from the breath of the assistants,
or both, ice gathered in small spicula round the ball
to the thickness of near a quarter of an inch. To
such a degree did the mercury lose the fire it before
contained, which, as I imagine, took the opportunity
of escaping, in company with the evaporating par-
ticles of the spirit, by adhering to those particles.

Your experiment of the Florence flask and boiling
water is very curious. I have repeated it, and found
it to succeed as you describe it, in two flasks out of
three. The third would not charge when filled with

i7623 Benjamin Franklin 373

either hot or cold water. I repeated it, because I
remembered I had once attempted to make an elec-
tric bottle of a Florence flask, filled with cold water,
but could not charge it at all ; which I then imputed
to some imperceptible cracks in the small, extremely
thin bubbles, of which that glass is full, and I con-
cluded none of that kind would do. But you have
shown me my mistake. Mr. Wilson had formerly
acquainted us that red-hot glass would conduct elec-
tricity; but that so small a degree of heat as that
communicated by boiling water would so open the
pores of extremely thin glass, as to suffer the electric
fluid freely to pass, was not before known. Some
experiments similar to yours have, however, been
made here, before the receipt of your letter, of which
I shall now give you an account.

I formerly had an opinion that a Ley den bottle,
charged and then sealed hermetically, might retain
its electricity for ever; but having afterwards some
suspicion that possibly that subtile fluid might, by
slow, imperceptible degrees, soak through the glass,
and in time escape, I requested some of my friends,
who had conveniences for doing it, to make trial,
whether, after some months, the charge of a bottle
so sealed would be sensibly diminished. Being at
Birmingham, in September, 1760, Mr. Bolton of that
place opened a bottle that had been charged, and its
long tube neck hermetically sealed in the January
preceding. On breaking off the end of the neck,
and introducing a wire into it, we found it possessed
of a considerable quantity of electricity, which was
discharged by a snap and spark. This bottle had

374 The Works of [1762

lain near seven months on a shelf, in a closet, in con-
tact with bodies that would undoubtedly have car-
ried off all its electricity, if it could have come readily
through the glass. Yet, as the quantity manifested
by the discharge was not apparently so great as
might have been expected from a bottle of that size
well charged, some doubt remained, whether part
had escaped while the neck was sealing, or had since,
by degrees, soaked through the glass. But an ex-
periment of Mr. Canton's, in which such a bottle
was kept under water a week, without having its
electricity in the least impaired, seems to show that
when the glass is cold, though extremely thin, the
electric fluid is well retained by it. As that ingen-
ious and accurate experimenter made a discovery
like yours, of the effect of heat in rendering thin
glass permeable by that fluid, it is but doing him
justice to give you his account of it, in his own words,
extracted from his letter to me, in which he com-
municated it, dated October 31st, 1760, viz.:

" Having procured some thin glass balls, of about
an inch and a half in diameter, with stems or tubes,
of eight or nine inches in length, I electrified them,
some positively on the inside, and others negatively,
after the manner of charging the Ley den bottle, and
sealed them hermetically. Soon after I applied the
naked balls to my electrometer, and could not dis-
cover the least sign of their being electrical, but
holding them before the fire, at the distance of six
or eight inches, they became strongly electrical in a
very short time, and more so when they were cool-

1762] Benjamin Franklin 375

ing. These balls will, every time they are heated,
give the electrical fluid to, or take it from, other
bodies, according to the plus or minus state within
them. Heating them frequently, I find, will sensibly
diminish their power ; but keeping one of them under
water a week did not appear in the least degree to
impair it. That which I kept under water was
charged on the 2 2d of September last, was several
times heated before it was kept in water, and has
been heated frequently since, and yet it still retains
its virtue to a very considerable degree. The break-
ing two of my balls accidentally gave me an oppor-
tunity of measuring their thickness, which I found
to be between seven and eight parts in a thousand
of an inch.

" A down feather in a thin glass ball, hermetically
sealed, will not be affected by the application of an
excited tube, or the wire of a charged phial, unless
the ball be considerably heated; and if a glass pane
be heated till it begins to grow soft, and in that state
be held between the wire of a charged phial and the
discharging wire, the course of the electrical fluid
will not be through the glass, but on the surface,
round by the edge of it."

By this last experiment of Mr. Canton's it appears
that though by a moderate heat thin glass becomes,
in some degree, a conductor of electricity, yet when
of the thickness of a common pane it is not, though
in a state near melting, so good a conductor as to
pass the shock of a discharged bottle. There are
other conductors which suffer the electric fluid to

376 The Works of [1762

pass through them gradually, and yet will not con-
duct a shock. For instance, a quire of paper will
conduct through its whole length, so as to electrify a
person who, standing on wax, presents the paper to
an electrified prime conductor; but it will not con-
duct a shock even through its thickness only ; hence
the shock either fails, or passes by rending a hole in
the paper. Thus a sieve will pass water gradually,
but a stream from a fire-engine would either be
stopped by it, or tear a hole through it.

It should seem, that, to make glass permeable to
the electric fluid, the heat should be proportioned to
the thickness. You found the heat of boiling water,
which is but two hundred and ten, sufficient to ren-
der the extreme thin glass in a Florence flask per-
meable even to a shock. Lord Charles Cavendish,
by a very ingenious experiment, has found the heat
of four hundred requisite to render thicker glass
permeable to the common current.

' ' A glass tube (see Plate I . ) , of which the part CB was
solid, had wire thrust in each end, reaching to B and C.

"A small wire was tied on at D, reaching to the
floor, in order to carry off any electricity that might
run along upon the tube.

"The bent part was placed in an iron pot, filled
with iron filings; a thermometer was also put into
the filings; a lamp was placed under the pot; and
the whole was supported upon glass.

" The wire A being electrified by a machine, before
the heat was applied, the corks at E separated, at
first upon the principle of the Ley den phial.

\yr

',/"■

Plate I. Vol. III., p. 376.

1762] Benjamin Franklin 377

" But after the part CB of the tube was heated to
six hundred, the corks continued to separate, though
you discharged the electricity by touching the wire
at E, the electrical machine continuing in motion.

" Upon letting the whole cool, the effect remained
till the thermometer was sunk to four hundred."

It were to be wished that this noble philosopher
would communicate more of his experiments to the
world, as he makes many, and with great accuracy.

You know I have always looked upon and men-
tioned the equal repulsion, in cases of positive and of
negative electricity, as a phenomenon difficult to be
explained. I have sometimes, too, been inclined,
with you, to resolve all into attraction ; but, besides
that attraction seems in itself as unintelligible as re-
pulsion, there are some appearances of repulsion
that I cannot so easily explain by attraction; this,
for one instance. When the pair of cork balls are
suspended by flaxen threads from the end of the
prime conductor, if you bring a rubbed glass tube
near the conductor, but without touching it, you see
the balls separate, as being electrified positively; and
yet you have communicated no electricity to the
conductor, for, if you had, it would have remained
there after withdrawing the tube ; but the closing of
the balls immediately thereupon, shows that the
conductor has no more left in it than its natural
quantity. Then, again approaching the conductor
with the rubbed tube, if, while the balls are sepa-
rated, you touch with a finger that end of the con-
ductor to which they hang, they will come together

378 The Works of [1762

again, as being, with that part of the conductor,
brought to the same state with your finger — that is,
the natural state. But the other end of the con-
ductor, near which the tube is held, is not in that
state, but in the negative state, as appears on re-
moving the tube ; for then part of the natural quan-
tity left at the end near the balls, leaving that end
to supply what is wanting at the other, the whole
conductor is found to be equally in the negative
state. Does not this indicate that the electricity of
the rubbed tube had repelled the electric fluid, which
was diffused in the conductor while in its natural
state, and forced it to quit the end to which the
tube was brought near, accumulating itself on the
end to which the balls were suspended? I own I
find it difficult to account for its quitting that end,
on the approach of the rubbed tube, but on the sup-
position of repulsion; for while the conductor was
in the same state with the air — that is, the natural
state, it does not seem to me easy to suppose that
an attraction should suddenly take place between
the air and the natural quantity of the electric fluid
in the conductor, so as to draw it to, and accumulate
it on, the end opposite to that approached by the
tube; since bodies possessing only their natural
quantity of that fluid are not usually seen to attract
each other, or to affect mutually the quantities of
electricity each contains.

There are likewise appearances of repulsion in
other parts of nature. Not to mention the violent
force with which the particles of water, heated to
a certain degree, separate from each other, or those

1762] Benjamin Franklin 379

of gunpowder, when touched with the smallest spark
of fire, there is the seeming repulsion between the
same poles of the magnet, a body containing a
subtile movable fluid in many respects analogous to
the electric fluid. If two magnets are so suspended
by strings as that their poles of the same denomina-
tion are opposite to each other, they will separate
and continue so; or if you lay a magnetic steel bar
on a smooth table, and approach it with another
parallel to it, the poles of both in the same position,
the first will recede from the second, so as to avoid
the contact, and may thus be pushed (or at least
appear to be pushed) off the table. Can this be
ascribed to the attraction of any surrounding body
or matter drawing them asunder, or drawing the one
away from the other? If not, and repulsion exists
in nature, and in magnetism, why may it not ex-
ist in electricity? We should not indeed multiply
causes in philosophy without necessity; and the
greater simplicity of your hypothesis would recom-
mend it to me, if I could see that all appearances
would be solved by it. But I find, or think I find,
the two causes more convenient than one of them
alone. Thus I might solve the circular motion of
your horizontal stick, supported on a pivot, with
two pins at their ends, pointing contrary ways, and
moving in the same direction when electrified,
whether positively or negatively: when positively,
the air opposite to the points, being electrized posi-
tively, repels the points ; when negatively, the
air opposite the points also, by their means, elec-
trized negatively, attraction takes place between the

380 The Works of [1762

electricity in the air behind the heads of the pins
and the negative pins, and so they are, in this case,
drawn in the same direction that in the other they
were driven. You see I am willing to meet you
half way, a complaisance I have not met with in our
brother Nollet, or any other hypothesis-maker, and
therefore may value myself a little upon it, especially
as they say I have some ability in defending even
the wrong side of a question, when I take it in hand.
What you give as an established law of the elec-
tric fluid, "That quantities of different densities
mutually attract each other, in order to restore the
equilibrium," * is, I think, not well founded, or else
not well expressed. Two large cork balls, suspended
by silk strings, and both well and equally electrified,
separate to a great distance. By bringing into con-
tact with one of them another ball of the same size,
suspended likewise by silk, you will take from it half
its electricity. It will then, indeed, hang at a less
distance from the other, but the full and the half
quantities will not appear to attract each other —
that is, the balls will not come together. Indeed, I
do not know any proof we have, that one quantity

1 This letter from Franklin is in reply to another from Kinnersley,
dated the 12th March, 1762, in which he said:

"The doctrine of repulsion in electrized bodies I begin to be some-
what doubtful of. I think all the phenomena on which it is founded
may be well enough accounted for without it. Will not cork balls,
electrized negatively, separate as far as when electrized positively?
And may not their separation in both cases be accounted for upon the
same principle — namely, the mutual attraction of the natural quantity
in the air, and that which is denser or rarer in the cork balls ? it being
one of the established laws of this fluid, that quantities of different
densities shall mutually attract each other, in order to restore the
equilibrium. "

1762] Benjamin Franklin 381

of electric fluid is attracted by another quantity of
that fluid, whatever difference there may be in their
densities. And, supposing in nature a mutual at-
traction between two parcels of any kind of matter,
it would be strange if this attraction should subsist
strongly while those parcels were unequal, and cease
when more matter of the same kind was added to
the smallest parcel, so as to make it equal to the
biggest. By all the laws of attraction in matter
that we are acquainted with, the attraction is
stronger in proportion to the increase of the masses,
and never in proportion to the difference of the
masses. I should rather think the law would be:
"That the electric fluid is attracted strongly by
all other matter that we know of, while the parts
of that fluid mutually repel each other." Hence its
being equally diffused (except in particular circum-
stances) throughout all other matter. But this you
jokingly call "electrical orthodoxy." It is so with
some at present, but not with all; and, perhaps, it
may not always be orthodoxy with anybody. Opin-
ions are continually varying, where we cannot have
mathematical evidence of the nature of things; and
they must vary. Nor is that variation without its
use, since it occasions a more thorough discussion,
whereby error is often dissipated, true knowledge is
increased, and its principles become better under-
stood and more firmly established.

Air should have, as you observe, " its share of the
common stock of electricity, as well as glass, and,
perhaps, all other electrics per se." But I suppose
that, like them, it does not easily part with what it

382 The Works of [1762

has, or receive more, unless when mixed with some
non-electric, as moisture, for instance, of which there
is some in our driest air. This, however, is only a
supposition; and your experiment of restoring elec-
tricity to a negatively electrized person, by extend-
ing his arm upwards into the air, with a needle
between his fingers, on the point of which light may
be seen in the night, is, indeed, a curious one. In
this town the air is generally moister than with us,
and here I have seen Mr. Canton electrify the air in
one room positively, and in another, which com-
municated by a door, he has electrized the air nega-
tively. The difference was easily discovered by his
cork balls, as he passed out of one room into another.
Pere Beccaria, too, has a pretty experiment, which
shows that air may be electrized. Suspending a
pair of small light balls, by flaxen threads, to the
end of his prime conductor, he turns his globe some
time, electrizing positively, the balls diverging and
continuing separate all the time. Then he presents
the point of a needle to his conductor, which gradu-
ally drawing off the electric fluid, the balls approach
each other, and touch, before all is drawn from the
conductor; opening again as more is drawn off, and
separating nearly as widely as at first, when the con-
ductor is reduced to the natural state. By this it
appears that when the balls came together the air
surrounding the balls was just as much electrized as
the conductor at that time ; and more than the con-
ductor, when that was reduced to its natural state.
For the balls, though in the natural state, will
diverge, when the air that surrounds them is elec-

1762] Benjamin Franklin 383

trized plus or minus, as well as when that is in its
natural state and they are electrized plus or minus
themselves. I foresee that you will apply this ex-
periment to the support of your hypothesis, and I
think you may make a good deal of it.

It was a curious inquiry of yours, whether the
electricity of the air, in clear, dry weather, be of the
same density at the height of two or three hundred
yards, as near the surface of the earth; and I am
glad you made the experiment. Upon reflection, it
should seem probable that whether the general state
of the atmosphere at any time be positive or nega-
tive, that part of it which is next the earth will be
nearer the natural state, by having given to the
earth in one case, or having received from it in the
other. In electrizing the air of a room, that which
is nearest the walls, or floor, is least altered. There
is only one small ambiguity in the experiment, which
may be cleared by more trials ; it arises from the sup-
position that bodies may be electrized positively by
the friction of air blowing strongly on them, as it
does on the kite and its string. If at some times the
electricity appears to be negative, as that friction is
the same, the effect must be from a negative state of
the upper air.

I am much pleased with your electrical thermome-
ter, and the experiments you have made with it. I
formerly satisfied myself, by an experiment with my
phial and siphon, that the electricity of the air was
not increased by the mere existence of an electric
atmosphere within the phial ; but I did not know, till
you now inform me, that heat may be given to it by

384 The Works of [1762

an electric explosion. The continuance of its rare-
faction, for some time after the discharge of your
glass jar and of your case of bottles, seems to make
this clear. The other experiments on wet paper, wet
thread, green grass, and green wood, are not so satis-
factory ; as possibly the reducing part of the moisture
to vapor, by the electric fluid passing through it,
might occasion some expansion which would be
gradually reduced by the condensation of such vapor.
The fine silver thread, the very small brass wire, and
the strip of gilt paper are also subject to a similar
objection, as even metals, in such circumstances, are
often partly reduced to smoke, particularly the gild-
ing on paper.

But your subsequent beautiful experiment on the
wire, which you made hot by the electric explosion,
and in that state fired gunpowder with it, puts it out
of all question, that heat is produced by our artificial
electricity, and that the melting of metals in that way
is not by what I formerly called a cold fusion. A late
instance here of the melting of bell- wire in a house
struck by lightning, and parts of the wire burning
holes in the floor on which they fell, has proved the
same with regard to the electricity of nature. I was
too easily led into that error by accounts given, even
in philosophical books, and from remote ages down-
wards, of melting money in purses, swords in scab-
bards, &c, without burning the inflammable matters
that were so near those melted metals. But men are,
in general, such careless observers, that a philosopher
cannot be too much on his guard in crediting their
relations of things extraordinary, and should never

1762] Benjamin Franklin 385

build an hypothesis on any thing but clear facts and
experiments, or it will be in danger of soon falling, as
this does, like a house of cards.

How many ways there are of kindling fire, or pro-
ducing heat in bodies! By the sun's rays, by col-
lision, by friction, by hammering, by putrefaction, by
fermentation, by mixtures of fluids, by mixtures of
solids with fluids, and by electricity. And yet the
fire when produced, though in different bodies it may
differ in circumstances, as in color, vehemence, &c,
yet in the same bodies is generally the same. Does
not this seem to indicate that the fire existed in the
body, though in a quiescent state, before it was by
any of these means excited, disengaged, and brought
forth to action and to view? May it not continue a
part, and even a principal part, of the solid sub-
stance of bodies ? If this should be the case, kindling
fire in a body would be nothing more than developing
this inflammable principle, and setting it at liberty
to act in separating the parts of that body, which
then exhibits the appearances of scorching, melting,
burning, &c. When a man lights a hundred candles
from the flame of one, without diminishing that flame,
can it be properly said to have communicated all that
fire? When a single spark from a flint, applied to
a magazine of gunpowder, is immediately attended
with this consequence, that the whole is in flame,
exploding with immense violence, could all this fire
exist first in the spark? We cannot conceive it.
And thus we seem led to this supposition, that there
is fire enough in all bodies to singe, melt, or burn
them, whenever it is, by any means, set at liberty,

VOL. III. — 25.

386 The Works of [1762

so that it may exert itself upon them, or be disen-
gaged from them. This liberty seems to be afforded
it by the passage of electricity through them, which
we know can and does, of itself, separate the parts
even of water ; and, perhaps, the immediate appear-
ances of fire are only the effects of such separations.
If so, there would be no need of supposing that the
electric fluid heats itself by the swiftness of its motion,
or heats bodies by the resistance it meets with in
passing through them. They would only be heated
in proportion as such separation could be more easily
made. Thus a melting heat cannot be given to a
large wire in the flame of a candle, though it may to
a small one ; and this, not because the large wire re-
sists less that action of the flame which tends to
separate its parts, but because it resists it more than
the smaller wire ; or because the force being divided
among more parts acts weaker on each.

This reminds me, however, of a little experiment
I have frequently made, that shows, at one operation,
the different effects of the same quantity of electric
fluid passing through different quantities of metal.
A strip of tinfoil, three inches long, a quarter of an
inch wide at one end, and tapering all the way to a
sharp point at the other, fixed between two pieces of
glass, and having the electricity of a large glass jar
sent through it, will not be discomposed in the broad-
est part; towards the middle will appear melted in
spots ; where narrower, it will be quite melted ; and
about half an inch of it next the point will be re-
duced to smoke.

You were not mistaken in supposing that your

1762] Benjamin Franklin 387

account of the effect of the pointed rod, in securing
Mr. West's house from damage by a stroke of light-
ning, would give me great pleasure. I thank you for
it most heartily, and for the pains you have taken in
giving me so complete a description of its situation,
form, and substance, with the draft of the melted
point. There is one circumstance, viz., that the
lightning was seen to diffuse itself from the foot of
the rod over the wet pavement, which seems, I think,
to indicate that the earth under the pavement was
very dry, and that the rod should have been sunk
deeper, till it came to earth moister, and therefore
apter to receive and dissipate the electric fluid. And
although, in this instance, a conductor formed of nail-
rods, not much above a quarter of an inch thick,
served well to convey the lightning, yet some ac-
counts I have seen from Carolina give reason to
think that larger may be sometimes necessary, at
least for the security of the conductor itself, which,
when too small, may be destroyed in executing its
office, though it does, at the same time, preserve the
house. Indeed, in the construction of an instrument
so new, and of which we could have so little experi-
ence, it is rather lucky that we should at first be so
near the truth as we seem to be, and commit so few
errors.

There is another reason for sinking deeper the
lower end of the rod, and also for turning it outwards
under ground to some distance from the foundation ;
it is this, that water dripping from the eaves falls
near the foundation, and sometimes soaks down there
in greater quantities, so as to come near the end of the

388 The Works of [1762

rod, though the ground about it be drier. In such
case, this water may be exploded, that is, blown into
vapor, whereby a force is generated that may damage
the foundation. Water reduced to vapor is said to
occupy fourteen thousand times its former space. I
have sent a charge through a small glass tube, that
has borne it well while empty, but when filled first
with water, was shattered to pieces, and driven all
about the room. Finding no part of the water on the
table, I suspected it to have been reduced to vapor;
and was confirmed in that suspicion afterwards, when
I had filled a like piece of tube with ink, and laid it
on a sheet of clean paper, whereon, after the explo-
sion, I could find neither any moisture nor any sully
from the ink. This experiment of the explosion of
water, which I believe was first made by the most in-
genious electrician, Father Beccaria, may account for
what we sometimes see in a tree struck by lightning,
when part of it is reduced to fine splinters like a
broom ; the sap- vessels being so many tubes contain-
ing a watery fluid, which, when reduced to vapor
rends every tube lengthwise. And perhaps it is this
rarefaction of the fluid in animal bodies killed by
lightning or electricity, that, by separating its fibres,
renders the flesh so tender, and apt so much sooner
to putrefy. I think, too, that much of the damage
done by lightning to stone and brick walls may some-
times be owing to the explosion of water, found dur-
ing showers, running or lodging in the joints or small
cavities or cracks that happen to be in the walls.

Here are some electricians, that recommend knobs
instead of points on the upper end of the rods, from a

1762] Benjamin Franklin 389

supposition that the points invite the stroke. It is
true that points draw electricity at greater distances
in the gradual, silent way ; but knobs will draw at the
greatest distance a stroke. There is an experiment
that will settle this. Take a crooked wire, of the
thickness of a quill, and of such a length as that, one
end of it being applied to the lower part of a charged
bottle, the upper may be brought near the ball on the
top of the wire that is in the bottle. Let one end
of this wire be furnished with a knob, and the other
may be gradually tapered to a fine point. When the
point is presented to discharge the bottle, it must be
brought much nearer before it will receive the stroke,
than the knob requires to be. Points, besides, tend
to repel the fragments of an electrized cloud, knobs
draw them nearer. An experiment, which, I believe,
I have shown you, of cotton fleece hanging from an
electrized body, shows this clearly, when a point or a
knob is presented under it.

You seem to think highly of the importance of this
discovery, as do many others on our side of the water.
Here it is veiy little regarded ; so little, that, though
it is now seven or eight years since it was made pub-
lic, I have not heard of a single house as yet at-
tempted to be secured by it. It is true the mischiefs
done by lightning are not so frequent here as with
us; and those who calculate chances may perhaps
find, that not one death (or the destruction of one
house) in a hundred thousand happens from that
cause, and that therefore it is scarce worth while to
be at any expense to guard against it. But in all
countries there are particular situations of buildings

39° The Works of [1762

more exposed than others to such accidents, and there
are minds so strongly impressed with the apprehen-
sion of them, as to be very unhappy every time a
little thunder is within their hearing. It may there-
fore be well to render this little piece of new know-
ledge as general and as well understood as possible,
since to make us safe is not all its advantage; it is
some to make us easy. And as the stroke it secures
us from might have chanced, perhaps, but once in our
lives, while it may relieve us a hundred times from
those painful apprehensions, the latter may possibly,
on the whole, contribute more to the happiness of
mankind than the former.

Your kind wishes and congratulations are very
obliging.1 I return them cordially; being, with great
regard and esteem, my dear Sir, your affectionate
friend and most obedient humble servant,

B. Franklin.

Accounts from Carolina (mentioned in the foregoing
Letter) of the Effects of Lightning on two of the
Rods commonly affixed to Houses there, for securing
them against Lightning.

Charleston, i November, 1760.

. . . "It is some years since Mr. Raven's rod
was struck by lightning. I hear an account of it was

1 The closing paragraph of Mr. Kinnersley's letter, which invited the
reciprocation of good wishes, ran as follows :

"And now, Sir, I most heartily congratulate you on the pleasure
you must have in finding your great and well grounded expectations
so far fulfilled. May this method of security from the destructive
violence of one of the most awful powers of nature meet with such

1762] Benjamin Franklin 391

published at the time, but I cannot find it. Accord-
ing to the best information I can now get, he had
fixed to the outside of his chimney a large iron rod,
several feet in length, reaching above the chimney;
and to the top of this rod the points were fixed.
From the lower end of this rod, a small brass wire
was continued down to the top of another iron rod
driven into the earth. On the ground-floor in the
chimney stood a gun, leaning against the back wall,
nearly opposite to where the brass wire came down
on the outside. The lightning fell upon the points,
did no damage to the rod they were fixed to; but
the brass wire, all down till it came opposite to the
top of the gun-barrel, was destroyed.1 There the
lightning made a hole through the wall, or back of
the chimney, to get to the gun-barrel,2 down which
it seems to have passed, as, although it did not hurt
the barrel, it damaged the butt of the stock, and
blew up some bricks of the hearth. The brass wire
below the hole in the wall remained good. No other
damage, as I can learn, was done to the house. I
am told the same house had formerly been struck by
lightning, and much damage, before these rods were
invented."

further success, as to induce every good and grateful heart to bless
God for this important discovery! May the benefit thereof be diffused
over the whole globe! May it extend to the latest posterity of man-
kind and make the name of Franklin, like that of Newton, immortal I "

1 A proof that it was not of sufficient substance to conduct with
safety to itself (though with safety so far to the wall) so large a quan-
tity of the electric fluid.

2 A more substantial conductor.

392 The Works of [1762

Mr. William Maine's Account of the Effects of the
Lightning on his Rod, dated at Indian Land, in
South Carolina, August 28, 1760.

. . . " I had a set of electrical points, consisting
of three prongs, of large brass wire tipt with silver,
and perfectly sharp, each about seven inches long;
these were riveted at equal distances into an iron nut
about three quarters of an inch square, and opened
at top equally to the distance of six or seven inches
from point to point, in a regular triangle. This nut
was screwed very tight on the top of an iron rod of
about half an inch diameter, or the thickness of a
common curtain-rod, composed of several joints, an-
nexed by hooks turned at the ends of each joint, and
the whole fixed to the chimney of my house by iron
staples. The points were elevated (a) six or seven
inches above the top of the chimney ; and the lower
joint sunk three feet in the earth, in a perpendicular
direction.

"Thus stood the points on Tuesday last, about
five in the evening, when the lightning broke with a
violent explosion on the chimney, cut the rod square
off just under the nut, and, I am persuaded, melted
the points, nut, and top of the rod, entirely up; as,
after the most diligent search, nothing of either was
found (b), and the top of the remaining rod was
cased over with a congealed solder. The lightning ran
down the rod, starting almost all the staples (c), and
unhooking the joints without affecting the rod (d),
except on the inside of each hook where the joints
were coupled, the surface of which was melted (e),

1762] Benjamin Franklin 393

and left as cased over with solder. No part of the
chimney was damaged (/) , only at the foundation (g) ,
where it was shattered almost quite round, and sev-
eral bricks were torn out (h). Considerable cavities
were made in the earth quite round the foundation,
but most within eight or nine inches of the rod. It
also shattered the bottom weather-board (i) at one
corner of the house, and made a large hole in the
earth by the corner post. On the other side of the
chimney, it ploughed up several furrows in the earth,
some yards in length. It ran down the inside of the
chimney (k), carrying only soot with it, and filled the
whole house with its flash (/), smoke, and dust. It
tore up the hearth in several places (m), and broke
some pieces of China in the buffet (n). A copper
tea-kettle standing in the chimney was beat together,
as if some great weight had fallen upon it (o) ; and
three holes, each about half an inch diameter, melted
through the bottom (p). What seems to me the
most surprising is, that the hearth under the kettle
was not hurt, yet the bottom of the kettle was drove
inward, as if the lightning proceeded from under it
upwards (q), and the cover was thrown to the middle
of the floor (r). The fire-dogs, an iron loggerhead,
an Indian pot, an earthen cup, and a cat were all in
the chimney at the time unhurt, though a great part
of the hearth was torn up (s). My wife's sister, two
children, and a negro wench were all who happened
be in the house at the time; the first and one child
sat within five feet of the chimney, and were so
stunned that they never saw the lightning nor heard
the explosion ; the wench, with the other child in her

394 The Works of [1762

arms, sitting at a greater distance, was sensible of
both ; though every one was so stunned that they did
not recover for some time ; however, it pleased God
that no farther mischief ensued. The kitchen, at
ninety feet distance, was full of negroes, who were
all sensible of the shock; and some of them tell me
that they felt the rod about a minute after, when it
was so hot that they could not bear it in hand."

Remarks by Benjamin Franklin

The foregoing very sensible and distinct account
may afford a good deal of instruction relating to the
nature and effects of lightning, and to the construction
and use of this instrument for averting the mis-
chiefs of it. Like other new instruments, this ap-
pears to have been at first in some respects imperfect ;
and we find that we are, in this as in others, to
expect improvement from experience chiefly; but
there seems to be nothing in the account that should
discourage us in the use of it; since, at the same
time that its imperfections are discovered, the means
of removing them are pretty easily to be learnt from
the circumstances of the account itself; and its
utility upon the whole is manifest.

One intention of the pointed rod is, to prevent a
stroke of lightning. (See Vol. II., page 431 ; Vol. III.,
page 77.) But, to have a better chance of obtaining
this end, the points should not be too near to the top
of the chimney or highest part of the building to which
they are affixed, but should be extended five or six

1762] Benjamin Franklin 395

feet above it; otherwise their operation in silently
drawing off the fire (from such fragments of cloud as
float in the air between the great body of cloud and
the earth) will be prevented. For the experiment with
the lock of cotton hanging below the electrified prime
conductor shows, that a finger under it, being a blunt
body, extends the cotton, drawing its lower point
downwards; when a needle, with its point presented
to the cotton, makes it fly up again to the prime
conductor; and that this effect is strongest when as
much of the needle as possible appears above the end
of the finger ; grows weaker as the needle is shortened
between the finger and thumb; and is reduced to
nothing when only a short part below the point ap-
pears above the finger. Now, it seems, the points of
Mr. Maine's rod were elevated only (a) six or seven
inches above the top of the chimney; which, considering
the bulk of the chimney and the house, was too small
an elevation. For the great body of matter near
them would hinder their being easily brought into a
negative state by the repulsive power of the electrized
cloud, in which negative state it is that they attract
most strongly and copiously the electric fluid from
other bodies and convey it into the earth.

Nothing of the points, &c, could be found. This
is a common effect. (See supra, page 79.) Where
the quantity of the electric fluid passing is too great
for the conductor through which it passes, the metal
is either melted, or reduced to smoke and dissipated ;
but where the conductor is sufficiently large, the fluid
passes in it without hurting it. Thus these three
wires were destroyed, while the rod to which they

396 The Works of [1762

were fixed, being of greater substance, remained un-
hurt; its end only, to which they were joined, being
a little melted, some of the melted part of the lower
ends of those wires uniting with it, and appearing on
it like solder.

(c) (d) (e) As the several parts of the rod were
connected only by the ends being bent round into
hooks, the contact between hook and hook was much
smaller than the rod; therefore the current through
the metal, being confined in those narrow passages,
melted part of the metal, as appeared on examining
the inside of each hook. Where metal is melted by
lightning, some part of it is generally exploded; and
these explosions in the joints appear to have been the
cause of unhooking them, and, by that violent action,
of starting also most of the staples. We learn from
hence, that a rod in one continued piece is preferable
to one composed of links or parts hooked together.

(/) No part of the chimney was damaged; because
the lightning passed in the rod. And this instance
agrees with others in showing, that the second and
principal intention of the rods is obtainable, viz., that
of conducting the lightning. In all the instances yet
known of the lightning's falling on any house guarded
by rods, it has pitched down upon the point of the
rod, and has not fallen upon any other part of the
house. Had the lightning fallen on this chimney,
unfurnished with a rod, it would probably have rent
it from top to bottom, as we see, by the effects of the
lightning on the points and rod, that its quantity was
very great; and we know that many chimneys have
been so demolished. But no part of this was damaged,

1762] Benjamin Franklin 397

only (/) (g) (h) at the foundation, where it was shattered,
and several bricks torn out. Here we learn the prin-
cipal defect in fixing this rod. The lower joint, being
sunk but three feet into the earth, did not, it seems,
go low enough to come at water, or a large body of
earth so moist as to receive readily from its end the
quantity it conducted. The electric fluid therefore,
thus accumulated near the lower end of the rod,
quitted at the surface of the earth, dividing in search
of other passages. Part of it tore up the surface in
furrows, and made holes in it; part entered the
bricks of the foundation, which being near the earth
are generally moist, and, in exploding that moisture,
shattered them. (See supra, page 388.) Part went
through or under the foundation, and got under the
hearth, blowing up great part of the bricks (m) (s),
and producing the other effects (p) (q) (r). The
iron dogs, loggerhead, and iron pot were not hurt,
being of sufficient substance, and they probably pro-
tected the cat. The copper tea-kettle, being thin,
suffered some damage. Perhaps, though found on a
sound part of the hearth, it might at the time of the
stroke have stood on the part blown up, which will
account both for the bruising and melting.

That it ran down the inside of the chimney (k), I
apprehend must be a mistake. Had it done so, I
imagine it would have brought something more than
soot with it; it would probably have ripped off the
pargeting, and brought down fragments of plaster
and bricks. The shake, from the explosion on the
rod, was sufficient to shake down a good deal of
loose soot. Lightning does not usually enter houses

398 The Works of [1762

by the doors, windows, or chimneys, as open passages,
in the manner that air enters them; its nature is, to
be attracted by substances, that are conductors of
electricity; it penetrates and passes in them, and,
if they are not good conductors, as are neither wood,
brick, stone, nor plaster, it is apt to rend them in its
passage. It would not easily pass through the air
from a cloud to a building, were it not for the aid
afforded in its passage by intervening fragments of
clouds below the main body, or by the falling rain.

It is said that the house was filled up with its -flash
(/). Expressions like this are common in accounts
of the effects of lightning, from which we are apt to
understand that the lightning filled the house. Our
language indeed seems to want a word to express the
light of lightning, as distinct from the lightning itself.
When a tree on a hill is struck by it, the lightning of
that stroke exists only in a narrow vein between the
cloud and tree, but its light fills a vast space many
miles round; and people at the greatest distance
from it are apt to say: " The lightning came into our
rooms through our window." As it is in itself ex-
tremely bright, it cannot, when so near as to strike
a house, fail illuminating highly every room in it
through the windows; and this I suppose to have
been the case at Mr. Maine's; and that, except in
and near the hearth, from the causes above men-
tioned, it was not in any other part of the house;
the -flash meaning no more than the light of the light-
ning. It is for want of considering this difference,
that people suppose there is a kind of lightning not
attended with thunder. In fact, there is probably

1762] Benjamin Franklin 399

a loud explosion accompanying every flash of light-
ning, and at the same instant ; but as sound travels
slower than light, we often hear the sound some
seconds of time after having seen the light; and as
sound does not travel so far as light, we sometimes
see the light at a distance too great to hear the sound.

(n) The breaking some pieces of China in the buffet,
may nevertheless seem to indicate that the lightning
was there; but as there is no mention of its having
hurt any part of the buffet, or of the walls of the
house, I should rather ascribe that effect to the con-
cussion of the air, or shake of the house by the
explosion.

Thus to me it appears that the house and its in-
habitants were saved by the rod, though the rod it-
self was unjointed by the stroke; and that, if it had
been made of one piece, and sunk deeper in the earth,
or had entered the earth at a greater distance from
the foundation, the mentioned small damages (ex-
cept the melting of the points) would not have
happened.

CCVI

TO MISS MARY STEVENSON

Monday morning, 8 March, 1762.

Dear Polly: — Your good mamma has just been
saying to me that she wonders what can possibly be
the reason she has not had a line from you in so long
a time. I have made no complaint of that kind, be-
ing conscious that, by not writing myself, I have for-
feited all claim to such favor, though no letters give

400 The Works of [1762

me more pleasure, and I often wish to hear from you;
but indolence grows upon me with years, and writing
grows more and more irksome to me.

Have you finished your course of philosophy ? No
more doubts to be resolved? No more questions to
ask? If so, you may now be at full leisure to im-
prove yourself in cards. Adieu, my dear child, and
believe me ever your affectionate friend,

B. Franklin.

P. S. — Respects to Mrs. Tickell, &c. Mamma bids
me tell you she is lately much afflicted and half a
cripple with the rheumatism. I send you two or
three French Gazettes de Medecine, which I have just
received from Paris, wherein is a translation of the
extract of a letter you copied out for me. You will
return them with my French letters on Electricity,
when you have perused them.

CCVII

TO MISS MARY STEVENSON

London, 22 March, 1762.

I must retract the charge of idleness in your stud-
ies, when I find you have gone through the doubly
difficult task of reading so big a book, on an abstruse
subject, and in a foreign language.

In answer to your question concerning the Leyden
phial. The hand that holds the bottle receives and
conducts away the electric fluid that is driven out of
the outside by the repulsive power of that which is

1762] Benjamin Franklin 401

forced into the inside of the bottle. As long as that
power remains in the same situation, it must prevent
the return of what it had expelled ; though the hand
would readily supply the quantity if it could be re-
ceived. Your affectionate friend,

B. Franklin.

CCVIII

TO MRS. DEBORAH FRANKLIN

London, 24 March, 1762.

Dear Child: — I condole with you most sin-
cerely on the death of our good mother,1 being ex-
tremely sensible of the distress and affliction it must
have thrown you into. Your comfort will be, that no
care was wanting on your part towards her, and that
she had lived as long as this life could afford her any
rational enjoyment. It is, I am sure, a satisfaction
to me, that I cannot charge myself with having ever
failed in one instance of duty and respect to her dur-
ing the many years that she called me son. The cir-
cumstances attending her death were indeed unhappy
in some respects ; but something must bring us all to
our end, and few of us shall see her length of days.
My love to brother John Read, and sister and cousin
Debby, and young cousin Johnny Read, and let
them all know that I sympathize with them all
affectionately.

This I write in haste, Mr. Beatty having just called
on me to let me know, that he is about to set out for

1 Mrs. Read, the mother of Mrs. Franklin.

VOL. III. — 26.

402 The Works of [1762

Portsmouth, in order to sail for America. I am fin-
ishing all business here in order for my return, which
will either be in the Virginia fleet, or by the packet
of May next; I am not yet determined which. I
pray God grant us a happy meeting.

We are all well, and Billy presents his duty. Mr.
Strahan has received your letter, and wonders he has
not been able to persuade you to come over. Mrs.
Stevenson desires her compliments; she expected
Sally would have answered her daughter's letter, that
went with the gold needle. I have received yours by
the last packet, and one from our friend Mr. Hughes.
I will try to write a line to him if I have time. If
not, please to tell him I will do all I can to serve him
in his affair. Acquaint Mr. Charles Norris that I
send him a gardener in Bolitho's ship. The particu-
lars of your letters I shall answer by the same ship.
I can now only add that I am, as ever, my dear
Debby, your affectionate husband,

B. Franklin.

CCIX

FROM DAVID HUME TO B. FRANKLIN

Edinburgh, io May, 1762.

Dear Sir: — I have a great many thanks to give
you for your goodness in remembering my request,
and for the exact description, which you sent me of
your method of preserving houses from thunder. I
communicated it to our Philosophical Society, as you
gave me permission ; and they desire me to tell you,

1762] Benjamin Franklin 403

that they claim it as their own, and intend to enrich
with it the first collection, which they may publish.
The established rule of our Society is, that, after a
paper is read to them, it is delivered by them to some
member, who is obliged, in a subsequent meeting, to
read some paper of remarks upon it.

It was communicated to our friend, Mr. Russel;
who is not very expeditious in finishing any under-
taking; and he did not read his remarks till the last
week, which is the reason why I have been so late
in acknowledging your favor. Mr. Russel's remarks,
besides the just praises of your invention, contained
only two proposals for improving it. One was that
in houses where the rain-water is carried off the roof
by a lead pipe, this metallic body might be employed
as a conductor to the electric fire, and save the ex-
pense of a new apparatus. Another was, that the
wire might be carried down to the foundation of
the house, and be thence conveyed below ground to
the requisite distance, which would better secure it
against accidents. I thought it proper to convey
to you these two ideas of so ingenious a man, that
you might adopt them, if they appear to you well
founded.

I am very sorry that you intend soon to leave our
hemisphere. America has sent us many good things,
gold, silver, sugar, tobacco, indigo, &c. ; but you are
the first philosopher, and indeed the first great man
of letters, for whom we are beholden to her. It is
our own fault that we have not kept him ; whence it
appears that we do not agree with Solomon, that
wisdom is above gold, for we take care never to send

404 The Works of [1762

back an ounce of the latter which we once lay our
fingers upon.

I saw yesterday our friend Sir Alexander Dick, who
desires me to present his compliments to you. We
are all very unwilling to think of your settling in
America, and that there is some chance for our never
seeing you again; but no one regrets it more than
does,

Dear Sir,

Your most affectionate humble servant,

David Hume.

CCX

TO DAVID HUME l

London, 19 May, 1762.

Dear Sir: — It is no small pleasure to me to hear
from you that my paper on the means of preserving
buildings from damage by lightning was acceptable
to the Philosophical Society. Mr. Russel's proposals
of improvement are very sensible and just. A leaden
spout or pipe is undoubtedly a good conductor, so far
as it goes. If the conductor enters the ground just
at the foundation, and from thence is carried horizon-
tally to some well, or to a distant rod driven down-
right into the earth, I would then propose that the
part under the ground should be lead, as less liable
to consume with rust than iron. Because, if the con-
ductor near the foot of the wall should be wasted, the

1 The letter from Mr. Hume, to which this is a reply, may be seen
supra, under date of May 10, 1762.

1762] Benjamin Franklin 405

lightning might act on the moisture of the earth, and
by suddenly rarefying it occasion an explosion that
may damage the foundation. In the experiment of
discharging my large case of electrical bottles through
a piece of small glass tube filled with water, the sud-
denly rarefied water has exploded with a force equal,
I think, to that of so much gunpowder ; bursting the
tube into many pieces, and driving them with vio-
lence in all directions and to all parts of the room.
The shivering of trees into small splinters, like a
broom, is probably owing to this rarefaction of the
sap in the longitudinal pores, or capillary pipes, in
the substance of the wood. And the blowing up of
bricks or stones in a hearth, rending stones out of a
foundation, and splitting of walls, are also probably
effects sometimes of rarefied moisture in the earth,
under the hearth, or in the walls. We should there-
fore have a durable conductor under ground, or con-
vey the lightning to the earth at some distance.

It must afford Lord Marischal a good deal of di-
version to preside in a dispute so ridiculous as that
you mention. Judges in their decisions often use
precedents. I have somewhere met with one that is
what the lawyers call a case in point. The Church
people and the Puritans in a country town had once
a bitter contention concerning the erecting of a May-
pole, which the former desired and the latter opposed.
Each party endeavoured to strengthen itself by ob-
taining the authority of the mayor, directing or for-
bidding a Maypole. He heard their altercation with
great patience, and then gravely determined thus:
" You, that are for having no Maypole, shall have no

406 The Works of [1762

Maypole; and you, that are for having a Maypole,
shall have a Maypole. Get about your business, and
let me hear no more of this quarrel." x

Your compliment of gold and wisdom is very oblig-
ing to me, but a little injurious to your country.
The various value of every thing in every part of this
world arises, you know, from the various proportions
of the quantity to the demand. We are told that
gold and silver in Solomon's time were so plenty, as
to be of no more value in his country than the stones
in the street. You have here at present just such a
plenty of wisdom. Your people are, therefore, not to
be censured for desiring no more among them than
they have ; and if I have any, I should certainly carry
it where, from its scarcity, it may probably come to a
better market.

I nevertheless regret extremely the leaving a coun-
try in which I have received so much friendship, and
friends whose conversation has been so agreeable and
so improving to me ; and that I am henceforth to re-
side at so great a distance from them is no small
mortification to, my dear friend, yours most affec-
tionately,

B. Franklin.

P. S. — My respectful compliments, if you please, to
Sir Alexander Dick, Lord Karnes, Mr. Alexander,
Mr. Russel, and any other inquiring friends. I shall
write to them before I leave the Island.

1 Lord Marischal was a person of consideration in Neufchatel, to whom
Dr. Franklin had communicated, through Mr. Hume, a paper contain-
ing directions for putting up lightning rods.

1762] Benjamin Franklin 407

CCXI

FIRE

Craven Street, 1762.

Did you ever see people at work with spades and
pickaxes, digging a cellar? When they have loos-
ened the earth perhaps a foot deep, that loose earth
must be carried off, or they can go no deeper; it is
in their way, and hinders the operation of the
instruments.

When the first foot of earth is removed, they can
dig and loosen the earth a foot deeper. But if those
who remove the earth should with it take away
the spades and pickaxes, the work will be equally
obstructed as if they had left the loose earth
unremoved.

I imagine the operation of fire upon fuel with the
assistance of air may be in some degree similar to
this. Fire penetrates bodies, and separates their
parts ; the air receives and carries off the parts sepa-
rated, which, if not carried off, would impede the ac-
tion of the fire. With this assistance therefore of a
moderate current of air, the separation increases, but
too violent a blast carries off the fire itself ; and thus
any fire may be blown out, as a candle by the breath,
if the blast be proportionable.

But if air contributed inflammatory matter, as
some have thought, then it should seem that, the
more air, the more flame would be augmented,
which beyond certain bounds does not agree with
the fact.

Some substances take fire, that is, are kindled by

408 The Works of [1762

the application of fire, much sooner than others.
This is in proportion as they are good or bad con-
ductors of fire, and as their parts cohere with less or
more strength. A bad conductor of fire not easily
permitting it to penetrate and be absorbed, and its
force divided among the whole substance, its opera-
tion is so much the stronger on the surface to which
it is applied, and is in a small depth of surface strong
enough to produce the separation of parts which we
will call burning. All oils and fats, wax, sulphur, and
most vegetable substances, are bad conductors of fire.
The oil of a lamp, burning at the top, may be scarce
warm at the bottom; a candle or a stick of wood,
inflamed at one end, is cool at the other. Metals,
which are better conductors, are not so easily kindled,
though, when sufficient fire is applied to them to
separate their parts, they will all burn. But the fire
applied to their surfaces enters more easily, is ab-
sorbed and divided; and not enough left on the
surface to overcome the cohesion of their parts. A
close contact with metals will for the same reason
prevent the burning of more inflammable substances.
A flaxen thread, bound close round an iron poker,
will not burn in the flame of a candle; for it must
imbibe a certain quantity of fire before it can burn,
that is, before its parts can separate ; but the poker,
as fast as the fire arrives, takes it from the thread,
conducts it away, and divides it in its own substance.
Common fire I conceive to be collected by friction
from the common mass of that fluid, in the same
manner as the electrical fluid is collected by friction,
which I have endeavoured to explain in some of my

1762] Benjamin Franklin 409

electrical papers, and, to avoid length in this letter,
refer you to them. In wheels, the particles of grease
and oil acting as so many little rollers, and prevent-
ing friction between the wood and wood, do thereby
prevent the collection of fire.

CCXII

TO MISS MARY STEVENSON

London, 7 June, 1762.

Dear Polly: — I received your favor of the 27th
past, and have since expected your intended philo-
sophical epistle. But you have not had leisure to
write it!

Your good mamma is now perfectly well, as I
think, excepting now and then a few rheumatic com-
plaints, which, however, seem gradually diminishing.
I am glad to hear you are about to enjoy the happi-
ness of seeing and being with your friends at Brom-
ley. My best respects to the good Dr. and Mrs.
Hawkesworth, and say to the dear ladies that I kiss
their hands respectfully and affectionately.

Our ships for America do not sail so soon as I
expected; it will be yet five or six weeks before we
embark, and leave the old world for the new. I
fancy I feel a little like dying saints, who, in parting
with those they love in this world, are only comforted
with the hope of more perfect happiness in the next.
I have, in America, connexions of the most engaging
kind; and, happy as I have been in the friendships

4io The Works of [1762

here contracted, those promise me greater and more
lasting felicity. But God only knows whether these
promises shall be fulfilled. Adieu, my dear good girl,
and believe me ever your affectionate friend.

B. Franklin.

CCXIII

ELECTRICAL EXPERIMENTS ON AMBER

Saturday, 3 July, 1762.

To try, at the request of a friend, whether amber
finely powdered might be melted and run together
again by means of the electrical fluid, I took a piece of
small glass tube, about two inches and a half long, the
bore about one twelfth of an inch diameter, the glass
itself about the same thickness. I introduced into
this tube some powder of amber, and with two pieces
of wire nearly fitting the bore, one inserted at one
end, the other at the other, I rammed the powder
hard between them in the middle of the tube, where
it stuck fast, and was in length about half an inch.
Then, leaving the wires in the tube, I made them part
of the electric circuit, and discharged through them
three rows of my case of bottles. The event was,
that the glass was broke into very small pieces and
those dispersed with violence in all directions. As I
did not expect this, I had not, as in other experi-
ments, laid thick paper over the glass to save my
eyes, so several of the pieces struck my face smartly,
and one of them cut my lip a little, so as to make it
bleed. I could find no part of the amber; but the

1762] Benjamin Franklin 41 1

table where the tube lay was stained very black in
spots, such as might be made by a thick smoke forced
on it by a blast, and the air was filled with a strong
smell, somewhat like that from burnt gunpowder.
Whence I imagined that the amber was burnt, and
had exploded as gunpowder would have done in the
same circumstances.

That I might better see the effect on the amber, I
made the next experiment in a tube formed of a card
rolled up and bound strongly with packthread. Its
bore was about one eighth of an inch diameter. I
rammed powder of amber into this as I had done into
the other, and as the quantity of amber was greater,
I increased the quantity of electric fluid, by discharg-
ing through it at once five rows of my bottles. On
opening the tube I found that some of the powder
had exploded; an impression was made on the tube,
though it was not hurt, and most of the powder re-
maining was turned black, which I suppose might be
by the smoke forced through it from the burned part ;
some of it was hard; but as it powdered again when
pressed by the fingers, I suppose that hardness not to
arise from melting any parts in it, but merely from
my ramming the powder when I charged the tube.

B. Franklin.

CCXIV

TO JOHN BAPTIST BECCARIA

London, 13 July, 1762.

Reverend Sir: — I once promised myself the
pleasure of seeing you at Turin; but as that is not

412 The Works of [1762

now likely to happen, being just about returning to
my native country, America, I sit down to take
leave of you (among others of my European friends
that I cannot see) by writing.

I thank you for the honorable mention you have so
frequently made of me in your letters to Mr. Collinson
and others; for the generous defence you undertook
and executed with so much success, of my electrical
opinions ; and for the valuable present you have made
me of your new work, from which I have received
great information and pleasure. I wish I could in re-
turn entertain you with any thing new of mine on
that subject; but I have not lately pursued it. Nor
do I know of any one here that is at present much
engaged in it.

Perhaps, however, it may be agreeable to you, as
you live in a musical country, to have an account of
the new instrument lately added here to the great
number that charming science was before possessed
of. As it is an instrument that seems peculiarly
adapted to Italian music, especially that of the soft
and plaintive kind, I will endeavour to give you such
a description of it, and of the manner of constructing
it, that you or any of your friends may be enabled to
imitate it, if you incline so to do, without being at the
expense and trouble of the many experiments I have
made in endeavouring to bring it to its present
perfection.

You have doubtless heard the sweet tone that is
drawn from a drinking glass by passing a wet finger
round its brim. One Mr. Puckeridge, a gentleman
from Ireland, was the first who thought of playing

ARMONICA.

p~

S&l.

Wli"'"'1!1

Fig. 2.

Plate II., Vol. III., p. 413.

1762] Benjamin Franklin 4*3

tunes, formed of these tones. He collected a number
of glasses of different sizes, fixed them near each other
on a table, and tuned them by putting into them
water more or less, as each note required. The tones
were brought out by passing his fingers round their
brims. He was unfortunately burned here, with his
instrument, in a fire which consumed the house he
lived in. Mr. E. Delaval, a most ingenious member
of our Royal Society, made one in imitation of it, with
a better choice and form of glasses, which was the
first I saw or heard. Being charmed by the sweet-
ness of its tones, and the music he produced from it,
I wished only to see the glasses disposed in a more
convenient form, and brought together in a narrower
compass, so as to admit of a greater number of tones,
and all within reach of hand to a person sitting before
the instrument, which I accomplished, after various
intermediate trials and less commodious forms, both
of glasses and construction, in the following manner.
The glasses are blown as near as possible in the
form of hemispheres, having each an open neck or
socket in the middle. (See Plate II., Figure 1.) The
thickness of the glass near the brim about a tenth of
an inch, or hardly quite so much, but thicker as it
comes nearer the neck, which in the largest glasses is
about an inch deep, and an inch and half wide within,
these dimensions lessening, as the glasses themselves
diminish in size, except that the neck of the smallest
ought not to be shorter than half an inch. The
largest glass is nine inches diameter, and the smallest
three inches. Between these two are twenty- three
different sizes, differing from each other a quarter of

414 The Works of [1762

an inch in diameter. To make a single instrument
there should be at least six glasses blown of each size ;
and out of this number one may probably pick thirty-
seven glasses (which are sufficient for three octaves
with all the semitones) that will be each either the
note one wants or a little sharper than that note, and
all fitting so well into each other as to taper pretty
regularly from the largest to the smallest. It is true
there are not thirty-seven sizes, but it often happens
that two of the same size differ a note or half note in
tone, by reason of a difference in thickness, and these
may be placed one in the other without sensibly
hurting the regularity of the taper form.

The glasses being chosen, and every one marked
with a diamond the note you intend it for, they are
to be tuned by diminishing the thickness of those
that are too sharp. This is done by grinding them
round from the neck towards the brim, the breadth
of one or two inches, as may be required; often try-
ing the glass by a well-tuned harpsichord, comparing
the tone drawn from the glass by your finger with
the note you want, as sounded by that string of the
harpsichord. When you come nearer the matter, be
careful to wipe the glass clean and dry before each
trial, because the tone is something natter when the
glass is wet than it will be when dry; and grinding
a very little between each trial, you will thereby tune
to great exactness. The more care is necessary in
this, because, if you go below your required tone,
there is no sharpening it again but by grinding some-
what off the brim, which will afterwards require
polishing, and thus increase the trouble.

1762] Benjamin Franklin 415

The glasses being thus tuned, you are to be pro-
vided with a case for them, and a spindle on which
they are to be fixed. (See Plate II., Figure 2.) My
case is about three feet long, eleven inches every way
wide within at the biggest end, and five inches at the
smallest end; for it tapers all the way, to adapt it
better to the conical figure of the set of glasses.
This case opens in the middle of its height, and the
upper part turns up by hinges fixed behind. The
spindle, which is of hard iron, lies horizontally from
end to end of the box within, exactly in the middle,
and is made to turn on brass gudgeons at each end.
It is round, an inch diameter at the thickest end, and
tapering to a quarter of an inch at the smallest. A
square shank comes from its thickest end through the
box, on which shank a wheel is fixed by a screw.
This wheel serves as a fly to make the motion
equable, when the spindle, with the glasses, is turned
by the foot like a spinning-wheel. My wheel is of
mahogany, eighteen inches diameter, and pretty
thick, so as to conceal near its circumference about
twenty-five pounds of lead. An ivory pin is fixed in
the face of this wheel, and about four inches from the
axis. Over the neck of this pin is put the loop of
the string that comes up from the movable step to
give it motion. The case stands on a neat frame
with four legs.

To fix the glasses on the spindle, a cork is first to
be fitted in each neck pretty tight, and projecting a
little without the neck, that the neck of one may not
touch the inside of another when put together, for
that would make a jarring. These corks are to be

4i 6 The Works of [1762

perforated with holes of different diameters, so as to
suit that part of the spindle on which they are to be
fixed. When a glass is put on, by holding it stiffly
between both hands, while another turns the spindle,
it may be gradually brought to its place. But care
must be taken that the hole be not too small, lest, in
forcing it up, the neck should split; nor too large,
lest the glass, not being firmly fixed, should turn or
move on the spindle, so as to touch and jar against
its neighbouring glass. The glasses thus are placed
one in another, the largest on the biggest end of the
spindle, which is to the left hand; the neck of this
glass is towards the wheel, and the next goes into it
in the same position, only about an inch of its brim
appearing beyond the brim of the first; thus pro-
ceeding, every glass when fixed shows about an inch
of its brim (or three quarters of an inch, or half an
inch, as they grow smaller) beyond the brim of the
glass that contains it; and it is from these exposed
parts of each glass that the tone is drawn, by laying
a finger upon one of them as the spindle and glasses
turn round.

My largest glass is G, a little below the reach of a
common voice, and my highest G, including three
complete octaves. To distinguish the glasses the
more readily to the eye, I have painted the apparent
parts of the glasses within side, every semitone white,
and the other notes of the octave with the seven
prismatic colors, viz., C, red; D, orange; E, yellow;
F, green; G, blue; A, indigo; B, purple; and C,
red again; so that glasses of the same color (the
white excepted) are always octaves to each other.

1762] Benjamin Franklin 417

This instrument is played upon, by sitting before
the middle of the set of glasses as before the keys of
a harpsichord, turning them with the foot, and wet-
ting them now and then with a spunge and clean
water. The fingers should be first a little soaked in
water, and quite free from all greasiness ; a little fine
chalk upon them is sometimes useful, to make them
catch the glass and bring out the tone more readily.
Both hands are used, by which means different parts
are played together. Observe, that the tones are
best drawn out when the glasses turn from the ends
of the fingers, not when they turn to them.

The advantages of this instrument are, that its
tones are incomparably sweet beyond those of any
other; that they may be swelled and softened at
pleasure by stronger or weaker pressures of the fin-
ger, and continued to any length; and that the in-
strument, being once well tuned, never again wants
tuning.

In honor of your musical language, I have borrowed
from it the name of this instrument, calling it the
Armonica.1

With great esteem and respect, I am, &c,

B. Franklin.

CCXV

TO OLIVER NEAVE

20 July, 1762.

Dear Sir: — I have perused your paper on sound,
and would freely mention to you, as you desire it,

1 Some other particulars respecting the Armonica may be found in a
letter to M. Dubourg, tinder the date of December 8, 1772. — Editor.

VOL. 111. — 27.

4i 8 The Works of [1762

every thing that appeared to me to need correction;
but nothing of that kind occurs to me, unless it be
where you speak of the air as " the best medium for
conveying sound." Perhaps this is speaking rather
too positively, if there be, as I think there are, some
other mediums that will convey it farther and more
readily. It is a well-known experiment, that the
scratching of a pin at one end of a long piece of tim-
ber may be heard by an ear applied near the other
end, though it could not be heard at the same dis-
tance through the air. And two stones being struck
smartly together under water, the stroke may be
heard at a greater distance by an ear also placed
under water, than it can be heard through the air.
I think I have heard it near a mile; how much
farther it may be heard I know not; but suppose a
great deal farther, because the sound did not seem
faint, as if at a distance, like distant sounds through
air, but smart and strong, and as if present just at
the ear. I wish you would repeat these experiments
now you are upon the subject, and add your own
observations. And, if you were to repeat, with your
naturally exact attention and observation, the com-
mon experiment of the bell in the exhausted re-
ceiver, possibly something new may occur to you, in
considering :

1 . Whether the experiment is not ambiguous ; that
is, whether the gradual exhausting of the air, as it
creates an increasing difference of pressure on the out-
side, may not occasion in the glass a difficulty of
vibrating, that renders it less fit to communicate to
the air without the vibrations that strike it from

1762] Benjamin Franklin 419

within; and the diminution of the sound arise from
this cause, rather than from the diminution of the
air?

2. Whether, as the particles of air themselves are
at a distance from each other, there must not be some
medium between them, proper for conveying sound,
since otherwise it would stop at the first particle?

3. Whether the great difference we experience in
hearing sounds at a distance, when the wind blows
towards us from the sonorous body, or towards that
from us, can be well accounted for by adding to or
subtracting from the swiftness of sound the degree
of swiftness that is in the wind at the time? The
latter is so small in proportion, that it seems as if it
could scarce produce any sensible effect, and yet the
difference is very great. Does not this give some
hint, as if there might be a subtile fluid, the conduc-
tor of sound, which moves at different times in differ-
ent directions over the surface of the earth, and
whose motion may perhaps be much swifter than
that of the air in our strongest winds; and that, in
passing through air, it may communicate that mo-
tion to the air which we call wind, though a motion
in no degree so swift as its own ?

4. It is somewhere related that a pistol, fired on
the top of an exceeding high mountain, made a noise
like thunder in the valleys below. Perhaps this fact
is not exactly related; but, if it is, would not one
imagine from it that the rarer the air, the greater
sound might be produced in it from the same cause ?

5. Those balls of fire which are sometimes seen
passing over a country, computed by philosophers to

420 The Works of [1762

be often thirty miles high at least, sometimes burst
at that height; the air must be exceeding rare
there, and yet the explosion produces a sound that
is heard at that distance, and for seventy miles
round on the surface of the earth, so violent too as
to shake buildings and give an apprehension of an
earthquake. Does not this look as if a rare atmos-
phere, almost a vacuum, was no bad conductor of
sound?

I have not made up my own mind on these points,
and only mention them for your consideration,
knowing that every subject is the better for your
handling it. With the greatest esteem, I am, &c,

B. Franklin.

CCXVI

TO MR. WILLIAM STRAHAN AT BATH

London, 20 July, 1762.

Dear Sir: — I received your very kind letter and
invitation to Bath where I am sure I could spend
some days very happily with you and Mrs. Strahan,
if my time would permit; but the man-of-war, that
is to be our convoy, is under sailing orders for the
30th of this month so that 't is impossible for me to
leave London till I leave it forever, having at least
twenty days' work to do in the ten days that are
only left me.

I shall send to the Angel Inn in Oxford a parcel
directed to you, containing books I send as presents
to some acquaintance there ; which I beg you would

1762] Benjamin Franklin 421

cause to be delivered. I shall write a line to one
of them, as you desire. The parcel is to go by the
Thursday's coach.

I hope for the pleasure of seeing you before I set
out. Billy and Mrs. Stevenson join in respects and
best wishes for you and Mrs. Strahan, with, dear
Friend,

Yours affectionately,

B. Franklin.

P. S. — I feel here like a thing out of its place, and
useless because it is out of its place. How then can
I any longer be happy in England ? You have great
powers of persuasion, and might easily prevail on me
to do any thing; but not any longer to do nothing.
I must go home. Adieu.

CCXVII

TO MR. WILLIAM STRAHAN AT OXFORD

London, 23 July, 1762.

Dear Straney: — As Dr. Hawkesworth calls you,
I send you inclosed a line to my good friend Dr.
Kelley; which you will do me the favour to deliver
with the parcel directed to him. As it is vacation
time I doubt whether any other acquaintance of
mine may be in Oxford, or at least any on whose
good nature I could so far presume; tho' according
to the way of the world, having received a civility,
gives one a kind of right to demand another; they
took the trouble of showing me Oxford, and therefore
The Works of [1762

I might request them to show it to any of my
friends. None of the Oxford people are under any
other obligation to me than that of having already
oblig'd me, and being oblig'd to go on as they have
begun. My best respects to Mrs. Strahan, and love
to little Peggy. They say we are to sail in a week
or ten days. I expect to see you once more. I
value myself much, on being able to resolve on
doing the right thing, in opposition to your almost
irresistible eloquence, secretly supported and backed
by my own treacherous inclinations. Adieu, my
dear friend.

Yours affectionately,

B. Franklin.

CCXVIII

TO MISS MARY STEVENSON

Portsmouth, ii August, 1762.

My Dear Polly: — This is the best paper I can
get at this wretched inn, but it will convey what is
intrusted to it as faithfully as the finest. It will
tell my Polly how much her friend is afflicted that
he must, perhaps, never again see one for whom he
has so sincere an affection, joined to so perfect an
esteem, who he once flattered himself might become
his own, in the tender relation of a child, but can
now entertain such pleasing hopes no more. Will
it tell how much he is afflicted? No, it cannot.

Adieu, my dearest child. I will call you so. Why
should I not call you so, since I love you with all

I762] Benjamin Franklin 423

the tenderness of a father? Adieu. May the God
of all goodness shower down his choicest blessings
upon you, and make you infinitely happier than
that event would have made you. And wherever I
am, believe me to be, with unalterable affection, my
dear Polly, your sincere friend,1

B. Franklin.

CCXIX

TO LORD KAMES

Portsmouth, 17 August, 1762.

My Dear Lord : — I am now waiting here only for
a wind to waft me to America, but cannot leave this
happy island and my friends in it without extreme
regret, though I am going to a country and a people
that I love. I am going from the old world to the
new; and I fancy I feel like those who are leaving
this world for the next: grief at the parting; fear
of the passage; hope of the future. These different
passions all affect their minds at once; and these
have tendered me down exceedingly. It is usual for
the dying to beg forgiveness of their surviving
friends, if they have ever offended them.

Can you, my Lord, forgive my long silence, and
my not acknowledging till now the favor you did me
in sending me your excellent book? Can you make

1 Franklin had earnestly desired his son to marry Miss Stevenson.
William, however, became too much interested in a young West Indian
girl named Downs, and was already affianced to her. The tone of this
letter shows that it was a bitter disappointment to the father, as it
was no doubt a misfortune to the son.
The Works of [1762

some allowance for a fault in others which you have
never experienced in yourself; for the bad habit of
postponing from day to day what one every day re-
solves to do to-morrow? — a habit that grows upon
us with years, and whose only excuse is we know not
how to mend it. If you are disposed to favor me
you will also consider how much one's mind is taken
up and distracted by the many little affairs one has
to settle before the undertaking such a voyage, after
so long a residence in a country; and how little, in
such a situation, one's mind is fitted for serious and
attentive reading; which, with regard to the Ele-
ments of Criticism, I intended before I should write.
I can now only confess and endeavour to amend. In
packing up my books, I have reserved yours to read
on the passage. I hope I shall therefore be able to
write to you upon it soon after my arrival. At pres-
ent I can only return my thanks, and say that the
parts I have read gave me both pleasure and in-
struction; that I am convinced of your position,
new as it was to me, that a good taste in the arts
contributes to the improvement of morals; and
that I have had the satisfaction of hearing the
work universally commended by those who have
read it.

And now, my dear Sir, accept my sincere thanks
for the kindness you have shown me, and my best
wishes of happiness to you and yours. Wherever I
am, I shall esteem the friendship you honor me with
as one of the felicities of my life ; I shall endeavour
to cultivate it by a more punctual correspondence;
and I hope frequently to hear of your welfare and

1762] Benjamin Franklin 425

prosperity. Adieu, my dear friend, and believe me
ever most affectionately yours,

B. Franklin.1

CCXX

TO MR. WILLIAM STRAHAN

Portsmouth, Monday, 23 August, 1762.

Dear Sir: — I have been two nights on board ex-
pecting to sail, but the wind continuing contrary,
am just now on shore again, and have met with
your kind letter of the 20th. I thank you even for
the reproofs it contains, tho' I have not altogether de-
served them. I cannot, I assure you, quit even this
disagreeable place without regret, as it carries me
still farther from those I love, and from the oppor-
tunities of hearing of their welfare. The attraction
of reason is at present for the other side of the water,
but that of inclination will be for this side. You
know which usually prevails. I shall probably make
but this one vibration and settle here forever. No-
thing will prevent it, if I can, as I hope I can, prevail
with Mrs. F. to accompany me, especially if we have
a peace. I will not tell you that to be near and with
you and yours is any part of my inducement. It
would look like a compliment extorted from me by
your pretences to insignificancy. Nor will I own

1 Though Dr. Franklin sailed from England in the latter half of
August, and soon after writing this letter, he did not reach Philadel-
phia until the ist of November. He had been absent five years, hav-
ing arrived in England in July, 1757. The Assembly of Pennsylvania
promptly voted their thanks to him for his services as their agent.

426 The Works of [1762

that your persuasions and arguments have wrought
this change in my former resolutions; tho' it is true
that they have frequently intruded themselves into
my consideration whether I would or not. I trust,
however, that we shall once more see each other, and
be happy again together, which God, &c.

My love to Mrs. Strahan, and your amiable and
valuable children. Heaven bless you all whatever
becomes of

Your much oblig'd and affectionate friend,

B. Franklin.

CCXXI

TO JOHN PRINGLE, IN LONDON

Philadelphia, i December, 1762.

Sir: — During our passage to Madeira, the weather
being warm, and the cabin windows constantly open
for the benefit of the air, the candles at night flared
and ran very much, which was an inconvenience. At
Madeira, we got oil to burn, and with a common glass
tumbler or beaker, slung in wire, and suspended to
the ceiling of the cabin, and a little wire hoop for the
wick, furnished with corks to float on the oil, I made
an Italian lamp, that gave us very good light all over
the table. The glass at bottom contained water to
about one third of its height ; another third was taken
up with oil ; the rest was left empty that the sides of
the glass might protect the flame from the wind.
There is nothing remarkable in all this; but what
follows is particular. At supper, looking on the

1762] Benjamin Franklin 427

lamp, I remarked that though the surface of the oil
was perfectly tranquil, and duly preserved its posi-
tion and distance with regard to the brim of the glass,
the water under the oil was in great commotion,
rising and falling in irregular waves, which continued
during the whole evening. The lamp was kept burn-
ing as a watch-light all night, till the oil was spent
and the water only remained. In the morning I
observed that though the motion of the ship con-
tinued the same, the water was now quiet, and its
surface as tranquil as that of the oil had been the
evening before. At night again, when oil was put
upon it, the water resumed its irregular motions, ris-
ing in high waves almost to the surface of the oil,
but without disturbing the smooth level of that sur-
face. And this was repeated every day during the
voyage.

Since my arrival in America I have repeated the
experiment frequently thus. I have put a pack-
thread round a tumbler, with strings to the same,
from each side, meeting above it in a knot at about a
foot distance from the top of the tumbler. Then
putting in as much water as would fill about one
third part of the tumbler, I lifted it up by the knot,
and swung it to and fro in the air; when the water
appeared to keep its place in the tumbler as steadily
as if it had been ice. But pouring gently in upon
the water about as much oil, and then again swinging
it in the air as before, the tranquillity before pos-
sessed by the water was transferred to the surface of
the oil, and the water under it was agitated with the
same commotions as at sea.

428 The Works of [1762

I have shown this experiment to a number of in-
genious persons. Those who are but slightly ac-
quainted with the principles of hydrostatics, &c, are
apt to fancy immediately that they understand it,
and readily attempt to explain it ; but their explan-
ations have been different, and to me not very
intelligible. Others, more deeply skilled in those
principles, seem to wonder at it, and promise to
consider it. And I think it is worth considering;
for a new appearance, if it cannot be explained by
our old principles, may afford us new ones, of use
perhaps in explaining some other obscure parts of
natural knowledge. I am, &c,

B. Franklin.

CCXXII

TO WILLIAM STRAHAN

Philadelphia, 2 December, 1762.

Dear Straney: — As good Dr. Hawkesworth calls
you, to whom my best respects. I got home well
the 1st of November, and had the happiness to find
my little family perfectly well, and that Dr. Smith's
reports of the diminutions of my friends were all
false. My house has been full of a succession of
them from morning to night, ever since my arrival,
congratulating me on my return with the utmost
cordiality and affection. My fellow citizens, while
I was on the sea, had, at the annual election, chosen
me unanimously, as they had done every year while
I was in England, to be their representative in As-
sembly and would, they say, if I had not disappointed

1762] Benjamin Franklin 429

them by coming privately to town before they heard
of my landing, have met me with 500 horse. Excuse
my vanity in writing this to you who know what has
provoked me to it. My love to good Mrs. Strahan,
and your children, particularly my little wife. I
shall write more fully per next opportunity, having
now only time to add that I am, with unchangeable
affection, my dear friend,

Yours sincerely,

B. Franklin.
Mrs. Franklin and Sally desire their compliments
and thanks to you all for your kindness to me while
in England.

CCXXIII

TO MR. WHITEFORD

Philadelphia, 7 December, 1762.

Dear Sir: — I thank you for your kind congratu-
lations on my son's promotion and marriage.1 If he

1 Very shortly after Franklin's leaving England, his son William
married and was appointed governor of New Jersey. This, his only
surviving son, was born in Pennsylvania, in 1731. His father had
married Miss Read on the 1st of September, in the year 1730. Wil-
liam may therefore be said to have been born in wedlock, though he
was not reputed to be the son of Mrs. Franklin. He did not find a
home in his father's house until he was about a year old, from which
time he was treated both by the doctor and Mrs. Franklin with all the
tenderness and consideration to be expected from the most devoted of
parents.

He was educated with care. He was at an early age appointed
clerk of the House of Assembly of Pennsylvania and postmaster of
Philadelphia. In the French war he attained the rank of captain and
served with credit at Ticonderoga. He accompanied his father to
England in 1756, where he studied law, and in due time was called to

430 The Works of [1762

makes a good governor and husband (as I hope he
will, for I know he has good principles and a good
disposition), these events will both of them give me
continual pleasure.

The taking of the Havana, on which I congratu-
late you, is a conquest of the greatest importance,
and will doubtless contribute a due share of weight
in procuring us reasonable terms of peace. It has
been, however, the dearest conquest, by far, that we
have made this war, when we consider the terrible
havoc made by sickness in that brave army of veter-
ans, now almost totally ruined. I thank you for the

the bar. Not long after this, the University of Oxford accentuated
the compliment which it paid to the father in conferring upon him the
degree of Doctor of Laws, by conferring the degree of Master of Arts
upon his son. On the 9th of September, 1762, his commission as
"Governor of Nova Caesarea or New Jersey in America" was issued.
He got on very well with his people until the news of the battle of Lex-
ington reached them, and which greatly inflamed them. Lord Ster-
ling, one of the members of the governor's council, immediately
accepted a military commission under the Provincial Congress. The
governor suspended him. From this moment all harmony between
the governor and the council was at an end. The Assembly, which
had been prorogued on the 24th of May preceding, was called upon by
proclamation to convene again June 20th. This was regarded as a
contempt of the Continental Congress, and the governor was thereupon
declared by the Assembly an enemy of his country, deprived of his
salary, arrested, and finally sent to Connecticut a prisoner of war. He
was detained a prisoner there two years and five months. He was
then released and repairing to New York, became President of the
Board of Associated Royalists.

After a sojourn of about four years in New York, he sailed for Eng-
land in August, 1782. The personal estate which he was obliged to
sacrifice to his loyalty, amounting to £1,800, was restored to him by
the English government, and an annual allowance of £300 was made
to him, in addition to a pension of £500, or half his salary and per-
quisites, which had been previously granted to him. He died Nov.
17, 1 81 3, at the age of 82 years.

His marriage, referred to in the letter to Mr. Whiteford, was with a

1762] Benjamin Franklin 431

humorous and sensible print you sent me, which af-
forded me and several of my friends great pleasure.
The piece from your own pencil is acknowledged to
bear a strong and striking likeness, but it is otherwise

such a picture of your friend as Dr. S would

have drawn, black, and all black. I think you will
hardly understand this remark, but your neighbour
Mrs. Stevenson can explain it. Painting has scarce
made her appearance among us; but her sister art,
poetry, has some votaries. I send you a few blos-
soms of American verse, the lispings of our young
Muses, which I hope your motherly critics will treat
with some indulgence.

West Indian lady, whose maiden name was Elizabeth Downs. She is
described as amiable and accomplished. She died on the 28 th of
July, 1778, in the 49th year of her age.

The fact that William Franklin received an appointment of so much
dignity as that of governor of the province of New Jersey, at a time
when the relations of the colonies and the mother country were already
darkened by the shadows of coming dissensions, was regarded with
some suspicion by some of the people of Pennsylvania. The appoint-
ment was no doubt intended to detach the doctor from the popular
party. "I am told," said Thomas Penn, one of the Proprietaries,
writing to Governor Hamilton, "you will find Mr. Franklin more
tractable, and I believe we shall, in matters of prerogative; as his son
must obey instructions, and what he is ordered to do his father cannot
well oppose in Pennsylvania."

The artifice had its perfect work upon the son, who, to the infinite
chagrin of the father, from that time forth became the servile instru-
ment of the ministry, and in due course of time, as already stated, a
pensioned refugee in London.

The ministers, however, were not long in discovering that their
blandishments had been wasted upon the doctor, whose zeal and
vigilance in maintaining the rights of the colonies increased with every
new provocation.

Between the doctor and his son there was no intercourse from the
beginning to the end of the war. A partial reconciliation, however,
took place in 1784, and just before the former returned from Europe
for the last time. — Editor.
The Works of [1762

I shall never touch the sweet strings of the British
lyre, without remembering my British friends, and
particularly the kind giver of the instrument, who
has my best wishes of happiness for himself and for
his wife and his children, when it pleases God to send
him any. I am, dear Sir, with the sincerest esteem,

&c.

B. Franklin.

CCXXIV

TO MR. PETER FRANKLIN, AT NEWPORT

. . You may acquaint the gentlemen that
desired you to inquire my opinion of the best method
of securing a powder magazine from lightning, that I
think they cannot do better than to erect a mast not
far from it, which may reach fifteen or twenty feet
above the top of it, with a thick iron rod in one piece
fastened to it, pointed at the highest end, and reach-
ing down through the earth till it comes to water.
Iron is a cheap metal ; but, if it were dearer, as this is
a public thing, the expense is insignificant ; therefore
I would have the rod at least an inch thick, to allow
for its gradually wasting by rust ; it will last as long
as the mast, and may be renewed with it. The sharp
point for five or six inches should be gilt.

But there is another circumstance of importance to
the strength, goodness, and usefulness of the powder,
which does not seem to have been enough attended
to : I mean the keeping it perfectly dry. For want of
a method of doing this, much is spoiled in damp

1762] Benjamin Franklin 433

magazines, and much so damaged as to become of
little value. If, instead of barrels, it were kept in
cases of bottles well corked ; or in large tin canisters,
with small covers shutting close by means of oiled
paper between, or covering the joining on the canis-
ter ; or, if in barrels, then the barrels lined with thin
sheet-lead; no moisture in either of these methods
could possibly enter the powder, since glass and
metals are both impervious to water.

By the latter of these means you see tea is brought
dry and crisp from China to Europe, and thence to
America, though it comes all the way by sea in the
damp hold of a ship. And by this method, grain,
meal, &c, if well dried before it is put up, may be
kept for ages sound and good.

There is another thing very proper to line small
barrels with ; it is what they call tinfoil, or leaf -tin,
being tin milled between rollers till it becomes as thin
as paper, and more pliant, at the same time that its
texture is extremely close. It may be applied to the
wood with common paste, made with boiling water
thickened with flour; and, so laid on, will lie very
close and stick well; but I should perfer a hard,
sticky varnish for that purpose, made of linseed oil
much boiled. The heads might be lined separately,
the tin wrapping a little round their edges. The
barrel, while the lining is laid on, should have the end
hoops slack, so that the staves standing at a little
distance from each other may admit the head into its
groove. The tinfoil should be plied into the groove.
Then, one head being put in, and that end hooped
tight, the barrel would be fit to receive the powder,
The Works of [1751-1763

and when the other head is put in and the hoops
drove up, the powder would be safe from moisture,
even if the barrel were kept under water. This tin-
foil is but about eighteen pence sterling a pound, and
is so extremely thin that, I imagine, a pound of it
would line three or four powder barrels.

I am, &c.,

B. Franklin.

CCXXV

b. franklin's services in the general assembly

I751-
Aug. 13. Takes his seat in Assembly. Put on a

Committee to prepare a Bill, same day.

Aug. 15. Sent up with a Message to Gov11 Js Hn.

Aug. 17. On a Commee to prepare an answer to
Gov11 Messages.

Aug. 20. Reports on the subject of a Bridge over
Skuylkill.

Aug. 22. Reports on the subject of Indian Ex-
penses.
Seven Resolutions N. C. D., of his Draw-
ing, upon that Report.
Appointed on a Committee to draw an ad-
dress to the Bonrick [mutilated] ing in
pursuance of those Resolves.

Aug. 23. Reported the same.

Aug. 24. It was approved — but not put on the
Minutes.

Oct. 14. Return 'd a Member for Philada.
Sent on a Message to the Gov.

1751-1763] Benjamin Franklin 435

I751-
Oct. 15. On the Committee of Accts., and Commec

of Grievances, and Commee to revise the

Minutes.
Oct. 16. On Committee of Correspondence.

I752-

Feb. 3. On a Message to the Governor.

Feb. 7. On Commee to inspect Accts.

Feb. 8. On D° to consider a Petition of Bakers.

Feb. 17. On D° for examining the laws relating to
fees.

Feb. 24. On D° for a Bill relating to Dogs.

March 6. On D° to answer a Message.

March 11. On D° to see the Great Seal affixed to
laws.
On D° to inquire into the State of our
Paper Currency, Trade, Numbers of
People, &c.

Aug. 13. On a Message to the Gov?" with the Bill of
Fees.

Aug. 20. On a Committee for Conference with the
Govf on that Bill.
Makes report in writing on the State of
Currency, &c.

Aug. 21. Ordered to meet some of the Council, &c.

Aug. 22. On a Message to Governor.

Oct. 14. Return 'd a Member for Philada.
Sent on a Message to the Govr.

Oct. 17. Appointed on 4 Committees, viz., Griev-
ances, Revisal of Minutes [and?i] Ac-
counts, Correspondence, Laws, [muti-
lated] [?wi]th the Speaker to procure
Books and Maps.

436 The Works of [17 51-1763

x752-
Oct. 17. ... Committee to bring in a Bill . . .

the Govr on the Navy Bill . . . Com-
mittee [prejpare a Message ... of
the Comee of Grievances

1753-

May 30. On a Committee to consider the Repre-
sentation to the Proprietaries of 1751.
and the answer thereto.
On D° to prepare an Answer to Govr Mes-
sage.

Sept. 1 . On a Committee to consider Govr propos 'd
Amendmts to a Money Bill.

Sept. 4. On a Committee to Answer the Governrs.
Message.

Sept. 7. On D° to report on a Message from the
Govr.
175 [mutilated]

Sept. 15. Return 'd again for Philada.

Sent on a Message to the Govr.

Sept. 16. Appointed on 4 Committees, viz., Corre-
spondence, Grievances, Accts., Revisal
of Minutes.

Sept. 17. On two more Committees, viz., To inspect
the laws; and the State of Trade, Cur-
rency, &c.

1754.
Feb. 5. Reports thereupon —

Feb. 14. Translates a French Letter to Govr Din-

widdie.
Feb. 15. Reports on the Laws.
Feb. 26. On a Committee for Indian Trade.

I7SI-1763l

I754-
March 5.

March 6.
March 7.
April 5.
April

April 12.
April 13.

April 15.
April 18.

Aug. 9.

1754-
Oct. 14.
Oct. 15.

Dec. 31.

March 17.
March 18.

1755-
March 20.

Benjamin Franklin
On D° for considering a Petition for laying

out Townships.
On D° for bringing in a Bill respecting the

holding of Courts.
On D° to consider the Western Bounds.
Reports on D°.

On a Committee to bring in a Money Bill.
Gov1" appoints him a Commissioner for the

Albany Treaty.
Approved by the Assembly.
On a Committee to inquire into the facts

of a Petition.
On D° to answer a Message from the Govr.
A number of Resolves drawn up by him

and agreed to.
On a Committee to bring in a Money Bill.

Return 'd for Philada.

Appointed on Committees of Grievances,
and Revisals of Minutes, and Corre-
spondence.

Representation to the Proprietaries, draw
[mutilated] . . . Augc 3 . . . put
on the Votes ... 5. [mutilated]

Takes his seat in . . . house.

On a Committee to answer . . . and
d . . . the Answers.

On a Commee to answer an . . . Mes-
sage.

Lays before the house . . . rec'd from
the Gov1
1755-

March 22.

April 1.
April 2.

April 9.
May. 12

May 14-

May 16.
June 13.

June 14.

June 17.
June 17.
June 24.
July 28.
July 29.

The Works of

[1751-1763

On a Commee to bring in a bill relating to
provisions exported.

Requested to consider of establishing a
Post for General Braddock.

Memorial from Josiah Quincy drawn by
him.

Sundry orders of his proposing and draw-
ing to supply N. England with pro-
visions, &c.

Gives his proposal to the House about the
post which was agreed to.

Receives the thanks of the House for his
great Services in his late journey to the
back country, etc.

On a Committee to prepare a slate of the
Bills.

On D° to prepare a Message to the Govr.

On D° to answer another Message and he
draws the answer.

Communicates to the House the letters of
thanks he had received from Gen. Sir
Peter Halkes and Col. Dunbar.

On a Commee to answer a Message of the
Govr.

On D° to prepare a Bill.

On D° to prepare another Bill.

On D° to answer a Message.

On D° to D°.

On D° to prepare a Bill for granting 50,-

000 £ to the King's use.
Sent with it to the Govr.

1751-1763] Benjamin Franklin 439

1755-
Aug. 5. On D° to answer his Message of Amend-
ments.
Aug. 6. On D° to answer a Message and draws it
— a long one.
On D° for a Bill to provide Quarters for the
King's Troops.
Aug. 13. On D° to answer a long Message.
Aug. 21. On D° to answer a Message.
Aug. 22. To dispose of money for the defense of the

frontiers.
Sept. 15. On D° to prepare a Bill for regulating In-
spectors.
Sept. 19. Requested by the House to endeavour to
prevail with Col. Dunbar to discharge
servants and apprentices.
On a Committee to answer a Message.
Produces to the House a letter to himself
from T. Hutchison,1 which induces the
grant of 10,000 £ to Massachusetts.
Sept. 17. Returned for Philada.

Sent with verbal Message to Govr.
On 4 Committees : Correspondence, Griev-
ances, Minutes, Laws.
On D° to bring in a Money Bill 60,-

000 £.
On D° to prepare Bill for supplying our

Indians.
On D° to answer a Message.
Nov. 10. On a Co. [mutilated] answer a Message.

1 Governor of the province of Massachusetts and author of the letters
which, some eight years later, were destined to work his ruin. — Ed.

44© The Works of [1751-1763

i755»

Nov. 13. On D° [mutilated] . . . sides two appli-
cations to the House from Quakers, and
from the Mayor of Philada, &c.

Nov. 17. On D° to answer a Message.

Nov. 19. B . . . Leave . . . brings in a Militia
Bill
On a Committee to answer a Message.

Nov. 20. On a Committee to amend the Militia Bill.

Nov. 22. On D° to consider Govrs message.

Nov. 25. On D° to bring in a Money Bill exempting
the Propriey. Estate in consideration of
their gift of 5,000 £.

Nov. 29. On D° to answer a Message.

Dec. 3. On D° to answer a Message.

1756.
Feb. I still on the Frontiers building forts.

Feb. 7. On Commee to prepare an Address to Gov
respecting the enlistment of Servants
and draws it.
Feb. 19. Lays before the house letters to him from
Gen. Shirley.
On a Commee to answer a Message.
March 3. Brings in a Bill by leave of the House to

Regulate soldiers, &c.
March 5. Watch and Lamp Bill brought in.
March 10. On Committee to amend soldiers' Bill.
March 13. Moves the House again on this Bill.

On Commee for that purpose.
March 17. Sent with the Bill to the Govr.

Goes to Virginia.
May 12. On Commee to answer a Message.
June 2. On D° to D°.

1751-1763] Benjamin Franklin 441

i7S6.

July 22. Then at N. York, charg'd with an address

to Gen1 Shirley, going to England.
Aug. 17. On Commee to bring in a Bill granting
40,000 £.
W. M. Denny, Govr.

On Commee to prepare address to the Gov-
ernor.
On D° to prepare Answers to Govrs.

Speech and Message.
On a Message to the Governor.
Draws a long Paper of Remarks on Propy.

Instructions.
Appointed a Commissioner in the Act

. . . 60,000 £.
On a Commee to prepare reasons in answer

... to the Bill.
Draws resolutions relating . . .
On Commee to prepare a new B . . . D°
to D° ... up with the 30,000 £
Bi . . .
Oct. 14. Return 'd for Philada.
Oct. 18. Order on 3 Committees: Correspondence

Grievances, Minutes.
Oct. 21. On D° for preparing a Bill to regulate the
hire of carriages.

Oct. 22. On D° for D° Billeting of soldiers.

Oct. 26. On D° to confer with Gov1* about In-
dians.
Oct. 27. With leave brings in a Bill to regulate

forces of this Province.
Oct. 28. As President of the Hospital lays before
the House the Accts. thereof.

Aug.
Aug.

20.

21.

Aug.

3°-

Sept.
Sept.

1.
3-

Sept.

8.

Sept.

*3'

Sept.

16.

442 The Works of [1751-1763

1756.

Oct. 28. On a Committee to prepare another Militia
Bill.

Oct. 29. On D° to answer Govr Message.

Nov. 5. On D° to compare Bills.

On D° to accompany the Governor to
treat with Indians [at] Easton.

Nov. 23. On D° to prepare a Message to the Gov1".

Dec. 2. On D° to examine Journals of House of
Commons concerning Elections.

Dec. 3. Reports on the same.

Dec. 8. On a Commee to prepare answer to Govr's
Message.

Dec. 16. On D° to D° Message concerning Quarters.

Dec. 18. On D° to D°.

Dec. 19. On D° to confer with the Gov1".

Dec. 22. On D° to answer a Message abt Quarters.

Dec. 24. On D° to prepare a Bill for granting
100,000 £ by Tax.

Jan. 11. On D° to prepare a Bill to relieve Inn-
keepers.

Jan. 24. On D° to prepare a Bill to strike a sum of
Pap. money.

Jan. 28. On D° to wait on the Govr with a Mes-
sage.

Jan. 29. Reports concerning the Treaty at Easton.
Is nominated to go to England.

Feb. 1 . On a Committee to prepare a new Bill for
granting 100,000 £.

Feb. 3. Accepts the appointment to England.
Appointed Agent.

Feb. 7. On a Commee to answer a Message.

Feb. 12. On D° to D°.

i75i-i763l Benjamin Franklin 443

1756.

March 22. Govr agrees to pass the Bill for 100,000 £.
This was after B. F.'s Conference with
him and Ld Loudon.

1759-
Feb. 21. Proprietaries' message to the Assembly
representing Mr. F. as not a person of
Candour, &c.
His heads of Complaint.
Answer thereto by Paris.
. . .27. Supply . . . B . . . for 100,000 £
Taxing the P'y Estate passe . . .
[mutilated]
... by Gov . . . eny

. . . Return' . . . Philada . . .

1760.

Oct. 14. Retd for Philada.

Oct. 15. Continu'd Agent with R. Charles.

Oct. 18. Governor Hamilton refuses to certify the
Assembly's appointment of Franklin
and Charles as Agents, &c.
The Assembly order a Certificate from a
Notary and appoint a Committee to
consider the Govr's refusal, &c. And
order the Grant of the Crown to be

receiv'd by B. F. and lodg'd in

the Bank in several names.

Sept. 19. Bills ordered to be drawn on B. F. for the
amount of the Parliamentary Grant.

1762.
May 6. Several letters of different dates received
from him.
1762.

Sept. 21.

Oct. 15.

1763.
Jan. 10.
Jan. 12.
Jan. 14.
Jan. 18.
Jan. 21.
Jan. 28.
Feb. 8.
Feb. 19.

March 4.

March 29.
March 31.

Apr .

The Works of

[1763

D° . . . informing that he had taken his
passage, and left the affairs of the
Province with Mr. Jackson.

Return 'd again, as in all the preceding
years, a member from Philada.

In the House again, and on a Committee.

On another.

On another and another.

Engagement of B. F. and R. C. recited.

On a Committee to prepare a Bill.

On D° for another Bill and another.

On a Committee for another Bill.

Report on his Accounts and thanks

order 'd.
Balance of his Acct. order 'd to be paid —

^2214 10 o.
On a Committee for a Bill.
Thanks given him by the Speaker in . . .

form, and answer . . .
[Mutilated] On a Comm. . . . &c. to

ansr. . . . propose . . . Bill.

CCXXVI

TO MRS. GREENE *

Philadelphia, 23 January, 1763.

I received with great pleasure my dear friend's
favor of December 20th, as it informed me that you

1 Formerly Miss Catharine Ray, at the date married to Mr. Wm.
Greene, who was afterwards Governor of Rhode Island.

1763] Benjamin Franklin 445

and yours are all well. Mrs. Franklin admits of your
apology for dropping the correspondence with her,
and allows your reasons to be good ; but hopes, when
you have more leisure, it may be resumed. She joins
with me in congratulating you upon your present
happy situation. I thank you for your kind invita-
tion. I purpose a journey into New England in the
spring or summer coming. I shall not fail to pay my
respects to you and Mr. Greene, when I come your
way. Please to make my compliments acceptable to
him. I have had a most agreeable time of it in
Europe. I have in company with my son been in
most parts of England, Scotland, Flanders and Hol-
land; and generally have enjoyed a good share of
health. If you had asked the rest of your questions,
I could have more easily made this letter longer.
Let me have them in your next. I think I am not
much altered; at least my esteem and regard for
my Katy (if I may still be permitted to call her so)
is the same, and I believe will be unalterable, whilst
I am, &c, B. Franklin.

P. S. — My best respects to your good brother and
sister Ward. My daughter presents her compli-
ments. My son is not yet arrived.

CCXXVII

to

Philadelphia, 9 February, 1763.

Sir : — It is now six years, since, in obedience to the
order of the House, I undertook a voyage to England,
to take care of their affairs there.

446 The Works of [1763

Fifteen hundred pounds of the publick money was
at different times put into my hands, for which
I ought to account, and I was instructed to keep
accounts of the disbursements I sh [torn out] make
in the publick service.

But I soon found such accounts were in many
instances impracticable. For example, I took my
son with me, partly to assist me as a clerk and other-
ways in the publick service, and partly to improve
him by showing him the world. His services were
considerable, but so intermixed with private ser-
vices, as that I could not well attend to [sic]. I
made journies, partly for the health, and partly that
I might, by country visits to persons of influence,
have more convenient opportunities of discoursing
them on our publick affairs, the expense of which
journeys was not easily proportion 'd and separated.
And being myself honour 'd with visits from persons
of quality and distinction, I was obliged for the credit
of the province to live in a fashion and expense, suit-
able to the publick character I sustain 'd, and much
above what I should have done if I had been con-
sider'd merely as a private person : and this difference
of expense was not easy to distinguish, and charge in
my accounts. The long sickness and frequent re-
lapses I had the first and part of the second winter,
occasioned by a change of climate, were many ways
expensive to me, of which I could keep no acct. if
indeed I ought to have charg'd the province with
such expenses. The disbursement of the following
sums I have however accounts and receipts to
avouch, viz. [The rest wanting.]

1763] Benjamin Franklin 447

CCXXVIII

TO WILLIAM STRAHAN

Philadelphia, 23 February, 1763.

Dear Straney: — I have only time to write one
line by this conveyance, just to congratulate you on
the glorious peace you have made, the most advan-
tageous for the British nation, in my opinion, of any
your annals have recorded. The places you have
left or restor'd to the French, I look upon to be
so much in our power in case of a future war, as
to be so many hostages or pledges of their good
behaviour.

Love to Mrs. Strahan and your children. Billy
joins in every affectionate sentiment, with, dear
friend, Yours affectionately,

B. Franklin.

CCXXIX

CONGELATION OF QUICKSILVER — COLD PRODUCED BY
EVAPORATION T

Perth Amboy, 26 February, 1763.

The most remarkable discovery that has been made
within these three years is, that quicksilver is in real-
ity a melted metal, with this character only, that of
all others it requires the least heat to melt it. The
Academy of Sciences at Petersburg have found that
by dipping a mercurial thermometer into repeated

1 This is a fragment of a letter in the handwriting of Franklin, but it
is not known to whom it was written.

448 The Works of [1763

cooling mixtures, and so taking from the mercury the
heat that was in it, they have brought it down some
hundred degrees (the exact number I cannot remem-
ber) below the freezing point, when the mercury be-
came solid and would sink no longer, and then the
glass being broke it came out in the form of a silver
bullet adhering to a wire, which was the slender part
that had been in the tube. Upon trial it was found
malleable, and was hammered out to the bigness of a
half-crown, but soon after, on receiving a small de-
gree of warmth, it returned gradually to its fluid state
again. This experiment was repeated by several
members of that Academy two winters successively,
and an authentic account of it transmitted to our
Royal Society.

I suppose you have seen in the second volume of
the new Philosophical Essays of the Edinburgh So-
ciety an account of some experiments to produce cold
by evaporation, made by Dr. Cullen, who mentions
the like having been before made at Petersburg. I
think it is but lately that our European philosophers
have known or acknowledged any thing of such a
power in nature. But I find it has been long known
in the east. Bernier, in the account of his travels in
India, written above a hundred years since, mentions
the custom of travellers carrying their water in flasks
covered with wet wrappers, and hung to the pom-
mels of their saddles, so as that the wind might act
upon them, and so cool the water. I have also seen
a kind of jar for cooling water, made of potter's earth
glazed, and so porous that the water gradually oozed
through to the surface, supplying water just sufficient

1763] Benjamin Franklin 449

for a constant evaporation. I tried it, and found the
water within much cooler in a few hours. This jar
was brought from Egypt.

ccxxx

TO MISS MARY STEVENSON

Philadelphia, 25 March, 1763.

My Dear Polly : — Your pleasing favor of Novem-
ber nth is now before me. It found me, as you
supposed it would, happy with my American friends
and family about me; and it made me more happy
in showing me, that I am not yet forgotten by the
dear friends I left in England. And, indeed, why
should I fear they will ever forget me, when I feel so
strongly that I shall ever remember them?

I sympathize with you sincerely in your grief at
the separation from your old friend, Miss Pitt. The
reflection that she is going to be more happy, when
she leaves you, might comfort you, if the case were
likely to be so circumstanced ; but, when the country
and company she has been educated in, and those
she is removing to, are compared, one cannot possibly
expect it. I sympathize no less with you in your
joys. But it is not merely on your account that I
rejoice at the recovery of your dear Dolly's * health.
I love that dear good girl myself, and I love her other
friends. I am, therefore, made happy by what must
contribute so much to the happiness of them all.

1 Miss Dorothea Blount.

VOL. HI. — 29

450 The Works of [1763

Remember me to her, and to every one of that
worthy and amiable family, most affectionately.

Remember me in the same manner to your and my
good Dr. and Mrs. Hawkesworth. You have lately,
you tell me, had the pleasure of spending three days
with them at Mrs. Stanley's. It was a sweet society.
I, too, once partook of that same pleasure, and can
therefore feel what you must have felt. Remember
me also to Mr. and Mrs. Stanley, and to Miss Arlond.

Of all the enviable things England has, I envy it
most its people. Why should that petty Island,
which, compared to America, is but a stepping-stone
in a brook, scarce enough of it above water to keep
one's shoes dry; why, I say, should that little Island
enjoy, in almost every neighbourhood, more sensible,
virtuous, and elegant minds, than we can collect in
ranging a hundred leagues of our vast forests ? But
it is said the Arts delight to travel westward. You
have effectually defended us in this glorious war, and
in time you will improve us. After the first cares
for the necessaries of life are over, we shall come to
think of the embellishments. Already, some of our
young geniuses begin to lisp attempts at painting,
poetry, and music. We have a young painter now
studying at Rome. Some specimens of our poetry I
send you, which, if Dr. Hawkesworth 's fine taste can-
not approve, his good heart will at least excuse. The
manuscript piece is by a young friend of mine, and
was occasioned by the loss of one of his friends, who
lately made a voyage to Antigua to settle some
affairs, previous to an intended marriage with an
amiable young lady here, but unfortunately died

1763] Benjamin Franklin 45 J

there. I send it to you, because the author is a great
admirer of Mr. Stanley's musical compositions, and
has adapted this piece to an air in the sixth Concerto
of that gentleman, the sweetly solemn movement of
which he is quite in raptures with. He has attempted
to compose a recitativo for it, but, not being able to
satisfy himself in the bass, wishes I could get it sup-
plied. If Mr. Stanley would condescend to do that
for him, he would esteem it as one of the highest
honours, and it would make him excessively happy.
You will say that a recitativo can be but a poor speci-
men of our music. It is the best and all I have at
present, but you may see better hereafter.

I hope Mr. Ralph's affairs are mended since you
wrote. I know he had some expectations, when I
came away, from a hand that would help him. He
has merit, and one would think ought not to be so
unfortunate.

I do not wonder at the behaviour you mention of

Dr. S towards me, for I have long since known

him thoroughly. I made that man my enemy by
doing him too much kindness. It is the honestest
way of acquiring an enemy. And, since it is conven-
ient to have at least one enemy, who, by his readi-
ness to revile one on all occasions, may make one
careful of one's conduct, I shall keep him an enemy
for that purpose; and shall observe your good
mother's advice, never again to receive him as a
friend. She once admired the benevolent spirit
breathed in his sermons. She will now see the just-
ness of the lines your laureate Whitehead addressed
to his poets, and which I now address to her:

452 The Works of [1763

"Full many a peevish, envious, slanderous elf
Is, in his works, benevolence itself.
For all mankind, unknown, his bosom heaves;
He only injures those with whom he lives.
Read, then, the man; — does truth his actions guide,
Exempt from petulance, exempt from pride f
To social duties does his heart attend,
As son, as father, husband, brother, friend t
Do those, who know him, love him f If they do,
You've my permission, you may love him too."

Nothing can please me more, than to see your philo-
sophical improvements, when you have leisure to
communicate them to me ; I still owe you a long let-
ter on that subject, which I shall pay. I am vexed
with Mr. James, that he has been so dilatory in Mr.
Madison's Armonica. I was unlucky in both the
workmen that I permitted to undertake making those
instruments. The first was fanciful, and never could
work to the purpose, because he was ever conceiv-
ing some new improvement, that answered no end.
The other I doubt is absolutely idle. I have recom-
mended a number to him from hence, but must stop
my hand.

Adieu, my dear Polly, and believe me, as ever, with
the sincerest esteem and regard, your truly affection-
ate friend and humble servant,

B. Franklin.

P. S. — My love to Mrs. Tickell and Mrs. Rooke,
and to Pitty, when you write to her. Mrs. Franklin
and Sally desire to be affectionately remembered to
you. I find the printed poetry I intended to enclose
will be too bulky to send. I shall send it by a ship
that goes shortly from hence.

1763] Benjamin Franklin 453

CCXXXI

TO JONATHAN WILLIAMS 1

Philadelphia, 13 April, 1763.

Loving Kinsman: — You may remember that
about ten years since, when I was at Boston, you and
my brother sent directions here to attach on Grant's
right to some land here by virtue of a mortgage given
him by one Pitt. Nothing effectual could be done in
it at that time, their being a prior mortgage undis-
charged. That prior mortgage is now near expiring,
and Grant's will take place. Pitt's widow is desirous
of being enabled to sell the place, which cannot be
done without paying off Grant's mortgage. There-
fore, if your old demand against Grant still subsists,
you may empower me in any manner you think
proper to recover it.

Is Grant living? Or, if dead, are there any of his
representatives among you ? Inquire. Because here
is a person desirous of purchasing, who perhaps may
inquire them out and get a discharge from them be-
fore your claim is brought forward, unless the attach-
ment formerly made in your behalf is still good,
which I am inclined to think may be.

I am going in a few days to Virginia, but expect to
be back in three or four weeks. However, send
what you have to say on this subject to my son, at

1 Jonathan Williams married Grace Harris, a niece of Dr. Franklin's,
and was the father of Jonathan Williams, who acted as a commercial
agent for the United States in France during a large part of the Revo-
lution, and whose name often occurs in the course of this correspond-
ence. The son, after filling important stations as a colonel of engineers
and superintendent of the Military Academy at West Point, died May
20, 1815.
The Works of [1763

Burlington, who was formerly empowered by you,
and he will take the steps necessary, if I should not
be returned, I am your loving uncle,

B. Franklin.

CCXXXII

TO WILLIAM STRAHAN

Philadelphia, June 2, 1763.

Dear Friend : — I have just received your favour
of February 28th, being but lately returned home
from Virginia. Dr. Kelley, in his letter, appears the
same sensible, worthy, friendly man I ever found
him, and Smith, as usual, just the reverse. I have
done with him ; for I believe nobody here will prevail
with me to give him another meeting. I communi-
cated your postscript to B. Mecom, and received the
enclosed from him. I begin to fear things are going
wrong with him. I shall be at New York in a few
days, and will endeavour to secure you as far as it
may be in his power, and will write you from thence.
My love to good Mrs. Strahan and to your children.
I hope to live to see George a bishop. Sally is now
with her brother in the Jerseys. Mrs. Franklin joins
with me in best wishes, &c. I am, dear Sir,

Your most obedient and most hum. servt.,

B. Franklin.

I fear my letter to you per Captain Friend never
came to hand, as I hear he is taken. It was the ship
I came over in, the Carolina. I wrote pretty fully to
you and Mr. Stephenson, but kept no copies.

1763] Benjamin Franklin 455

CCXXXIII

TO MISS MARY STEVENSON

Woodbridge, New Jersey, io June, 1763.

I wrote to my dear friend's good mamma to-day,
and said I should hardly have time to write to you;
but finding a spare half hour I will indulge myself in
the pleasure of spending it with you. I have just re-
ceived your most agreeable epistle of March nth.
The ease, the smoothness, the purity of diction, and
delicacy of sentiment that always appear in your let-
ters never fail to delight me ; but the tender filial re-
gard you constantly express for your old friend is
particularly engaging. Continue, then, to make him
happy from time to time with that sweet intercourse,
and take in return all he can give you, his sincerest
wishes for you of every kind of felicity.

I hope that by the time this reaches you an ac-
count will arrive of your dear Pitty's safe landing in
America among her friends. Your Dolly, too, I
hope, has perfectly recovered her health, and then
nothing will remain to give you uneasiness or anxiety.
Heaven bless you, and believe me ever, my dear
child, your affectionate friend and humble servant,

B. Franklin.

CCXXXIV

TO WILLIAM STRAHAN

Woodbridge, New Jersey, io June, 1763.

Dear Straney: — I am here in my way to New
England, where I expect to be till towards the end of

456 The Works of [1763

summer. I have writ to you lately, and have no-
thing to add. 'T is against my conscience to put you
to the charge of a shilling for a letter that has nothing
in it to any purpose ; but as I have wrote to some of
your acquaintance by this opportunity, I was afraid
you would not forgive me if I did not write also to
you. This is what people get by not being always as
good-natured as they should be. I am glad, how-
ever that you have this fault; for a man without
faults is a hateful creature. He puts all his friends
out of countenance; but I love you exceedingly. I
am glad to hear that friend was dismissed and got
safe with his ship to England, for I think I wrote you
a long letter by him, and fear'd it was lost; tho' I
have forgot what was in it, and perhaps it was not
very material; but now you have it. Tell me
whether George is to be a Church or Presbyterian
parson. I know you are a Presbyterian yourself;
but then I think you have more sense than to stick
him into a priesthood that admits of no promotion.
If he was a dull lad it might not be amiss, but
George has parts, and ought to aim at a mitre. God
bless you, and farewell. If I write much more I
must use a cover, which will double the postage.
So I prudently cut short (thank me for it) with, Dear
Straney,
Your affectionate friend and hum. servant,

B. Franklin.

1763] Benjamin Franklin 457

ccxxxv

TO MRS DEBORAH FRANKLIN

New York, 16 June, 1763.

My Dear Child: — We left Woodbridge on Tues-
day morning and went to Elizabethtown, where I
found our children returned from the Falls, and
very well. The Corporation were to have a dinner
that day at the Point for their entertainment, and
prevailed on us to stay. There were all the princi-
pal people, and a great many ladies. After dinner
we set out, and got here before dark. We waited on
the governor and on General Amherst yesterday,
dined with Lord Stirling, went in the evening to my
old friend Mr. Kennedy's funeral, and are to dine
with the general to-day. Mr. Hughes and daughter
are well, and Betsy Holt. I have not yet seen B.
Mecom, but shall to-day. I am very well.

I purpose to take Sally, at all events, and write for
her to-day to be ready to go in the packet that sails
next Friday week. If there is no other suitable com-
pany, Mr. Parker will go with her and take care of
her. I am glad you sent some wax candles with the
things to Boston. I am now so used to them that
I cannot do well without them. You spent your
Sunday very well, but I think you should go oftener
to church. I approve of your opening all my Eng-
lish letters, as it must give you pleasure to see that
people who knew me there so long and so intimately
retain so sincere regard for me.

My love to Mr. Rhoads when you see him, and
desire he would send me an invoice of such locks,

458 The Works of [1763

hinges, and the like, as cannot be had at Philadelphia,
and will be necessary for my house, that I may send
for them. Let me know from time to time how it
goes on. Mr. Foxcroft and Mr. Parker join in com-
pliments to you and cousin Lizzy. Mr. F. prays

his mamma to forgive him, and he will be a bet-
ter boy. I am, my dear Debby, your affectionate

husband,

B. Franklin.

END OF VOLUME III.

i III

I i

Pill1!

II

ftp


===== Benjamin Franklin - Founders Online (complete) + Works of Benjamin Franklin (Sparks, 10 vols, PD) (vol. 4) =====
Source: https://archive.org/download/worksofbenjaminf04fran/worksofbenjaminf04fran_djvu.txt

THE
NEW YORK PUBLIC LIBRARY

The Amy Angell Collier Montague

and Gilbert H. Montague

Collection

SEAL HARBOR LIBRARY,

FEDERAL EDITION
Limited to 1,000 signed and numbered sets.

The Collector's Federal Edition of the Writings
of Benjamin Franklin is limited to six hundred
signed and numbered sets, of which this is

Number

We guarantee that no limited, numbered edition,
other than the Federal, shall be printed from these
plates.

The written number must correspond with the
perforated number at top of this page.

Benjamin Franklin

From an engraving by A. H. Ritchie, after the paintii
Charles N. < ..dun. tin

®fe

tfrk* of

ni*HfFi

:itk

m

(&xvtlve Jlulum^s

Jktoral (fMittm

The Works of

Benjamin Franklin

Including the Private as well as the
Official and Scientific Correspondence

Together with
The Unmutilated and Correct Version of the Autobiography-

Compiled and Edited
by

John Bigelow

" Strange that Uly9ses does a thousand things so well." — Iliad, B. II, 335

Volume IV

G. P. Putnam's Sons

New York and London

Cbe "Knickerbocker press
Ube "Rntcfterbocfter prces, "Hew t'otft

CONTENTS OF VOL. IV
PAGE

CCXXXVI. — To William Greene, July 19TH . 3
CCXXXVII. — To Mrs. Catherine Greene, August

ist 4

CCXXXVIIL— To Mrs. Catherine Greene, Sep-
tember 5TH ..... 5
CCXXXIX. — To William Strahan, September 22D 5
CCXL. — To Miss Stevenson, March 14TH . 6

CCXLI. — To William Strahan, March 30TH . 7
CCXLII. — To Mrs. Catherine Greene, April

15TH ...... 8

CCXLIII. — To William Strahan, May ist . 9

CCXLIV. — To Jonathan Williams, May 24TH . 11

CCXLV. — To George Whitefield, June 19TH . 12

CCXLVI. — To William Strahan, June 25TH . 13

CCXLVII. — To William Strahan, September

24TH ...... 15

CCXLVIII. — To Jonathan Williams, November

3d 17

Second mission to England.

CCXLIX. — To Sarah Franklin, November 8th . 18
Paternal advice — Attendance at church —
About leaving for England.

iv Contents of Volume IV

PAGE

CCL. — To Mrs. Deborah Franklin, Decem-
ber 9TH ...... 21

Arrival in England.

CCLI. — A Narrative of the Late Massacres
in Lancaster County of a Num-
ber of Indians, Friends of This
Province, by Persons Unknown,
with Some Observations on the
Same ...... 22

CCLII. — Cool Thoughts on the Present

Situation of our Public Affairs . 49

CCLIII. — Petition to the King for Changing
the Proprietary Government
of Pennsylvania into a Royal
Government .... 65

CCLIV. — Remarks on a Particular Militia
Bill Rejected by the Proprie-
tor's Deputy, or Governor, Sep-
tember 28th ..... 66

CCLV. — Preface to the Speech of Joseph
Galloway on the Subject of a
Petition to the King for Chang-
ing the Proprietary Government
of Pennsylvania to a Royal Gov-
ernment ..... 72

CCLVI.— Remarks on a Late Protest against
the Appointment of Mr. Franklin
as Agent for the Province of
Pennsylvania .... 118
CCLVII. — To Mrs. Deborah Franklin, Feb-
ruary 9TH 133

Contents of Volume IV v

PAGE

CCLVIII. — From Joseph Galloway, February

27th 134

Alarm produced by the news of the king's
rejection of the Assembly's petition.

CCLIX. — From Mrs. Deborah Franklin,

April 7TH ..... 137
Domestic news.
CCLX. — To the Editor of a Newspaper, May

20TH 140

Humorous account of " news writers " and
"news."

CCLXI. — To Lord Kames, June 2D . . . 143
On the harmony and melody of old Scotch

tunes.

CCLXII. — To Lord Kames, June 2D . . . 148
Franklin's voyage to England — Madeira
— Affairs in America.

CCLXIII. — To Mrs. Deborah Franklin, June

4TH 153

Domestic affairs.
CCLXIV. — To Peter Franklin .... 155
On the defects of modern music.
CCLXV. — To Hugh Roberts, July 7TH . . 161
Political adversaries — Hospital seal — Old
Junto.

CCLXVI. — To Charles Thomson, July iith . 162
Proprietary government in Philadelphia
— Stamp Act.

CCLXVII. — To Mrs. Deborah Franklin, July

13TH 164.
CCLXVIII. — Letter Concerning the Gratitude
of America, and the Probability
and Effects of a Union with
Great Britain, and Concerning
the Repeal or Suspension of the
Stamp Act, January 6th . . 166

vi Contents of Volume IV

PAGE

CCLXIX. — The Examination of Dr. Benjamin
Franklin in the British House
of Commons Relative to the Re-
peal of the Stamp Act . . . 171
CCLXX. — To Mrs. Deborah Franklin, Feb-
ruary 22D ..... 219

CCLXXI. — To Mrs. Deborah Franklin, Feb-
ruary 27TH ..... 220

CCLXXII. — To Hugh Roberts, February 27TH . 220
Stamp Act — Change of ministry.
CCLXXIIL— To Charles Thomson, February

27TH 222

Expected repeal of the Stamp Act.
CCLXXIV. — To Mrs. Deborah Franklin, April

6th 223

Repeal of the Stamp Act — Domestic
affairs.
CCLXXV. — To Thomas Ronayne, April 20TH . 225
On the electricity of fogs in Ireland.
CCLXXVI. — To Jonathan Williams, April 28th . 228
CCLXXVIL— To Cadwallader Evans, May 9TH . 229
CCLXXVIII. — Mode of Ascertaining whether
the Power, Giving a Shock to
those who Touch either the
Surinam Eel or the Torpedo, be
Electrical . ... 231

CCLXXIX.— To Mrs. Deborah Franklin, June

13TH 233

CCLXXX.— From William Franklin . . .237
Indian murders — Land riots in New York
— The " Firebrand" Otis — His triumph over
the New Jersey Assembly — Death of Peter
Franklin.

CCLXXXI.— To Mrs. Mary Franklin, August

26th 239

The death of his brother — Provision for
his sister.

Contents of Volume IV vii

PAGE

CCLXXXII. — To Charles Thomson, September

27TH ...... 240

Repeal of the Stamp Act.
CCLXXXIII. — To Mrs. Deborah Franklin, Octo-
ber iith ..... 241

Descendants from his grandfather in
England.
CCLXXXIV. — Remarks on a Plan for the Future

Management of Indian Affairs . 243
CCLXXXV. — Hints for a Reply to the Protests
of Certain Members of the House
of Lords against the Repeal of
the Stamp Act .... 248

CCLXXXVI. — Observations on Passages in "A
Letter from a Merchant in Lon-
don to His Nephew in North
America" ..... 252

CCLXXXVII. — Observations on Passages in a Pam-
phlet Entitled "Good Humor, or
Away with the Colonies" . . 256
CCLXXXVIII. — From William Franklin, November

13TH 275

Trouble with Hall, Franklin's former part-
ner— New printing establishment projected
in Franklin's interest.
CCLXXXIX— To Lord Kames, April iith . . 279

Strained relations of the Colonies with the
mother country — Injudicious legislation —
Prospects of America.
CCXC. — To Cadwallader Evans, May 5TH . 288

Medical library at the hospital — Lord
Chatham — Manufactures.

CCXCI. — To Joseph Galloway, June 13TH . . 289

Paper money — Mr. Grenville's revenue
scheme — Mr. Townshend — Prejudices against
the colonies — Salt duty — Bill for suspending
Legislatures of New York and Georgia.

viii Contents of Volume IV

PAGE

CCXCII. — To Miss Stevenson, June 17TH : . 296

Visited by a muse.

CCXCIII. — To Mrs. Deborah Franklin, June 22D 297
Economies — The proposed marriage of their
daughter.

CCXCIV. — Protective Duties on Imports and

how they Work, July 7TH . . 299

CCXCV. — To Samuel Franklin, July 17TH . 300

Kindred in England.

CCXCVI. — To Mrs. Deborah Franklin, August

5th 301

CCXCVII. — To George Crogan, August 5TH . 303

Are elephants indigenous to America ?

CCXCVIII. — To Joseph Galloway, August 8th . 304
Taxing America a popular measure.

CCXCIX. — To William Franklin, August 28th . 309
Lord Shelburne and General Conway on
American affairs — Soame Jenyns — The French
Ambassador in London.

CCC. — To Miss Stevenson, September 14.TH . 311
Description of his journey to Paris — Ver-
sailles— The French.

CCCI. — Of Lightning and the Methods (now
Used in America) op Securing
Buildings and Persons from its
Mischievous Effects, September . 319

CCCIL — On Smuggling and its Various Spe-
cies, November 24TH . . . 324

CCCIII. — To William Franklin, November

25TH 33°

Gov. Bernard — Lords Shelburne and Clare
on American affairs — Dean Tucker — Abuse of
ministers.

CCCIV. — To Joseph Galloway, December ist . 334
Paper money in Pennsylvania — Mr. Gren-
ville — The Duke of Bedford.

Contents of Volume IV ix

PAGB

CCCV. — To John Ross, December 13TH . . 336
On admitting American representatives into
Parliament.

CCCVI. — To William Franklin, December 19TH 338
Boston resolutions — Mr. Grenville and Mr.
Onslow.

CCCVII. — From Thomas Pownall — Dr. Frank-
lin's Answer ..... 341
On sharing the rights and privileges of Great
Britain with America.

CCCVIII. — On the Price of Corn and the Man-
agement of the Poor . . . 343

CCCIX. — Remarks on Judge Foster's Argu-
ment in Favor of the Rights of Im-
pressing Seamen, December . . 349
CCCX. — Vindication of the Provincial

Paper-Money System, December 358
CCCXI. — To William Franklin, January 9TH . 374
Change of ministers — The Boston resolu-
tions.

CCCXII. — To Joseph Galloway, January 9TH . 375

CCCXIII. — Causes of the American Discontents

before 1768, January 7TH . . 377

CCCXIV. — To M. Dalibard, January 31ST . . 390

CCCXV. — To Mrs. Deborah Franklin, Febru-
ary 13TH ....... 392

CCCXVI. — To Joseph Galloway, February 17TH 394
Restraining legal-tender paper money — Lord
Hillsborough — Change of government in
Pennsylvania — Bribery in borough elections
— Mr. Beckford — Mr. Thurlow.

x Contents of Volume IV

PAGE

CCCXVII. — To Cadwallader Evans, February

20TH 398

The Colica Pictonum — Use of lead in distil-
leries.

CCCXVIII. — To Thomas Wharton, February 20TH 400
General Conway — Proceedings in Boston.

CCCXIX. — To Lord Kames, February 28th . 402

On chimneys.

CCCXX. — From Joseph Galloway,March ioth . 406
Affairs in Pennsylvania.

CCCXXI. — To William Franklin, March 13TH . 408
Lord Hillsborough's plan for the defence of
America — The Farmer's Letters — Power of
Parliament over Colonies — Manufactures in
Colonies — Elections in England.

CCCXXII. — To the Committee of Correspondence

in Pennsylvania, March 13TH . 414

CCCXXIIL— Walpole's Grant, March 13TH . . 416

CCCXXIV. — To Joseph Galloway, March 13TH . 425
Lord Hillsborough — Dissolution of Parlia-
ment— Bribery in elections.

CCCXXV. — To the Committee of Correspond-
ence in Pennsylvania, April i6th . 427
Instructions from the Assembly — Sugges-
tions for emitting paper money.

CCCXXVI. — To William Franklin, April i6th . 428
Elections in the new Parliament — Wilkes —
Riots, mobs, and illuminations.

CCCXXVII. — On the Laboring Poor, April . . 430

CCCXXVIII. — Some Good Whig Principles, April . 435

CCCXXIX. — Preface to the "Letters from a
Farmer in Pennsylvania," May
8th 437

Contents of Volume IV xi

PAGE

CCCXXX. — To Sir John Pringle, May ioth . 439

On the difference of navigation in shoal and
deep water.

CCCXXXL — To John Ross, May 14TH .
CCCXXXII. — To Joseph Galloway, May 14TH . 444

CCCXXXIII. — To Oliver Neave .... 446

The art of swimming.

CORRESPONDENCE

AND

MISCELLANEOUS WRITINGS

VOL. tV.— I.

CORRESPONDENCE

AND

MISCELLANEOUS WRITINGS

CCXXXVI

TO WILLIAM GREENE, WARWIC, RHODE ISLAND

Providence, 19 July, 1763.

Dear Sir: — From the very hospitable and kind
treatment we met at your house, I must think it
will be agreeable to you to hear, that your guests got
well in before the rain. We hope that you and Mrs.
Greene were likewise safe at home before night, and
found all well. We all join in the most cordial thanks
and best wishes, and shall be glad on every occasion
to hear of the welfare of you and yours. I beg you
will present our compliments to your good neighbour,
Captain Fry, and tell him we shall always retain a
grateful remembrance of his civilities.

The soreness in my breast seems to diminish hourly.
To rest and temperance I ascribe it chiefly, though
the bleeding had doubtless some share in the effect.
We purpose setting out to go to Wrentham this
afternoon, in order to make an easy day's journey
4 The Works of [1763

into Boston to-morrow. Present our respects to Mrs.
Ray, and believe me, with much esteem, dear Sir,
your obliged and most obedient, humble servant,

B. Franklin.

CCXXXVII

TO MRS. CATHERINE GREENE

Boston, i August, 1763.

Dear Friend: — I ought to acquaint you that I
feel myself growing daily firmer and freer from the
effects of my fall, and hope a few days more will
make me quite forget it. I shall, however, never
forget the kindness I met with at your house on that
occasion.

Make my compliments acceptable to your Mr.
Greene, and let him know that I acknowledge the
receipt of his obliging letter, and thank him for it.
It gave me great pleasure to hear you got home
before the rain. My compliments, too, to Mr. Mer-
chant and Miss Ward, if they are still with you ; and
kiss the ladies for me. Sally says, " And for me too."
She adds her best respects to Mr. Greene and you,
and that she could have spent a week with you with
great pleasure, if I had not hurried her away.

My brother is returned to Rhode Island. Sister
Mecom thanks you for your kind remembrance of her,
and presents her respects. With perfect esteem and
regard I am, dear Katy (I can't yet alter my style to
" Madam "), your affectionate friend,

B. Franklin.

1763] Benjamin Franklin 5

CCXXXVIII

TO MRS. CATHERINE GREENE

Boston, 5 September, 1763.

Dear Friend: — On my returning hither from
Portsmouth, I find your obliging favor of the 18th
past, for which I thank you. I am almost ashamed
to tell you, that I have had another fall, and put my
shoulder out. It is well reduced again, but is still
affected with constant, though not very acute pain.
I am not yet able to travel rough roads, and must lie
by awhile, as I can neither hold reins nor whip with
my right hand till it grows stronger.

Do you think, after this, that even your kindest
invitations and Mr. Greene's can prevail with me to
venture myself again on such roads? And yet it
would be a great pleasure to me to see you and yours
once more. Sally and my sister Mecom thank you
for your remembrance of them, and present their
affectionate regards. My best respects to good Mr.
Greene, Mrs. Ray, and love to your little ones. I
am glad to hear they are well, and that your Celia
goes alone. I am, dear friend, yours affectionately.

B. Franklin.1

CCXXXIX

TO WILLIAM STRAHAN

Boston, 22 September, 1763.

Dear Friend : — I write in pain with an arm lately
dislocated, so can only acknowledge the receipt of

1 He returned to Philadelphia, with his daughter, from this tour to
New England, on the 5th of November.

6 The Works of [1764

your favours of May 3 and 10, and thank you for

the intelligence they contain concerning your publick

affairs. I am now 400 miles from home, but hope

to be there again in about three weeks. The Indian

war upon our Western settlements was undoubtedly

stirr'd up by the French on the Mississippi, before they

had heard of the peace between the two nations ; and

will probably cease when we are in possession of what

is there ceded to us. My respects to Mrs. Strahan,

and love to your children. I am, dear friend, very

affectionately yours,

B. Franklin.

CCXL

TO MISS MARY STEVENSON

Philadelphia, 14 March, 1764.

Dear Polly: — I have received your kind letters
of August 30th and November 16th. Please to
return my thanks, with those of my friend, to Mr.
Stanley for his favor in the music, which gives great
satisfaction. I am glad to hear of the welfare of the
Blount family, and the addition it has lately re-
ceived, and particularly that your Dolly's health is
mended. Present my best respects to them and to
the good Dr. and Mrs. Hawkesworth when you see
them.

I believe you were right in dissuading your good
mother from coming hither. The proposal was a
hasty thought of mine, in which I considered only
some profit she might make by the adventure and

1764] Benjamin Franklin 7

the pleasure to me and my family from the visit, but
forgot poor Polly and what her feelings must be on
the occasion, and perhaps did not sufficiently reflect
that the inconveniences of such a voyage to a person
of her years and sex must be more than the advan-
tages could compensate.

I am sincerely concerned to hear of Mrs. Rooke's
long-continued affliction with that cruel gout. My
best wishes attend her and good Mrs. Tickell. Let
me hear from you as often as you can afford it. You
can scarce conceive the pleasure your letters give me.
Blessings on his soul that first invented writing, with-
out which I should at this distance be as effectually
cut off from my friends in England as the dead are
from the living. But I write so little that I can have
no claim to much from you. Business, publick and
private, devours all my time. I must return to Eng-
land for repose. With such thoughts I flatter myself,
and need some kind friend to put me often in mind
that old trees cannot safely be transplanted.

Adieu, my amiable friend, and believe me ever
yours most affectionately,

B. Franklin.

CCXLI

TO WILLIAM STRAHAN

Philadelphia, 30 March, 1764.

Dear Friend: — I begin to think it long since I
had the pleasure of hearing from you.

Enclosed is one of our last Gazettes, in which you

8 The Works of [1764

will see that our dissensions are broke out again,
more violently than ever. Such a necklace of Re-
solves! and all nemine contradicente, I believe you
have seldom seen. If you can find room for them
and our messages in the Chronicle (but perhaps 'tis
too much to ask), I should be glad to have them
there ; as it may prepare the minds of those in power
for an application that I believe will shortly be made
from this Province to the crown, to take the govern-
ment into its own hands. They talk of sending me
over with it, but it will be too soon for me. At least
I think so at present. Adieu, my dear Friend, and
believe me ever yours affectionately,

B. Franklin.
P. S. — My love to my young Wife, and to Mrs.
Strahan, Rachey, Billy, &c, &c. In your next tell
me how you all do, and don't oblige me to come and
see before I am quite ready.

CCXLII

TO MRS. CATHERINE GREENE

Philadelphia, 15 April, 1764.

Dear Friend: — I have before me your most ac-
ceptable favor of December 24th. Publick business
and our publick confusions have so taken up my at-
tention that I suspect I did not answer it when I re-
ceived it, but am really not certain; so, to make sure,
I write this line to acknowledge the receiving of it,
and to thank you for it. I condole with you on the
death of the good old lady, your mother. Separa-

1764] Benjamin Franklin 9

tions of this kind from those we love are grievous;
but it is the will of God that such should be the
nature of things in this world. All that ever were
born are either dead or must die. It becomes us to
submit and to comfort ourselves with the hope of a
better life and more happy meeting hereafter.

Sally kept to her horse the greatest part of the
journey, and was much pleased with the tour. She
often remembers, with pleasure and gratitude, the
kindnesses she met with and received from our
friends everywhere, and particularly at your house.
She talks of writing by this post, and my dame sends
her love to you, and thanks for the care you took of
her old man, but, having bad spectacles, cannot write
at present.

Mr. Kent's compliment is a very extraordinary one,
as he was obliged to kill himself and two others in
order to make it; but, being killed in imagination
only, they and he are all yet alive and well, thanks to
God, and I hope will continue so as long as, dear
Katy, your affectionate friend, B. Franklin.

P. S. — My best respects to Mrs. Greene, and love
to " the little dear creatures." I believe the instruc-
tions relating to the post-office have been sent to Mr.
Rufus Greene.

CCXLIII.

TO WILLIAM STRAHAN

Philadelphia, i May, 1764.

Dear Straney: — I received your favour of De-
cember 20th. You cannot conceive the satisfaction

io The Works of [1764

and pleasure you give your friends here by your polit-
ical letters. Your accounts are so clear, circumstan-
tial, and complete, that tho' there is nothing too
much, nothing is wanting to give us, as I imagine, a
more perfect knowledge of your publick affairs than
most people have that live among you. The charac-
ters of your speakers and actors are so admirably
sketch 'd, and their views so plainly opened, that we
see and know everybody ; they all become of our ac-
quaintance. So excellent a manner of writing seems
to me a superfluous gift to a mere printer. If you
do not commence author for the benefit of man-
kind, you will certainly be found guilty hereafter of
burying your talent. It is true that it will puzzle the
Devil himself to find any thing else to accuse you of,
but remember he may make a great deal of that. If
I were king (which may God in mercy to us all pre-
vent) I should certainly make you the historiographer
of my reign. There could be but one objection — I
suspect you might be a little partial in my favour.
But your other qualifications for an historian be-
ing duly considered, I believe we might get over
that.

Our petty publick affairs here are in the greatest
confusion, and will never, in my opinion, be com-
posed, while the Proprietary Government subsists. I
have wrote a little piece (which I send enclos'd) to
persuade a change. People talk of sending me to
England to negotiate it, but I grow very indolent.
Bustling is for younger men.

Mrs. Franklin, Sally, and my son and daughter of
the Jerseys, with whom I lately spent a week, all join

1764] Benjamin Franklin 11

in best wishes of prosperity to you and all yours,
with, dear sir,

Your affectionate humble servant,

B. Franklin.
P. S. — I will do every thing in my power to recom-
mend the work Mr. Griffith mentions, having the
same sentiments of it that you express. But I con-
ceive many more of them come to America than he
imagines. Our booksellers, perhaps, write for but few,
but the reason is that a multitude of our people trade
more or less to London; and all that are bookishly
dispos'd receive the reviews singly from their corre-
spondents as they come out.

CCXLIV

TO JONATHAN WILLIAMS

Philadelphia, 24 May, 1764.

Dear Kinsman: — The bearer is the Rev. Mr.
Rothenbuler, minister of a new Calvinist German
Church lately erected in this city. The congregation
is but poor at present, being many of them new
comers, and (like other builders) deceived in their
previous calculations, they have distressed them-
selves by the expense of their building ; but, as they
are an industrious, sober people, they will be able in
time to afford that assistance to others, which they
now humbly crave for themselves.

His business in Boston is to petition the generous
and charitable among his Presbyterian brethren for

12 The Works of [1764

their kind benefactions. As he will be a stranger in
New England, and I know you are ready to do every
good work, I take the freedom to recommend him
and his business to you for your friendly advice and
countenance. The civilities you show him shall be
acknowledged as done to your affectionate uncle,

B. Franklin.

CCXLV

TO GEORGE WHITEFIELD

Philadelphia, 19 June, 1764.

Dear Friend: — I received your favors of the 21st
past and of the 3d instant, and immediately sent the
enclosed as directed.

Your frequently repeated wishes for my eternal as
well as my temporal happiness are very obliging, and
I can only thank you for them and offer you mine in
return. I have myself no doubt, that I shall enjoy
as much of both as is proper for me. That Being,
who gave me existence, and through almost three-
score years has been continually, showering his favors
upon me, whose very chastisements have been bless-
ings to me ; can I doubt that he loves me ? And if he
loves me, can I doubt that he will go on to take care
of me, not only here but hereafter? This to some
may seem presumption; to me it appears the best
grounded hope; hope of the future built on experi-
ence of the past.

By the accounts I have of your late labors, I con-
clude your health is mended by your journey, which

i764] Benjamin Franklin 13

gives me pleasure. Mrs. Franklin presents her cor-
dial respects, with, dear Sir, your affectionate humble

servant,

B. Franklin.

P. S. — We hope you will not be deterred from vis-
iting your friends here, by the bugbear Boston ac-
count of the unhealthiness of Philadelphia.

CCXLVI

TO WILLIAM STRAHAN

Philadelphia, 25 June, 1764.

Dear Sir: — I wrote a few lines to you via Liver-
pool; but they were too late for the ship, and now
accompany this.

I gave Mr. Parker a power of attorney to act for
you and myself with respect to Mecom's affairs, who
has under oath surrendered all he possessed into his
hands, to be divided proportionately between us and
his other creditors, which are chiefly Rivington and
Fletcher and Hamilton and Balfour. The effects
consist of a printing press, some tolerably good letter,
and some books and stationery. He has rendered
particular and exact accounts, but his all will fall
vastly short of payment. I suppose it will scarce
amount to four shillings in the pound. Parker thinks
him honest, and has let him have a small printing
house at New Haven, in Connecticut, where he is
now at work; but having a wife and a number of
small children, I doubt it will be long ere he gets any

14 The Works of [1764

thing beforehand so as to lessen much of his old
debt. I think it will be well for each of his creditors
to take again what remains unsold of their respective
goods, of which there are separate accounts, and join
in impowering Mr. Parker to sell the remainder, to
be divided among us. Tho' on second thoughts, per-
haps the fairest way is to sell and divide the whole.
You can obtain their sentiments, and send me your
own. As to what Parker I owes you, it is very safe,
and you must have interest.

I hope the bath will fully re-establish good Mrs.
Strahan's health. I enjoy the pleasure with which
you speak of your children. God has been very
good to you, from whence I think you may be as-
sured that he loves you, and that he will take at least
as good care of your future happiness as he has done
of your present. What assurance of the future can
be better founded than that which is built on experi-
ence of the past? Thank me for giving you this
hint, by the help of which you may die as cheerfully
as you live. If you had Christian faith, quantum suff.
this might not be necessary; but as matters are it
may be of use.

Your political letters are oracles here. I beseech
you to continue them. With unfeigned esteem, I
am, as ever, dear friend, yours affectionately,

B. Franklin.

1 This Parker in New York and Franklin in Philadelphia, were, at
the date of this letter, the only two printers of much account in the
colonies. Cortland Parker, Esq., the eminent jurist of New Jersey, in-
herits the blood of both.

1764] Benjamin Franklin 15

CCXLVII

TO WILLIAM STRAHAN

Philadelphia, 24 September, 1764.

Dear Mr. Strahan: — I wrote to you of the first
instant, and sent you a bill for ^13, and a little list
of books to be bought with it. But as Mr. Becket
has since sent them to me, I hope this will come time
enough to countermand that order. The money, if
you have received it, may be paid to Mr. Stephen-
son, to whom we have wrote for sundry things.

I thank you for inserting the messages and resolu-
tions entire. I believe it has had a good effect ; for a
friend writes me that it is astonishing with what suc-
cess it was propagated in London by the Proprie-
taries; that the resolutions were the most indecent
and undutiful to the Crown, &c, so that when he saw
them, having before heard those reports, he could not
believe they were the same.

I was always unwilling to give a copy of the chap-
ter for fear it would be printed, and by that means I
should be deprived of the pleasure I often had in
amusing people with it. I could not, however, refuse
it to two of the best men in the world, Lord Karnes
and Mr. Small, and should not to the third if he had
not been a printer. But you have overpaid me for the
loss of that pleasure by the kind things you have so
handsomely said of your friend in the introduction.

You tell me that the value I set on your political
letters is a strong proof that my judgment is on the
decline. People seldom have friends kind enough to
tell them that disagreeable truth, however useful it

1 6 The Works of [1764

might be to know it ; and indeed I learn more from
what you say than you intended I should; for it
convinces me that you had observed the decline for
some time past in other instances, as 't is very un-
likely you should see it first in my good opinion of
your writings; but you have kept the observation
to yourself till you had an opportunity of hinting it to
me kindly under the guise of modesty in regard to
your own performances. I will confess to you an-
other circumstance that must confirm your judgment
of me, which is that I have of late fancy 'd myself to
write better than ever I did ; and, farther, that when
any thing of mine is abridged in the papers or maga-
zines, I conceit that the abridger has left out the
very best and brightest parts. These, my friend, are
much stronger proofs, and put me in mind of Gil
Bias's patron, the homily-maker.

I rejoice to hear that Mrs. Strahan is recovering;
that your family in general is well, and that my little
woman in particular is so, and has not forgot our ten-
der connection. The enlarging of your house and
the coach-house and stables you mention make me
think of living with you when I come ; for I love ease
more than ever, and by daily using your horses I can
be of service to you and them by preventing their
growing too fat and becoming restif .

Mrs. Franklin and Sally join in best wishes for
you and all yours, with your affectionate

B. Franklin.

Dear Sir: — I wrote a few lines to you by this op-
portunity, but omitted desiring you to call on Mr.
Jackson of the Temple and pay him for the copying

1764] Benjamin Franklin 17

a manuscript he sent me which he paid the stationer
for doing on my account. Yours affectionately,

B. Franklin.

CCXLVIII

TO JONATHAN WILLIAMS

Philadelphia, 3 November, 1764.

Loving Kinsman: — The case of the Armonica
came home to-night, and the spindle, with all the
rest of the work, seems well done. But on further
consideration I think it is not worth while to take
one of them to London, to be filled with glasses, as
we intended. It will be better to send you one com-
plete from thence, made under my direction, which I
will take care shall be good. The glasses here will
serve for these cases when I come back, if it please
God that I live to return, and some friends will be
glad of them.

Enclosed I send you that impostor's letter. Per-
haps he may be found by his handwriting.

We sail on Wednesday. The merchants here in
two hours subscribed eleven hundred pounds, to be
lent the publick for the charges of my voyage, &c. I
shall take with me but part of it, five hundred pounds
sterling. Any sum is to be had that I may want.
My love to all. Adieu. Yours affectionately,

B. Franklin.1

1 Dr. Franklin was appointed to this second mission to England by
the Assembly of Pennsylvania, October 26, 1764. As the Assembly
had not then in the treasury any money that could be appropriated
for this purpose, they passed a resolve that the expense attending his

VOL. IV.— 2.

18 The Works of [1764

CCXLIX

TO SARAH FRANKLIN

Reedy Island, 7 at night, 8 November, 1764.

My Dear Sally: — We got down here at sunset,
having taken in more live stock at Newcastle, with
some other things we wanted. Our good friends,
Mr. Galloway, Mr. Wharton and Mr. James, came
with me in the ship from Chester to Newcastle, and
went ashore there. It was kind to favor me with
their good company as far as they could. The affec-
tionate leave taken of me by so many friends at
Chester was very endearing. God bless them and
all Pennsylvania.

My dear child, the natural prudence and goodness
of heart God has blessed you with makes it less neces-
sary for me to be particular in giving you advice. I
shall therefore only say that the more attentively du-
tiful and tender you are towards your good mamma,
the more you will recommend yourself to me. But
why should I mention me when you have a so much
higher promise in the commandments that such
conduct will recommend you to the favor of God.
You know I have many enemies, all indeed on the
publick account (for I cannot recollect that I have in
a private capacity given just cause of offence to any

voyage and the execution of the trust reposed in him should be pro-
vided for in the next bill prepared by the House for raising money to
defray the public debts. On the strength of this pledge, the money
was loaned by the merchants, although a party had made a consider-
able opposition to the appointment of an agent who was known to be
hostile to the Proprietaries, and had been active in promoting petitions
for a change of the Pennsylvania government.

1764] Benjamin Franklin 19

one whatever) , yet they are enemies, and very bitter
ones, and you must expect their enmity will extend
in some degree to you, so that your slightest indis-
cretions will be magnified into crimes in order the
more sensibly to wound and afflict me. It is there-
fore the more necessary for you to be extremely cir-
cumspect in all your behaviour, that no advantage
may be given to their malevolence.1

1 The fury of partisanship was at its height in Pennsylvania at this
time. And no one felt the effects of it more than Franklin. For an
intelligent apprehension of the questions which divided the people see
the Doctor's tract entitled Cool Thoughts; and also his Preface to
Galloway's Speech, and Remarks on a Late Protest. John Dickinson,
in the Assembly, denounced his selection as agent of the province as
the most obnoxious to his country that could have been made. "The
gentleman proposed," he said, "has been called 'a great luminary of
the learned world. ' I acknowledge his abilities. Far be it from me to
detract from the merit I admire. Let him still shine; but without
wrapping his country in flames."

Even the aid of the muses was invoked by the opposition. The fol-
lowing lines, which owe their existence to the dissensions between the
popular and the proprietary portion, are believed to have been written
by Hannah Griffiths, of Philadelphia:

" Inscription on a curious Stove in the form of an Urn, contrived in such
a Manner as to make the Flame descend instead of rising from the
Fire. Invented by Dr. Franklin.

" Like a Newton sublimely he soared
To a summit before unattained,
New regions of science explored,
And the palm of philosophy gained.

" With a spark which he caught from the skies,
He displayed an unparalleled wonder,
For we saw with delight and surprise

That his rod could defend us from thunder.

" Oh! had he been wise to pursue

The track for his talent designed,
What a tribute of praise had been due
To the teacher and friend of mankind.

" But to covet political fame

Was in him a degrading ambition,

20 The Works of [1764

Go constantly to church, whoever preaches. The
act of devotion in the Common Prayer Book is your
principal business there, and if properly attended to
will do more toward amending the heart than ser-
mons generally can do. For they were composed by
men of much greater piety and wisdom than our com-
mon composers of sermons can pretend to be, and
therefore I wish you would never miss the prayer
days; yet I do not mean you should despise ser-
mons, even of the preachers you dislike, for the dis-
course is often much better than a man, as sweet
and clear waters come through very dirty earth. I
am the more particular on this head, as you seemed
to express a little before I came away some inclina-
tion to leave our church, which I would not have you
do.

For the rest, I would only recommend to you in
my absence to acquire those useful accomplishments,
arithmetic and book-keeping. This you might do
with ease if you would resolve not to see company on
the hours you set apart for those studies.

We expect to be at sea to-morrow if this wind
holds, after which I shall have no opportunity of

For a spark which from Lucifer came,
Had kindled the blaze of sedition.

" Let candor then write on his urn:
' Here lies the renowned inventor,
Whose flame to the skies ought to burn,
But inverted descends to the centre.'"

The following note is appended to this poem in the Franklin collec-
tion:

"Dr. Benjamin Franklin invented the Empyreal Stove for inverting
or turning the smoke downwards. When they were first offered to
the public, it is said, a gentleman wrote the above lines, and attached
them to one of these inverted stoves."

1764] Benjamin Franklin 21

writing to you till I arrive (if it please God I do ar-
rive) in England. I pray that his blessing may at-
tend you, which is worth more than a thousand of
mine, though they are never wanting. Give my love
to your brother and sister,1 as I cannot write to them,
and remember me affectionately to the young ladies,
your friends, and to our good neighbors. I am, my
dear child, your affectionate father,

B. Franklin.

CCL

TO MRS. DEBORAH FRANKLIN

Saint Helen's Road, Isle of Wight,
5 o'clock, p.m., 9 December, 1764.

My Dear Debby: — This line is just to let you
know that we have this moment come to an anchor
here, and that I am going ashore at Portsmouth, and
hope to be in London on Tuesday morning. No
father could have been tenderer to a child than Cap-
tain Robinson has been to me, for which I am great-
ly obliged to Messrs. James and Drinker; but we have
had terrible weather, and I have often been thankful
that our dear Sally was not with me. Tell our friends
that dined with us on the turtle, that the kind prayer
they then put up for thirty days' fair wind to me was
favorably heard and answered, we being just thirty
days from land to land.

I am, thanks to God, very well and hearty. John

1 William Franklin, Governor of New Jersey, and his wife.

22 The Works of [1764

has behaved well to me, and so has everybody on
board. I thank all my friends for their favors, which
contributed so much to the comfort of my voyage.
I have not time to name names. You know whom I
love and honor. Say all the proper things for me to
everybody. Love to our children, and to my dear
brother and sister. I am, dear Debby, your ever lov-
ing husband, B. Franklin.1

CCLI

A

NARRATIVE

OF THE LATE MASSACRES, IN LANCASTER COUNTY, OF A NUMBER
OF INDIANS, FRIENDS OF THIS PROVINCE, BY PERSONS
UNKOWN. WITH SOME OBSERVATIONS ON THE SAME.

These Indians were the remains of a tribe of the
Six Nations, settled at Conestogo, and thence called
Conestogo Indians. On the first arrival of the Eng-
lish in Pennsylvania, messengers from this tribe came
to welcome them, with presents of venison, corn, and
skins; and the whole tribe entered into a treaty of
friendship with the first proprietor, William Penn,
which was to last " as long as the sun should shine,
or the waters run in the rivers."

This treaty has been since frequently renewed, and
the chain brightened, as they express it, from time to
time. It has never been violated, on their part or

1 Franklin reached London in the evening of the i oth of December,
and went immediately to his old lodgings in Craven Street.

1764] Benjamin Franklin 23

ours, till now. As their lands by degrees were mostly
purchased, and the settlements of the white people
began to surround them, the proprietor assigned
them lands on the manor of Conestogo, which they
might not part with; there they have lived many
years in friendship with their white neighbours,
who loved them for their peaceable inoffensive
behaviour.

It has always been observed that Indians settled
in the neighbourhood of white people do not increase,
but diminish continually. This tribe accordingly
went on diminishing, till there remained in their town
on the manor but twenty persons, viz. : seven men,
five women, and eight children, boys and girls.

Of these, Shehaes was a very old man, having as-
sisted at the second treaty held with them, by Mr.
Penn, in 170 1, and ever since continued a faithful and
affectionate friend to the English. He is said to
have been an exceeding good man, considering his
education, being naturally of a most kind, benevolent
temper.

Peggy was Shehaes 's daughter; she worked for
her aged father, continuing to live with him, though
married, and attended him with filial duty and
tenderness.

John was another good old man; his son Harry
helped to support him.

George and Will Soc were two brothers, both
young men.

John Smith, a valuable young man of the Cayuga
nation, who became acquainted with Peggy, She-
haes 's daughter, some few years since, married, and

24 The Works of [1764

settled in that family. They had one child, about
three years old.

Betty, a harmless old woman; and her son Peter,
a likely young lad.

Sally, whose Indian name was Wyanjoy, a woman
much esteemed by all that knew her, for her prudent
and good behaviour in some very trying situations of
life. She was a truly good and amiable woman, had
no children of her own ; but, a distant relation dying,
she had taken a child of that relation's, to bring up as
her own, and performed towards it all the duties of an
affectionate parent.

The reader will observe that many of the names
are English. It is common with the Indians, that
have an affection for the English, to give themselves
and their children the names of such English persons
as they particularly esteem.

This little society continued the custom they had
begun, when more numerous, of addressing every new
governor, and every descendant of the first proprie-
tor, welcoming him to the province, assuring him of
their fidelity, and praying a continuance of that favor
and protection they had hitherto experienced. They
had accordingly sent up an address of this kind to our
present governor, on his arrival; but the same was
scarce delivered when the unfortunate catastrophe
happened, which we are about to relate.

On Wednesday, the 14th of December, 1763, fifty-
seven men from some of our frontier townships, who
had projected the destruction of this little com-
monwealth, came, all well mounted, and armed with
fire-locks, hangers, and hatchets, having travelled

1764] Benjamin Franklin 25

through the country in the night, to Conestogo manor.
There they surrounded the small village of Indian
huts, and just at break of day broke into them all at
once. Only three men, two women, and a young
boy were found at home, the rest being out among
the neighbouring white people, some to sell the
baskets, brooms, and bowls they manufactured, and
others on other occasions. These poor defenceless
creatures were immediately fired upon, stabbed, and
hatchet ed to death! The good Shehaes, among the
rest, cut to pieces in his bed. All of them were
scalped and otherwise horribly mangled. Then their
huts were set on fire, and most of them burnt down.
Then the troop, pleased with their own conduct and
bravery, but enraged that any of the poor Indians
had escaped the massacre, rode off, and in small
parties, by different roads, went home.

The universal concern of the neighbouring white
people, on hearing of this event, and the lamentations
of the younger Indians, when they returned and
saw the desolation, and the butchered, half-burnt
bodies of their murdered parents and other relations,
cannot well be expressed.

The magistrates of Lancaster sent out to collect the
remaining Indians, brought them into the town for
their better security against any farther attempt;
and, it is said, condoled with them on the misfortune
that had happened, took them by the hand, com-
forted, and promised them protection. They were
all put into the workhouse, a strong building, as the
place of greatest safety.

When the shocking news arrived in town, a

26 The Works of [1764

proclamation was issued by the governor, in the
following terms, viz. :

"Whereas I have received information that on
Wednesday, the fourteenth day of this month, a
number of people, armed and mounted on horseback,
unlawfully assembled together, and went to the In-
dian town in the Conestogo manor, in Lancaster
county, and without the least reason or provocation,
in cool blood, barbarously killed six of the Indians
settled there, and burnt and destroyed all their
houses and effects; and whereas so cruel and in-
human an act, committed in the heart of this prov-
ince on the said Indians, who have lived peaceably
and inoffensively among us during all our late
troubles, and for many years before, and were justly
considered as under the protection of this govern-
ment and its laws, calls loudly for the vigorous exer-
tion of the civil authority, to detect the offenders,
and bring them to condign punishment; I have,
therefore, by and with the advice and consent of the
council, thought fit to issue this proclamation, and do
hereby strictly charge and enjoin all judges, justices,
sheriffs, constables, officers, civil and military, and all
other his Majesty's liege subjects within this province,
to make diligent search and inquiry after the authors
and perpetrators of the said crime, their abettors and
accomplices, and to use all possible means to appre-
hend and secure them in some of the public gaols of
this province, that they may be brought to their
trials, and be proceeded against according to law.

"And whereas a number of other Indians, who

i764] Benjamin Franklin 27

lately lived on or near the frontiers of this province,
being willing and desirous to preserve and continue
the ancient friendship, which heretofore subsisted
between them and the good people of this province,
have, at their own earnest request, been removed
from their habitations, and brought into the county
of Philadelphia, and seated for the present, for their
better security, on the Province Island, and in other
places in the neighborhood of the city of Philadel-
phia, where provision is made for them at the pub-
lic expense; I do, therefore, hereby strictly forbid
all persons whatsoever, to molest or injure any of
the said Indians, as they will answer the contrary at
their peril.

" Given under my hand, and the great seal of the
said province, at Philadelphia, the twenty-second
day of December, anno Domini, one thousand seven
hundred and sixty-three, and in the fourth year of his

Majesty's reign.

"John Penn.

" By his Honor's command,

"Joseph Shippen, Jr., Secretary.

"God save the King."

Notwithstanding this proclamation, those cruel
men again assembled themselves, and, hearing that
the remaining fourteen Indians were in the workhouse
at Lancaster, they suddenly appeared in that town,
on the 27th of December. Fifty of them, armed as
before, dismounting, went directly to the workhouse,
and by violence broke open the door, and entered
with the utmost fury in their countenances. When

28 The Works of [1764

the poor wretches saw they had no protection nigh,
nor could possibly escape, and being without the least
weapon for defence, they divided into their little
families, the children clinging to the parents; they
fell on their knees, protested their innocence, declared
their love to the English, and that in their whole
lives they had never done them injury ; and in this
posture they all received the hatchet! Men, women,
and little children were every one inhumanly mur-
dered in cold blood !

The barbarous men who committed the atrocious
fact, in defiance of government, of all laws human
and divine, and to the eternal disgrace of their coun-
try and color, then mounted their horses, huzzaed in
triumph, as if they had gained a victory, and rode off
unmolested!

The bodies of the murdered were then brought out
and exposed in the street, till a hole could be made
in the earth to receive and cover them.

But the wickedness cannot be covered; the guilt
will lie on the whole land, till justice is done on the
murderers. The blood of the innocent will cry to
Heaven for vengeance.

It is said that Shehaes being before told, that it
was to be feared some English might come from the
frontier into the country, and murder him and his
people, he replied: " It is impossible ; there are In-
dians, indeed, in the woods, who would kill me and
mine, if they could get at us, for my friendship to
the English; but the English will wrap me in their
matchcoat, and secure me from all danger." How
unfortunately was he mistaken!

1764] Benjamin Franklin 29

Another proclamation has been issued, offering a
great reward for apprehending the murderers, in the
following terms, viz. :

"Whereas on the twenty-second day of December
last, I issued a proclamation for the apprehending
and bringing to justice a number of persons, who, in
violation of the public faith, and in defiance of all
law, had inhumanly killed six of the Indians, who had
lived in Conestogo manor, for the course of many
years, peaceably and inoffensively, under the protec-
tion of this government, on lands assigned to them
for their habitation ; notwithstanding which, I have
received information, that on the twenty-seventh of
the same month, a large party of armed men again
assembled and met together in a riotous and tumul-
tuous manner, in the county of Lancaster, and pro-
ceeded to the town of Lancaster, where they violently
broke open the workhouse, and butchered and put
to death fourteen of the said Conestogo Indians, men,
women, and children, who had been taken under the
immediate care and protection of the magistrates of
the said county, and lodged for their better security
in the said workhouse, till they should be more
effectually provided for by order of the government;
and whereas common justice loudly demands, and
the laws of the land (upon the preservation of which
not only the liberty and security of every individual,
but the being of the government itself depends) re-
quire, that the above offenders should be brought to
condign punishment: I have, therefore, by and with
the advice of the council, published this proclamation,

30 The Works of [1764

and do hereby strictly charge and command all
judges, justices, sheriffs, constables, officers, civil and
military, and all other his Majesty's faithful and
liege subjects within this province, to make diligent
search and inquiries after the authors and perpe-
trators of the said last-mentioned offence, their abet-
tors and accomplices, and that they use all possible
means to apprehend and secure them in some of the
public gaols of this province, to be dealt with accord-
ing to law.

" And I do hereby further promise and engage, that
any person or persons who shall apprehend and
secure, or cause to be apprehended and secured, any
three of the ringleaders of the said party, and prose-
cute them to conviction, shall have and receive for
each the public reward of two hundred pounds ; and
any accomplice, not concerned in the immediate
shedding the blood of the said Indians, who shall
make discovery of any or either of the said ringlead-
ers, and apprehend and prosecute them to conviction,
shall, over and above the said reward, have all the
weight and influence of the government, for obtaining
his Majesty's pardon for his offence.

" Given under my hand, and the great seal of the

said province, at Philadelphia, the second day of

January, in the fourth year of his Majesty's reign, and

in the year of our Lord one thousand seven hundred

and sixty-four."

"John Penn.

" By his Honor's command,

"Joseph Shippen, Jr., Secretary.
"God save the King."

1764] Benjamin Franklin 31

These proclamations have as yet produced no
discovery, the murderers having given out such
threatenings against those that disapprove their
proceedings, that the whole country seems to be in
terror, and no one dare speak what he knows;
even the letters from thence are unsigned in which
any dislike is expressed of the rioters.

There are some (I am ashamed to hear it) who
would extenuate the enormous wickedness of these
actions by saying: " The inhabitants of the frontiers
are exasperated with the murder of their relations by
the enemy Indians in the present war. " It is possible ;
but though this might justify their going out into
the woods to seek for those enemies and avenge upon
them those murders, it can never justify their turning
into the heart of the country to murder their friends.

If an Indian injures me, does it follow that I may
revenge that injury on all Indians ? It is well known
that Indians are of different tribes, nations, and lan-
guages as well as the white people. In Europe, if
the French, who are white people, should injure the
Dutch, are they to revenge it on the English, because
they too are white people ? The only crime of these
poor wretches seems to have been that they had a
reddish-brown skin and black hair, and some people
of that sort, it seems, had murdered some of our re-
lations. If it be right to kill men for such a reason,
then should any man with a freckled face and red
hair kill a wife or child of mine, it would be right for
me to revenge it by killing all the freckled, red-
haired men, women, and children I could afterwards
anywhere meet with.

32 The Works of [1764

But it seems these people think they have a better
justification; nothing less than the Word of God.
With the Scriptures in their hand and mouths they
can set at nought that express demand, Thou shalt
do no murder, and justify their wickedness by the
command given Joshua to destroy the heathen.
Horrid perversion of Scripture and of religion! To
father the worst of crimes on the God of peace and
love! Even the Jews, to whom that particular com-
mission was directed, spared the Gibeonites on ac-
count of their faith once given. The faith of this
government has been frequently given to those In-
dians ; but that did not avail them with people who
despise government.

We pretend to be Christians, and from the superi-
or light we enjoy ought to exceed heathens, Turks,
Saracens, Moors, Negroes, and Indians in the know-
ledge and practice of what is right. I will endeavour
to show, by a few examples from books and history,
the sense those people have had of such actions.

Homer wrote his poem, called the Odyssey, some
hundred years before the birth of Christ. He fre-
quently speaks of what he calls not only the duties,
but the sacred rites of hospitality, exercised towards
strangers while in our house or territory, as including,
besides all the common circumstances of entertain-
ment, full safety and protection of person from all
danger of life, from all injuries, and even insults.
The rites of hospitality were called sacred, because
the stranger, the poor, and the weak, when they ap-
plied for protection and relief, were from the religion
of those times supposed to be sent by the Deity to

1764] Benjamin Franklin 33

try the goodness of men, and that he would avenge
the injuries they might receive where they ought to
have been protected. These sentiments, therefore,
influenced the manners of all ranks of people, even
the meanest ; for we find that when Ulysses came as
a poor stranger to the hut of Eumaeus, the swineherd,
and his great dogs ran out to tear the ragged man,
Eumaeus drave them away with stones, and

'"Unhappy stranger!' (thus the faithful swain
Began, with accent gracious and humane)
'What sorrow had been mine, if at my gate
Thy reverend age had met a shameful fate!
But enter this my lonely roof, and see
Our woods not void of hospitality.'
He said, and seconding the kind request,
With friendly step precedes the unknown guest,
A shaggy goat's soft hide beneath him spread,
And with fresh rushes heaped an ample bed.
Joy touched the hero's tender soul, to find
So just reception from a heart so kind ;
And ' 0 ye gods, with all your blessings grace '
(He thus broke forth) ' this friend of human race ! '

The swain replied : ' It never was our guise
To slight the poor, or aught humane despise.
For Jove unfolds the hospitable door,
'T is Jove that sends the stranger and the poor.'"

These heathen people thought that after a breach
of the rights of hospitality a curse from Heaven would
attend them in every thing they did, and even their
honest industry in their callings would fail of success.
Thus when Ulysses tells Eumasus, who doubted the
truth of what he related: " If I deceive you in this
I should deserve death, and I consent that you
The Works of [1764

should put me to death " ; Eumaeus rejects the pro-
posal as what would be attended with both infamy
and misfortune, saying ironically :

"Doubtless, O guest, great laud and praise were mine,
If, after social rites and gifts bestowed,
I stained my hospitable hearth with blood.
How would the gods my righteous toils succeed,
And bless the hand that made a stranger bleed?
No more."

Even an open enemy, in the heat of battle, throw-
ing down his arms, submitting to his foe, and asking
life and protection, was supposed to acquire an im-
mediate right to that protection. Thus one de-
scribes his being saved when his party was defeated:

"We turned to flight; the gathering vengeance spread
On all parts round, and heaps on heaps lie dead.
The radiant helmet from my brows unlaced,
And lo, on earth my shield and javelin cast,
I meet the monarch with a suppliant's face,
Approach his chariot, and his knees embrace.
He heard, he saved, he placed me at his side;
My state he pitied, and my tears he dried;
Restrained the rage the vengeful foe expressed,
And turned the deadly weapons from my breast.
Pious to guard the hospitable rite,
And fearing Jove, whom mercy's works delight."

The suitors of Penelope are, by the same ancient
poet, described as a set of lawless men, who were
regardless of the sacred rights of hospitality. And,
therefore, when the Queen was informed they were
slain, and that by Ulysses, she, not believing that
Ulysses was returned, says:

1764] Benjamin Franklin 35

"Ah no! some god the suitors' deaths decreed,
Some god descends, and by his hand they bleed;
Blind, to contemn the stranger's righteous cause,
And violate all hospitable laws!
. . . The powers they defied;
But Heaven is just, and by a god they died."

Thus much for the sentiments of the ancient
heathens. As for the Turks, it is recorded in the
Life of Mahomet, the founder of their religion, that
Khaled, one of his captains, having divided a num-
ber of prisoners between himself and those that were
with him, he commanded the hands of his own pris-
oners to be tied behind them, and then, in a most
cruel and brutal manner, put them to the sword; but
he could not prevail on his men to massacre their
captives, because in fight they had laid down their
arms, submitted, and demanded protection. Ma-
homet, when the account was brought to him,
applauded the men for their humanity ; but said to
Khaled, with great indignation: "O Khaled, thou
butcher, cease to molest me with thy wickedness. If
thou possessedst a heap of gold as large as Mount
Obod, and shouldst expend it all in God's cause, thy
merit would not efface the guilt incurred by the mur-
der of the meanest of those poor captives."

Among the Arabs or Saracens, though it was lawful
to put to death a prisoner taken in battle, if he had
made himself obnoxious by his former wickedness,
yet this could not be done after he had once eaten
bread, or drunk water, while in their hands. Hence
we read in the history of the wars of the Holy Land,
that when the Franks had suffered a great defeat

36 The Works of [1764

from Saladin, and among the prisoners were the king
of Jerusalem, and Arnold, a famous Christian cap-
tain, who had been very cruel to the Saracens ; these
two being brought before the Sultan, he placed the
king on his right hand and Arnold on his left; and
then presented the king with a cup of water, who
immediately drank to Arnold ; but when Arnold was
about to receive the cup, the Sultan interrupted, say-
ing: " I will not suffer this wicked man to drink, as
that, according to the laudable and generous customs
of the Arabs, would secure him his life."

That the same laudable and generous custom still
prevails among the Mahometans, appears from the
account, but last year published, of his travels by
Mr. Bell, of Antermony, who accompanied the Czar,
Peter the Great, in his journey to Derbent through
Daggestan. "The religion of the Daggestans," says
he, "is generally Mohammedan, some following the
sect of Osman, others that of Haly. Their language
for the most part is Turkish, or rather a dialect of
the Arabic, though many of them speak also the
Persian language. One article I cannot omit con-
cerning their laws of hospitality, which is, if their
greatest enemy comes under their roof for protec-
tion, the landlord, of what condition soever, is obliged
to keep him safe, from all manner of harm or vio-
lence, during his abode with him, and even to conduct
him safely through his territories to a place of
security."

From the Saracens this same custom obtained
among the Moors of Africa; was by them brought
into Spain, and there long sacredly observed. The

1764] Benjamin Franklin 37

Spanish historians record with applause one famous
instance of it. While the Moors governed there,
and the Spaniards were mixed with them, a Spanish
cavalier in a sudden quarrel slew a young Moorish
gentleman and fled. His pursuers soon lost sight of
him; for he had, unperceived, thrown himself over a
garden wall. The owner, a Moor, happening to be
in his garden, was addressed by the Spaniard on his
knees, who acquainted him with his case, and im-
plored concealment. "Eat this," said the Moor,
giving him half a peach. " You now know that you
may confide in my protection. ' ' He then locked him
up in his garden apartment, telling him that as soon
as it was night he would provide for his escape to a
place of more safety. The Moor then went into his
house, where he had scarce seated himself when a
great crowd, with loud lamentations, came to his
gate, bringing the corpse of his son, that had just been
killed by a Spaniard. When the first shock of sur-
prise was a little over, he learnt from the description
given that the fatal deed was done by the person
then in his power. He mentioned this to no one;
but as soon as it was dark retired to his garden
apartment, as if to grieve alone, giving orders that
none should follow him. There accosting the Span-
iard he said: " Christian, the person you have killed
is my son. His body is now in my house. You
ought to suffer; but you have eaten with me, and I
have given you my faith, which must not be broken.
Follow me." He then led the astonished Spaniard
to his stables, mounted him on one of his fleetest
horses, and said: " Fly far while the night can cover

38 The Works of [1764

you. You will be safe in the morning. You are in-
deed guilty of my son's blood; but God is just and
good, and I thank him that I am innocent of yours,
and that my faith given is preserved."

The Spaniards caught from the Moors this punio of
honor, the effects of which remain, in a degree, to
this day. So that when there is fear of a war about
to break out between England and Spain, an English
merchant there, who apprehends the confiscation of
his goods as the goods of an enemy, thinks them
safe if he can get a Spaniard to take charge of them ;
for the Spaniard secures them as his own, and faith-
fully redelivers them, or pays the value, whenever
the Englishman can safely demand it.

Justice to that nation, though lately our enemies,
and hardly yet our cordial friends, obliges me on this
occasion not to omit mentioning an instance of
Spanish honor which cannot but be still fresh in the
memory of many yet living. In 1746, when we
were in a hot war with Spain, the Elizabeth, of Lon-
don, Captain William Edwards, coming through the
Gulf from Jamaica richly laden, met with a most vio-
lent storm, in which the ship sprung a leak, that
obliged them, for the saving of their lives, to run her
into the Havana. The captain went on shore, di-
rectly waited on the governor, told the occasion of
his putting in, and that he surrendered his ship as a
prize, and himself and his men as prisoners of war,
only requesting good quarter. "No, sir," replied
the Spanish governor; "if we had taken you in
fair war at sea, or approaching our coast with hostile
intentions, your ship would then have been a prize,

1764] Benjamin Franklin 39

and your people prisoners. But when distressed by
a tempest you come into our ports for the safety of
your lives, we, though enemies, being men, are bound
as such by the laws of humanity to afford relief to
distressed men who ask it of us. We cannot, even
against our enemies, take advantage of an act of
God. You have leave, therefore, to unload the ship,
if that be necessary, to stop the leak ; you may refit
here, and traffic so far as shall be necessary to pay
the charges. You may then depart, and I will give
you a pass, to be in force till you are beyond Ber-
muda. If after that you are taken, you will then be
a prize ; but now you are only a stranger, and have a
stranger's right to safety and protection." The ship
accordingly departed, and arrived safe in London.

Will it be permitted me to adduce, on this occasion,
an instance of a like honor in a poor unenlightened
African Negro? I find it in Captain Seagrave's ac-
count of his Voyage of Guinea. He relates that a
New England sloop, trading there in 1852, left their
second mate, William Murray, sick on shore, and
sailed without him. Murray was at the house of a
black, named Cudjoe, with whom he had contracted
an acquaintance during their trade. He recovered,
and the sloop being gone, he continued with his black
friend till some other opportunity should offer of his
getting home. In the meanwhile, a Dutch ship
came into the road, and some of the blacks going on
board her, were treacherously seized, and carried off
as slaves. Their relations and friends, transported
with sudden rage, ran to the house of Cudjoe to take
revenge by killing Murray. Cudjoe stopped them at

40 The Works of [1764

the door, and demanded what they wanted. "The
white men," said they, "have carried away our
brothers and sons, and we will kill all white men ; give
us the white man that you keep in your house, for we
will kill him. " " Nay, " said Cudjoe, " the white men
that carried away your brothers are bad men, kill
them when you can catch them; but this white man
is a good man, and you must not kill him." " But
he is a white man," they cried; " the white men are
all bad, and we will kill them all." " Nay," says he,
"you must not kill a man, that has done no harm,
only for being white. This man is my friend, my
house is his fort, and I am his soldier. I must fight
for him. You must kill me, before you can kill
him. What good man will ever come again under
my roof, if I let my floor be stained with a good man's
blood! " The Negroes, seeing his resolution, and be-
ing convinced by his discourse that they were wrong,
went away ashamed. In a few days, Murray ven-
tured abroad again with Cudjoe, when several of
them took him by the hand, and told him they were
glad they had not killed him; for, as he was a good
(meaning an innocent) man, their God would have
been angry, and would have spoiled their fishing. " I
relate this," says Captain Seagrave, "to show that
some among these dark people have a strong sense of
justice and honor, and that even the most brutal
among them are capable of feeling the force of reason,
and of being influenced by a fear of God (if the know-
ledge of the true God could be introduced among
them), since even the fear of a false god, when their
rage subsided, was not without its good effect."

1764] Benjamin Franklin 41

Now I am about to mention something of Indians,
I beg that I may not be understood as framing apolo-
gies for all Indians. I am far from desiring to lessen
the laudable spirit of resentment in my countrymen
against those now at war with us, so far as it is justi-
fied by their perfidy and inhumanity. I would only
observe, that the Six Nations, as a body, have kept
faith with the English ever since we knew them, now
near a hundred years ; and that the governing part
of those people have had notions of honor, whatever
may be the case with the rum-debauched, trader-cor-
rupted vagabonds and thieves on the Susquehanna
and Ohio, at present in arms against us. As a proof
of that honor, I shall only mention one well-known
recent fact. When six Catawba deputies, under the
care of Colonel Bull, of Charlestown, went by permis-
sion into the Mohawk's country, to sue for and treat
of peace, for their nation, they soon found the Six
Nations highly exasperated, and the peace at that
time impracticable. They were therefore in fear of
their own persons, and apprehended that they should
be killed in their way back to New York ; which be-
ing made known to the Mohawk chiefs by Colonel
Bull, one of them, by order of the council, made this
speech, to the Catawbas:

"Strangers and Enemies:

"While you are in this country, blow away all fear
out of your breasts ; change the black streak of paint
on your cheek for a red one, and let your faces shine
with bear's grease. You are safer here than if you
were at home. The Six Nations will not defile their

42 The Works of [1764

own land with the blood of men that come unarmed
to ask for peace. We shall send a guard with you,
to see you safe out of our territories. So far you
shall have peace, but no farther. Get home to your
own country, and take care of yourselves, for there
we intend to come and kill you."

The Catawbas came away unhurt accordingly.

It is also well known that just before the late war
broke out, when our traders first went among the
Piankeshaw Indians, a tribe of the Twigtwees, they
found the principle of giving protection to strangers in
full force ; for, the French coming with their Indians
to the Piankeshaw town, and demanding that those
traders and their goods should be delivered up, the
Piankeshaws replied the English were come there upon
their invitation, and they could not do so base a thing.
But the French insisting on it, the Piankeshaws took
arms in defence of their guests, and a number of them,
with their old chief, lost their lives in the cause, the
French at last prevailing by superior force only.

I will not dissemble that numberless stories have
been raised and spread abroad, against not only the
poor wretches that are murdered, but also against the
hundred and forty Christianized Indians, still threat-
ened to be murdered; all of which stories are well
known, by those who know the Indians best, to be
pure inventions, contrived by bad people, either to
excite each other to join in the murder, or since it
was committed, to justify it, and believed only by the
weak and credulous. I call thus publicly on the
makers and venders of these accusations to produce

1764] Benjamin Franklin 43

their evidence. Let them satisfy the public that
even Will Soc, the most obnoxious of all that tribe,
was really guilty of those offenses against us which
they lay to his charge. But, if he was, ought he not
to have been fairly tried? He lived under our laws,
and was subject to them; he was in our hands, and
might easily have been prosecuted; was it English
justice to condemn and execute him unheard? Con-
scious of his own innocence, he did not endeavour to
hide himself when the door of the workhouse, his
sanctuary, was breaking open. "I will meet them."
says he, " for they are my brothers." These brothers
of his shot him down at the door, while the word
"brothers" was between his teeth.

But if Will Soc was a bad man, what had poor old
Shehaes done ? What could he or the other poor old
men and women do ? What had little boys and girls
done? What could children of a year old, babes at
the breast, what could they do, that they too must be
shot and hatcheted ? Horrid to relate ! And in their
parent's arms! This is done by no civilized nation
in Europe. Do we come to America to learn and
practise the manners of barbarians? But this, bar-
barians as they are, they practise against their ene-
mies only, not against their friends. These poor
people have been always our friends. Their fathers
received ours, when strangers here, with kindness and
hospitality. Behold the return we have made them!
When we grew more numerous and powerful, they
put themselves under our protection. See, in the
mangled corpses of the last remains of the tribe, how
effectually we have afforded it to them!

44 The Works of [1764

Unhappy people! to have lived in such times, and
by such neighbours. We have seen that they would
have been safer among the ancient heathens, with
whom the rites of hospitality were sacred. They
would have been considered as guests of the public,
and the religion of the country would have operated
in their favor. But our frontier people call them-
selves Christians! They would have been safer, if
they had submitted to the Turks ; for ever since Ma-
homet's reproof to Khaled, even the cruel Turks
never kill prisoners in cold blood. These were not
even prisoners. But what is the example of Turks to
Scripture Christians? They would have been safer,
though they had been taken in actual war against the
Saracens, if they had once drank water with them.
These were not taken in war against us, and have
drunk with us, and we with them, for fourscore years.
But shall we compare Saracens to Christians?

They would have been safer among the Moors in
Spain, though they had been murderers of sons; if
faith had once been pledged to them, and a promise
of protection given. But these have had the faith of
the English given to them many times by the gov-
ernment, and, in reliance on that faith, they lived
among us, and gave us the opportunity of murdering
them. However, what was honorable in Moors, may
not be a rule to us; for we are Christians! They
would have been safer, it seems, among Popish Span-
iards, even if enemies, and delivered into their hands
by a tempest. These were not enemies; they were
born among us, and yet we have killed them all. But
shall we imitate idolatrous Papists, we that are en-

1764] Benjamin Franklin 45

lightened Protestants ? They would even have been
safer among the Negroes of Africa, where at least
one manly soul would have been found, with sense,
spirit, and humanity enough, to stand in their de-
fence. But shall white men and Christians act like a
Pagan Negro ? In short, it appears, that they would
have been safe in any part of the known world,
except in the neighborhood of the Christian white
savages of Peckstang and Donegall!

O, ye unhappy perpetrators of this horrid wicked-
ness ! reflect a moment on the mischief ye have done,
the disgrace ye have brought on your country, on
your religion and your Bible, on your families and
children. Think on the destruction of your capti-
vated countryfolks (now among the wild Indians)
which probably may follow, in resentment of your
barbarity! Think on the wrath of the United Five
Nations, hitherto our friends, but now, provoked by
your murdering one of their tribes, in danger of be-
coming our bitter enemies. Think of the mild and
good government you have so audaciously insulted;
the laws of your king, your country, and your God,
that you have broken ; the infamous death that hangs
over your heads; for justice, though slow, will come
at last. All good people everywhere detest your
actions. You have imbrued your hands in innocent
blood; how will you make them clean? The dying
shrieks and groans of the murdered will often sound in
your ears. Their spectres will sometimes attend you,
and affright even your innocent children. Fly where
you will, your consciences will go with you. Talk-
ing in your sleep shall betray you; in the delirium

46 The Works of [1764

of a fever you yourselves shall make your own
wickedness known.

One hundred and forty peaceable Indians yet re-
main in this government. They have, by Christian
missionaries, been brought over to a liking, at least,
of our religion ; some of them lately left their nation,
which is now at war with us, because they did not
choose to join with them in their depredations; and
to show their confidence in us, and to give us an
equal confidence in them, they have brought and put
into our hands their wives and children. Others
have lived long among us in Northampton county,
and most of their children have been born there.
These are all now trembling for their lives. They
have been hurried from place to place for safety, now
concealed in corners, then sent out of the province,
refused a passage through a neighbouring colony,
and returned, not unkindly, perhaps, but disgrace-
fully, on our hands. O Pennsylvania! Once re-
nowned for kindness to strangers, shall the clamors of
a few mean niggards about the expense of this public
hospitality, an expense that will not cost the noisy
wretches sixpence a piece (and what is the expense
of the poor maintenance we afford them, compared
to the expense they might occasion if in arms
against us?), — shall so senseless a clamor, I say, force
you to turn out of your own doors these unhappy
guests, who have offended their own country-folks by
their affection for you, who, confiding in your good-
ness, have put themselves under your protection?
Those whom you have disarmed to satisfy groundless
suspicions, will you leave them exposed to the armed

1764] Benjamin Franklin 47

madmen of your country ? Unmanly men ! who are
not ashamed to come with weapons against the un-
armed, to use the sword against women, and the
bayonet against young children; and who have al-
ready given such bloody proofs of their inhumanity
and cruelty.

Let us rouse ourselves, for shame, and redeem the
honor of our province from the contempt of its neigh-
bours ; let all good men join heartily and unanimously
in support of the laws, and in strengthening the hands
of government ; that justice may be done, the wicked
punished, and the innocent protected; otherwise we
can, as a people, expect no blessing from Heaven;
there will be no security for our persons or proper-
ties; anarchy and confusion will prevail over all;
and violence without judgment dispose of every
thing.

When I mention the baseness of the murderers, in
the use they made of arms, I cannot, I ought not, to
forget the very different behaviour of brave men and
true soldiers, of which this melancholy occasion has
afforded us fresh instances. The Royal Highlanders
have, in the course of this war, suffered as much as
any other corps, and have frequently had their ranks
thinned by an Indian enemy, yet they did not for this
retain a brutal undistinguishing resentment against
all Indians, friends as well as foes. But a company
of them, happening to be here, when the one hundred
and forty poor Indians above mentioned were thought
in too much danger to stay longer in the province,
cheerfully undertook to protect and escort them
to New York, which they executed (as far as that

48 The Works of [1764

Government would permit the Indians to come) with
fidelity and honor; and their captain, Robinson, is
justly applauded and honored by all sensible and
good people, for the care, tenderness, and humanity,
with which he treated those unhappy fugitives, dur-
ing their march in this severe season.

General Gage, too, has approved of his officer's
conduct, and, as I hear, ordered him to remain with
the Indians at Amboy, and continue his protection to
them, till another body of the King's forces could be
sent to relieve his company, and escort their charge
back in safety to Philadelphia, where his Excellency
has had the goodness to direct those forces to remain
for some time, under the orders of our governor, for
the security of the Indians; the troops of this pro-
vince being at present necessarily posted on the fron-
tier. Such just and generous actions endear the
military to the civil power, and impress the minds of
all the discerning with a still greater respect for our
national government. I shall conclude with observ-
ing, that cowards can handle arms, can strike where
they are sure to meet with no return, can wound,
mangle, and murder; but it belongs to brave men to
spare and to protect; for, as the poet says,

" Mercy still sways the brave."

1764] Benjamin Franklin 49

CCLII

COOL THOUGHTS ON THE PRESENT SITUATION OF OUR
PUBLIC AFFAIRS f

IN A LETTER TO A FRIEND IN THE COUNTRY

Philadelphia, 12 April, 1764.

Sir: — Your apology was unnecessary. It will be
no trouble, but a pleasure, if I can give you the
satisfaction you desire. I shall therefore immedi-
ately communicate to you my motives for approv-
ing the proposal of endeavouring to obtain a Royal
Government, in exchange for this of the Proprietaries ;
with such answers to the objections you mention as,
in my opinion, fully obviate them.

I do not purpose entering into the merits of the
disputes between the proprietaries and the people. I
only observe it as a fact known to us all, that such
disputes there are, and that they have long subsisted,
greatly to the prejudice of the province, clogging
and embarrassing all the wheels of government, and
exceedingly obstructing the public defence, and the
measures wisely concerted by our gracious Sovereign,
for the common security of the colonies. I may add
it as another fact, that we are all heartily tired of
these disputes.

It is very remarkable, that disputes of the same

1 Franklin's first mission to England was successful in its purpose to
have the proprietary estates in Pennsylvania pay their due share of the
taxes for the defence of the country, but not in producing harmony
between the proprietary and the popular party. The governor, acting
in the interest of the proprietaries, resisted the wishes of the Assembly,
and there was great discontent. The best remedy for this state of
things, in Franklin's judgment, was to have the king take the govern-
ment of the colony into his own hands, indemnifying the proprietaries.
This paper was written to enforce that view. — Editor.

VOL. IV.— 4.

50 The Works of [1764

kind have arisen in all proprietary governments, and
subsisted till their dissolution. All were made un-
happy by them, and found no relief but in recurring
finally to the immediate government of the crown.
Pennsylvania and Maryland are the only two of the
kind remaining, and both at this instant agitated
by the same contentions between proprietary inter-
est and power, and popular liberty. Through these
contentions the good people of that province are
rendered equally unhappy with ourselves, and their
proprietary, perhaps, more so than ours; for he has
no Quakers in his assembly to saddle with the blame
of those contentions, nor can he justify himself with
the pretence, that turning to the church has made his
people his enemies.

Pennsylvania had scarce been settled twenty years,
when these disputes began between the first proprie-
tor and the original settlers; they continued, with
some intermissions, during his whole life ; his widow
took them up, and continued them after his death.
Her sons resumed them very early,1 and they still
subsist. Mischievous and distressing as they have
been found to both proprietors and people, it does
not appear that there is any prospect of their being
extinguished, till either the proprietary purse is un-
able to support them, or the spirit of the people so
broken, that they shall be willing to submit to any
thing, rather than continue them. The first is not
very likely to happen, as that immense estate goes on
increasing.

1 See their message to the Assembly, in which the right of sitting on
their own adjournments is denied.

1764] Benjamin Franklin 51

Considering all circumstances, I am at length in-
clined to think, that the cause of these miserable
contentions is not to be sought for merely in the
depravity and selfishness of human minds. For,
though it is not unlikely that in these, as well as in
other disputes, there are faults on both sides, every
glowing coal being apt to inflame its opposite ; yet I
see no reason to suppose that all proprietary rulers are
worse men than other rulers, nor that all people in
proprietary governments are worse people than those
in other governments. I suspect, therefore, that the
cause is radical, interwoven in the constitution, and
so become the very nature, of proprietary govern-
ments ; and will therefore produce its effects, as long
as such governments continue. And, as some physi-
cians say, every animal body brings into the world
among its original stamina the seeds of that dis-
ease that shall finally produce its dissolution; so the
political body of a proprietary government con-
tains those convulsive principles that will at length
destroy it.

I may not be philosopher enough to develope
those principles, nor would this letter afford me room,
if I had abilities, for such a discussion. The fact
seems sufficient for our purpose, and the fact is noto-
rious, that such contentions have been in all proprie-
tary governments, and have brought, or are now
bringing, them all to a conclusion. I will only men-
tion one particular common to them all. Proprie-
taries must have a multitude of private accounts and
dealings with almost all the people of their provinces,
either for purchase money or quit-rents. Dealings

52 The Works of [1764

often occasion differences and differences produce
mutual opinions of injustice. If proprietaries do not
insist on small rights, they must on the whole lose
large sums ; and if they do insist on small rights, they
seem to descend, their dignity suffers in the opinion
of the people, and with it the respect necessary to
keep up the authority of government. The people,
who think themselves injured in point of property,
are discontented with the government, and grow tur-
bulent; and the proprietaries' using their powers of
government to procure for themselves what they
think justice in their points of property, renders those
powers odious. I suspect this has had no small share
in producing the confusions incident to those govern-
ments. They appear, however, to be, of all others,
the most unhappy.

At present we are in a wretched situation. The
government, that ought to keep all in order, is itself
weak, and has scarce authority enough to keep the
common peace. Mobs assemble and kill (we scarce
dare say murder) numbers of innocent people in cold
blood, who were under the protection of the govern-
ment. Proclamations are issued to bring the rioters
to justice. Those proclamations are treated with the
utmost indignity and contempt. Not a magistrate
dares wag a finger towards discovering or appre-
hending the delinquents (we must not call them
murderers). They assemble again, and with arms in
their hands approach the capital. The government
truckles, condescends to cajole them, and drops all
prosecution of their crimes; whilst honest citizens,
threatened in their lives and fortunes, flee the pro-

1764] Benjamin Franklin 53

vince, as having no confidence in the public protec-
tion. We are daily threatened with more of these tu-
mults; and the government, which in its distress called
aloud on the sober inhabitants to come with arms to
its assistance, now sees those who afforded that as-
sistance daily libelled, abused, and menaced by its
partisans for so doing; whence it has little reason
to expect such assistance on another occasion.

In this situation, what is to be done? By what
means is that harmony between the two branches of
government to be obtained, without which the inter-
nal peace of the province cannot be well secured?
One project is, to turn all Quakers out of the assem-
bly; or, by obtaining more members for the back
counties, to get a majority in who are not Quakers.
This, perhaps, is not very difficult to do; and more
members for those counties may, on other accounts,
be proper; but I much question if it would answer
this end, as I see among the members, that those
who are not Quakers, and even those from the back
counties, are as hearty and unanimous in opposing
what they think proprietary injustice, as the Quakers
themselves, if not more so. Religion has happily
nothing to do with our present differences, though
great pains is taken to lug it into the squabble. And
even were the Quakers extirpated, I doubt whether
the proprietaries, while they pursue the same meas-
ures, would be a whit more at their ease.

Another project is, to choose none for assembly-
men but such as are friends to the proprietaries.
The number of members is not so great, but that I
believe the scheme may be practicable, if you look

54 The Works of [1764

for representatives among proprietary officers and
dependants. Undoubtedly it would produce great
harmony between governor and assembly ; but how
would both of them agree with the people? Their
principles and conduct must greatly change, if they
would be elected a second year. But that might be
needless. Six parts in seven agreeing with the gov-
ernor, could make the House perpetual. This,
however, would not probably establish peace in the
province. The quarrel the people now have with
the proprietaries, would then be with both the
proprietaries and assembly. There seems to remain,
then, but one remedy for our evils, a remedy ap-
proved by experience, and which has been tried with
success by other provinces; I mean that of an im-
mediate Royal Government, without the interven-
tion of proprietary powers, which, like unnecessary
springs and movements in a machine, are so apt to
produce disorder.

It is not to be expected that the proposal of a
change like this, should meet with no objections.
Those you have mentioned to me, concerning liberty
of conscience and the privileges of Dissenters, are,
however, not difficult to answer; as they seem to
arise merely from want of information or acquaint-
ance with the state of other colonies, before and
after such changes had been made in their govern-
ment. Carolina and the Jerseys were formerly pro-
prietary governments, but now immediately under
the crown ; and their cases had many circumstances
similar to ours. Of the first we are told :

"There was a natural infirmity in the policy of

1764] Benjamin Franklin 55

their charter, which was the source of many of the
misfortunes of the colony, without any imputation on
the noble families concerned. For the grantees [the
proprietors], being eight in number, and not incor-
porated, and no provision being made to conclude
the whole number by the voices of the majority, there
could not be timely measures always agreed on,
which were proper or necessary for the good govern-
ment of the plantation. In the meantime, the in-
habitants grew unruly and quarrelled about religion
and politics; and while there was a mere anarchy
among them, they were exposed to the attacks and
insults of their Spanish and Indian neighbours, whom
they had impudently provoked and injured; and, as
if they had conspired against the growth of the col-
ony, they repealed their laws for liberty of conscience,
though the majority of the people were Dissenters,
and had resorted thither under the public faith for a
complete indulgence, which they considered as part
of their Magna Charta. Within these four years an
end was put to their sorrows; for about that time,
the lords proprietors and the planters (who had long
been heartily tired of each other) were, by the inter-
position of the Legislature, fairly divorced for ever,
and the property of the whole vested in the crown." '
And the above-mentioned injudicious and unjust act
against the privileges of Dissenters, was repealed by
the King in council.

Another historian tells us: "Their intestine dis-
tractions, and their foreign wars kept the colony so

1 New and Accurate Account of Carolina, p. 14; printed at London,
1733.

56 The Works of [1764

low, that an act of Parliament, if possible to prevent
the last ruinous consequences of these divisions, put
the province under the immediate care and inspec-
tion of the crown." x

And Governor Johnson, at his first meeting the
assembly there, after the change, tells them :

" His Majesty, out of his great goodness and
fatherly care of you, and at the earnest request and
solicitation of yourselves, has been graciously pleased,
at a great expense, to purchase seven eighths of the
late lords proprietaries' charter, whereby you are
become under his immediate government, a blessing
and security we have been long praying for, and so-
licitous of; the good effects of which we daily expe-
rience by the safety we enjoy, as well in our trade,
the protection of his ships of war, as by land, by an
independent company maintained purely for our
safety and encouragement. The taking off the enu-
meration of rice is a peculiar favor," &c.2

By these accounts we learn that the people of that
province, far from losing by the change, obtained in-
ternal security and external protection both by sea
and land; the Dissenters, a restoration and establish-
ment of their privileges, which the proprietary govern-
ment attempted to deprive them of; and the whole
province, favors in point of trade with respect to their
grand staple commodity, which from that time they
were allowed to carry directly to foreign ports, with-
out being obliged, as before, to enter in England.

With regard to the neighbouring province of New

1 An Account of the British Settlements in America, p. 233, concerning
Carolina. 'Historical Register, No. 63, for 1731.

1764] Benjamin Franklin 57

Jersey, we find, in a representation from the Board
of Trade to the crown, dated "Whitehall, October 2d,
1 701," the following account of it, namely: "That
the inhabitants, in a petition to his Majesty the last
year, complained of several grievances they lay under,
by the neglect or mismanagement of the proprietors
of that province, or their agents; unto which they
also added, that during the whole time the said pro-
prietors have governed, or pretended to govern, that
province, they have never taken care to preserve or
defend the same from the Indians or other enemies,
by sending or providing any arms, ammunition, or
stores, as they ought to have done ; and the said in-
habitants thereupon humbly prayed his Majesty
would be pleased to commissionate some fit person,
to be governor over them. That it has been repre-
sented to us by several letters, memorials, and other
papers, as well as from the inhabitants as proprietors,
that they are at present in confusion and anarchy, and
that it is much to be apprehended, lest by the heats
of the parties that are amongst them, they should fall
into such violences as may endanger the lives of many
persons and destroy the colony." x

In consequence of these disorders, and petitions
from the people, the proprietors were obliged to sur-
render that government to the crown; Queen Anne
then reigning, who, of all our crowned heads since the
Revolution, was by far the least favorable to Dis-
senters; yet her instructions to Lord Cornbury, her
first governor, were express and full in their favor, viz. :

1 Grants and Concessions, and Original Constitutions of New Jersey,
printed at Philadelphia by W. Bradford, p. 606.

58 The Works of [1764

"Instruction 51st. You are to permit a liberty of
conscience to all persons (except Papists), so that
they may be contented with a quiet and peaceable
enjoyment of the same, not giving offence or scandal
to the government.

" Instruction 5 2d. And whereas we have been in-
formed that divers of our good subjects inhabiting
those parts, do make a religious scruple of swearing,
and by reason of their refusing to take an oath in any
court of justice and other places, are or may be liable
to many inconveniences, our will and pleasure is, that,
in order to their ease in what they conceive to be
matter of conscience, so far as may be consistent with
good order and government, you take care that an
act be passed in the general assembly of our said
province, to the like effect as that passed here in the
seventh and eighth years of his late Majesty's reign,
entitled: 'An Act, that the solemn affirmation and
declaration of the people called Quakers, shall be ac-
cepted instead of an oath in the usual form'; and
that the same be transmitted to us, and to our Com-
missioners for Trade and Plantations, as before
directed.

" Instruction 53d. And whereas we have been
farther informed, that in the settlement of the gov-
ernment of our said province it may so happen, that
the number of inhabitants fitly qualified to serve in
our council, in the general assembly, and in other
places of trust and profit there, will be but small ; it
is therefore our will and pleasure, that such of the
said people called Quakers, as shall be found capable
of any of those places and employments, and accord-

1764] Benjamin Franklin 59

ingly be elected or appointed to serve therein, may,
upon their taking and signing the declaration of alle-
giance to us, in the form used by the same people
here in England, together with a solemn declaration
for the true discharge of their respective trusts, be
admitted by you into any of the said places or em-
ployments," &C.1

And the same privileges have been, and still are,
fully enjoyed in that province by Dissenters of all
kinds; the council, assembly, and magistracy being
filled with Episcopalians, Presbyterians, and Quakers,
promiscuously, without the least distinction or exclu-
sion of any. We may farther remark, on the above
report of the Board of Trade, that the defence of a
proprietary province was originally looked upon
as the duty of the proprietaries, who received the
quitrents, and had the emoluments of government;
whence it was that in former wars, when arms, am-
munition, cannon, and military stores of all kinds
have been sent by the crown to all the colonies under
its immediate government, whose situation and cir-
cumstances required it, nothing of the kind has been
sent to proprietary governments. And to this day,
neither Pennsylvania nor Maryland have received
any such assistance from the crown ; nor did Caro-
lina, till it became a King's government.

Massachusetts Bay, in New England, lost its char-
ter in the latter end of King Charles' reign, when the
charters of London and all the corporations in Eng-
land were seized. At the Revolution the crown gave
them a better constitution, which they enjoy to this

1 Grants and Concessions, &c, p. 633.

60 The Works of [1764

day. No advantages were taken against the privi-
leges of the people, though then universally Dis-
senters. The same privileges are enjoyed by the
Dissenters in New Hampshire, which has been a royal
government ever since 1679, when the freeholders
and inhabitants petitioned to be taken under the
immediate protection of the crown. Nor is there ex-
isting, in any of the American colonies, any test im-
posed by Great Britain, to exclude Dissenters from
offices. In some colonies, indeed, where the Episco-
palians, and in others the Dissenters, have been pre-
dominant, they have made partial laws in favor of
their respective sects, and laid some difficulties on
the others; but those laws have been generally, on
complaint, repealed at home.

It is farther objected, you tell me, that " if we have
a royal government, we must have with it a bishop
and a spiritual court, and must pay tithes to support
an Episcopal clergy." A bishop for America has
been long talked of in England, and probably, from
the apparent necessity of the thing, will sooner or
later be appointed ; because a voyage to England for
ordination is extremely inconvenient and expensive
to the young clergy educated in America; and the
Episcopal churches and clergy in these colonies can-
not so conveniently be governed and regulated by a
bishop residing in England, as by one residing among
those committed to his care. But this event will
happen neither sooner nor later for our being or not
being under a royal government. And the spiritual
court, if the bishop should hold one, can have author-
ity only with his own people, if with them, since it is

1764] Benjamin Franklin 61

not likely that any law of this province will ever be
made to submit the inhabitants to it, or oblige them
to pay tithes; and without such law, tithes can no
more be demanded here than they are in any other
colony; and there is not a single instance of tithes
demanded or paid in any part of America. A main-
tenance has, indeed, been established in some colo-
nies for the Episcopal clergy ; as in Virginia, a royal
government, and in Maryland, a proprietary gov-
ernment. But this was done by acts of their own,
which they were not obliged to make, if they did
not choose it.

That " we shall have a standing army to maintain, "
is another bugbear raised to terrify us from endeav-
ouring to obtain a King's government. It is very
possible that the crown may think it necessary to
keep troops in America henceforward, to maintain
its conquests and defend the colonies, and that the
Parliament may establish some revenue arising out
of the American trade, to be applied towards sup-
porting those troops. It is possible, too, that we
may, after a few years' experience, be generally very
well satisfied with that measure, from the steady pro-
tection it will afford us against foreign enemies, and
the security of internal peace among ourselves, with-
out the expense or trouble of a militia. But assure
yourself, my friend, that, whether we like it or not,
our continuing under a proprietary government will
not prevent it, nor our coming under a royal govern-
ment promote and forward it, any more than they
would prevent or procure rain or sunshine.

The other objections you have communicated to

62 The Works of [1764

me are, that, "in case of a change of proprietary
for royal government, our judges and other officers
will be appointed and sent us from England ; we must
have a legislative council ; our assembly will lose the
right of sitting on their own adjournments; we shall
lose the right of choosing sheriffs, and annual assem-
blies, and of voting by ballot. " I shall not enter into
the question, whether judges from England would
probably be of advantage or disadvantage to our law
proceedings. It is needless, as the power of appoint-
ing them is given to the governor here, by a law that
has received the royal assent, the "Act for establish-
ing Courts." The King's governor only comes in
place of a proprietary governor; he must (if the
change is made) take the government as he finds it.
He can alter nothing. The same answer serves for
all the subsequent objections. A legislative council
under proper regulations might perhaps be an amend-
ment of our constitution, but it cannot take place
without our consent, as our constitution is otherwise
established; nor can our assembly lose the right of
sitting on their own adjournments; nor the people
that of choosing sheriffs, and annual assemblies, or
of voting by ballot ; these rights being all confirmed
by acts of assembly assented to by the crown. I
mean the acts entitled: "An Act to ascertain the
Number of Members of Assembly and to regulate
the Elections," and " An Act for regulating the Elec-
tions of Sheriffs and Coroners"; both passed in the
fourth of Queen Anne.

I know it has been asserted, to intimidate us, that
those acts, so far from being approved by the crown,

1764] Benjamin Franklin 63

were never presented. But I can assure you, from
good authority, that they, with forty-eight others (all
passed at the same time by Governor Evans), were
duly laid before the Queen in council; who, on the
28th of April, 1709, referred the same to the Board
of Trade. The Board, on the 8th of September,
1709, reported upon the said fifty acts, that they had
considered the same, and had taken the opinion of the
attorney-general upon several of them in point of law,
and they represented against six of them, as unfit to
be continued in force ; but as to the other forty-four,
the titles of which are given at large, and among them
the two material acts above-mentioned, they had no
objection to the same. Whereupon there issued two
orders of the Queen in council, both dated at the
Court at Windsor, the 24th of October, 1709; one
repealing the six laws objected to, and the other ap-
proving the remaining forty-four.

This is a fact that you may depend upon. There is
therefore nothing now that can deprive us of those
privileges, but an act of Parliament ; and we may rely
on the united justice of King, Lords, and Commons,
that no such act will ever pass, while we continue
loyal and dutiful subjects. An Act of assembly, in-
deed, may give them up ; but I trust, urgent as they
are for admission, we shall never see proprietary
friends enough in the House to make that detestable
sacrifice.

In fine, it does not appear to me that this change
of government can possibly hurt us ; and I see many
advantages that may flow from it. The expres-
sion, change of government, seems, indeed, to be too

64 The Works of [1764

extensive ; and is apt to give the idea of a general and
total change of our laws and constitution. It is rather
and only a change of governor — that is, instead of self-
interested proprietaries, a gracious King. His Ma-
jesty, who has no views but for the good of the people,
will thenceforth appoint the governor, who, un-
shackled by proprietary instructions, will be at
liberty to join with the assembly in enacting whole-
some laws. At present, when the King requires sup-
plies of his faithful subjects, and they are willing and
desirous to grant them, the proprietaries intervene
and say: " Unless our private interests in certain
particulars are served, nothing shall be done/' This
insolent tribunal veto has long encumbered our pub-
lic affairs, and been productive of many mischiefs.
By the measure proposed, not even the proprietaries
can justly complain of any injury. The being ob-
liged to fulfil a fair contract is no injury. The crown
will be under no difficulty in completing the old con-
tract made with their father, as there needs no appli-
cation to Parliament for the necessary sum, since half
the quit-rents of the lower counties belongs to the
King, and the many years' arrears in the proprie-
taries' hands, who are the collectors, must vastly
exceed what they have a right to demand, or any
reason to expect. l

On the whole, I cannot but think, the more the
proposal is considered, of an humble petition to the
King to take this province under his Majesty's im-
mediate protection and government, the more unani-

1 In 1722, the arrears then in their hands were computed at £18,000
sterling.

1764] Benjamin Franklin 65

mously we shall go into it. We are chiefly people
of three countries. British spirits can no longer bear
the treatment they have received, nor will they put
on the chains prepared for them by a fellow subject.
And the Irish and Germans have felt too severely the
oppressions of hard-hearted landlords and arbitrary
princes, to wish to see, in the proprietaries of Penn-
sylvania, both the one and the other united.
I am, with much respect, Sir,

Your most obedient, humble servant,

A. B.

CCLIII

PETITION TO THE KING

FOR CHANGING THE PROPRIETARY GOVERNMENT OF PENNSYL-
VANIA INTO A ROYAL GOVERNMENT

To the King's most excellent Majesty, in Council,

The Petition of the Representatives of the Free-
men of the Province of Pennsylvania, in General
Assembly met,

Most humbly showeth :
That the government of this province by proprie-
taries has by long experience been found inconven-
ient, attended by many difficulties and obstructions
to your Majesty's service, arising from the interven-
tion of proprietary private interests in public affairs
and disputes concerning those interests.

That the said proprietary government is weak, un-
able to support its own authority, and maintain the
common internal peace of the province; great riots

VOL. IV. — 5.

66 The Works of [1764

have lately arisen therein, armed mobs marching from
place to place, and committing violent outrages and
insults on the government with impunity, to the great
terror of your Majesty's subjects. And these evils
are not likely to receive any remedy here, the con-
tinual disputes between the proprietaries and people,
and their mutual jealousies and dislikes preventing.
We do, therefore, most humbly pray, that your
Majesty would be graciously pleased to resume the
government of this province, making such compen-
sation to the proprietaries for the same as to your
Majesty's wisdom and goodness shall appear just
and equitable, and permitting your dutiful subjects
therein to enjoy, under your Majesty's more imme-
diate care and protection, the privileges that have
been granted to them by and under your royal
predecessors.

By order of the House.

CCLIV

REMARKS

ON A PARTICULAR MILITIA BILL REJECTED BY THE PROPRIE-
TOR'S DEPUTY, OR GOVERNOR

TO THE FREEMEN OF PENNSYLVANIA

Philadelphia, 28 September, 1764.

Gentlemen :

Your desire of knowing how the militia bill came
to fail, in the last assembly, shall immediately be
complied with.

1764] Benjamin Franklin 67

As the governor pressed hard for a militia law, to
secure the internal peace of the province, and the
people of this country had not been accustomed to
militia service, the House, to make it more generally
agreeable to the freeholders, formed the bill so that
they might have some share in the election of the
officers ; to secure them from having absolute stran-
gers set over them, or persons generally disagreeable.

This was no more than that every person should
choose, and recommend to the governor, three persons
for each office of captain, lieutenant, and ensign; out
of which three the governor was to commission one
that he thought most proper, or which he pleased, to
be the officer. And that the captains, lieutenants,
and ensigns, so commissioned by the governor, should,
in their respective regiments, choose and recommend
three persons for each office of colonel, lieutenant-
colonel, and major; out of which three the governor
was to commission one, whichever he pleased, to each
of the said offices.

The governor's amendment to the bill in this par-
ticular was, to strike out wholly this privilege of the
people, and to take to himself the sole appointment
of all the officers.

The next amendment was, to aggravate and en-
hance all the fines. A fine that the Assembly had
made one hundred pounds, and thought heavy
enough, the governor required to be three hundred
pounds. What they had made fifty pounds, he re-
quired to be one hundred and fifty. These were fines
on the commissioned officers for disobedience to his
commands; but the non-commissioned officers, or

68 The Works of [1764

common soldiers, whom, for the same offence, the
assembly proposed to fine at ten pounds, the gov-
ernor insisted should be fined fifty pounds.

These fines, and some others to be mentioned
hereafter, the assembly thought ruinously high. But
when, in a subsequent amendment, the governor
would, for offences among the militia, take away the
trial by jury in the common courts ; and required that
the trial should be by a court-martial, composed of
officers of his own sole appointing, who should have
power of sentencing even to death ; the House could
by no means consent thus to give up their constitu-
ents' liberty, estate, and life itself, into the absolute
power of a proprietary governor ; and so the bill failed.

That you may be assured I do not misrepresent
this matter, I shall give you the last-mentioned
amendment (so called) at full length: and for the
truth and exactness of my copy, I dare appeal to
Mr. Secretary Shippen.

The words of the bill, page 43, were: "Every
such person so offending, being legally convicted
thereof," &c. By the words legally convicted was
intended a conviction after legal trial, in the common
course of the laws of the land. But the governor
required this addition immediately to follow the
words "convicted thereof," namely, "by a court-
martial, shall suffer death, or such other punishment
as such court, by their sentence or decree, shall think
proper to inflict and pronounce. And be it farther
enacted by the authority aforesaid, that when and so
often as it may be necessary, the governor and com-
mander-in-chief for the time being shall appoint and

I764] Benjamin Franklin 69

commissionate, under the great seal of this province,
sixteen commissioned officers in each regiment ; with
authority and power to them, or any thirteen of them,
to hold courts-martial, of whom a field officer shall
always be one, and president of said court; and such
courts-martial shall and are hereby empowered to ad-
minister an oath to any witness, in order to the ex-
amination or trial of any of the offences which by this
act are made cognizable in such courts, and shall
come before them. Provided always, that, in all
trials by a court-martial by virtue of this act, every
officer present at such trial, before any proceedings
be had therein, shall take an oath upon the holy Evan-
gelists, before one justice of the peace in the county
where such court is held ; who are hereby authorized
to administer the same, in the following words, that is
to say: ' I, A B, do swear that I will duly administer
justice according to evidence, and to the directions
of an act entitled, An Act for forming and regulating
the militia of the province of Pennsylvania, without par-
tiality, favor, or affection ; and that I will not divulge
the sentence of the court, until it shall be approved
of by the governor or commander-in-chief of this pro-
vince for the time being; neither will I, upon any
account, at any time whatsoever, disclose or discover
the vote or opinion of any particular member of the
court-martial. So help me God.' And no sentence
of death, or other sentence, shall be given against any
offender, but by the concurrence of nine of the officers
so sworn. And no sentence passed against any
offender by such court-martial shall be put in execu-
tion, until report be made of the whole proceedings

jo The Works of [1764

to the governor or commander-in-chief of this pro-
vince for the time being, and his directions signified
thereupon."

It is observable here, that, by the common course
of justice, a man is to be tried by a jury of his neigh-
bours and fellows, empanelled by a sheriff, in whose
appointment the people have a choice. The prisoner
too has a right to challenge twenty of the panel, with-
out giving a reason, and as many more as he can give
reasons for challenging; and before he can be con-
victed, the jury are to be unanimous ; they are all to
agree that he is guilty, and are therefore all accounta-
ble for the verdict. But, by this amendment, the
jury (if they may be so called) are all officers of the
governor's sole appointing; and not one of them can
be challenged; and, though a common militia-man is
to be tried, no common militia-man shall be of that
jury; and, so far from requiring all to agree, a bare
majority shall be sufficient to condemn you. And,
lest that majority should be under any check or
restraint, from an apprehension of what the world
might think or say of the severity or injustice of
their sentence, an oath is to be taken, never to dis-
cover the vote or opinion of any particular member.

These are some of the chains attempted to be
forged for you by the proprietary faction ! Who ad-
vised the governor is not difficult to know. They
are the very men who now clamor at the assembly for
a proposal of bringing the trial of a particular murder
to this county from another, where it was not thought
safe for any man to be either juryman or witness,
and call it disfranchising the people, who are now

1764] Benjamin Franklin 71

bawling about the constitution, and pretending vast
concern for your liberties. In refusing you the least
means of recommending, or expressing your regard
for, persons to be placed over you as officers, and who
were thus to be made your judges in life and estate,
they have not regarded the example of the King, our
wise as well as kind master; who, in all his requisi-
tions made to the colonies, of raising troops for their
defence, directed, that, " the better to facilitate the
important service, the commissions should be given
to such as, from their weight and credit with the
people, may be best enabled to effectuate the levies." *
In establishing a militia for the defence of the pro-
vince, how could the "weight and credit" of men
with the people be better discovered, than by the
mode that bill directed, namely, by a majority of
those that were to be commanded, nominating three
for each office to the governor, of which three he
might take the one he liked best ?

However, the courts-martial being established, and
all of us thus put into his Honor's absolute power,
the governor goes on to enhance the fines and penal-
ties. Thus, in page 49 of the bill, where the assem-
bly had proposed the fine to be ten shillings, the
governor required it to be ten pounds. In page 50,
where a fine of five pounds was mentioned, the gov-
ernor's amendment required it to be made fifty
pounds. And, in page 44, where the assembly had
said, " shall forfeit and pay any sum, not exceed-
ing five pounds," the governor's amendment says,
" shall suffer death, or such other punishment as shall,

1 See Secretary of State's Letters in the printed Votes.

72 The Works of [1764

according to the nature of the offence, be inflicted
by the sentence of a court-martial."

The assembly's refusing to admit of these amend-
ments in that bill, is one of their offences against the
lord proprietary, for which that faction are now
abusing them in both the languages * of the province,
with all the virulence that reverend malice can dic-
tate; enforced by numberless barefaced falsehoods,
that only the most dishonest and base would dare to
invent, and none but the most weak and credulous
can possibly believe.

Veritas.

CCLV

PREFACE

TO THE SPEECH OF JOSEPH GALLOWAY, ON THE SUBJECT OP A
PETITION TO THE KING FOR CHANGING THE PROPRIETARY
GOVERNMENT OF PENNSYLVANIA TO A ROYAL GOVERN-
MENT 2

It is not merely because Mr. Dickinson's speech
was ushered into the world by a preface, that one is
made to this of Mr. Galloway. But, as in that pre-

1 That is, the English and German languages, both of which were
used in Pennsylvania. — Editor.

2 While the petition to the king for a royal government in Pennsyl-
vania was under discussion in the Assembly, Mr. John Dickinson made
a speech against it, which was printed in a pamphlet, with a long
preface by another hand. Mr. Galloway published a reply, entitled,
The Speech of Joseph Galloway, One of the Members for Philadelphia
County, in answer to the Speech of John Dickinson, delivered in the
House of Assembly of the Province of Pennsylvania, May 24th, 1764."
To this reply was prefixed this Preface, written by Dr. Franklin. —
Editor.

1764] Benjamin Franklin 73

face a number of aspersions were thrown on our
assemblies, and their proceedings grossly misrepre-
sented, it was thought necessary to wipe those asper-
sions off by some proper animadversions, and, by a
true state of facts, to rectify those misrepresentations.

The preface begins with saying, that "Governor
Denny (whose administration will never be men-
tioned but with disgrace in the annals of this pro-
vince) was induced by considerations, to which the
world is now no stranger, to pass sundry acts," &c,
thus insinuating that by some unusual base bargain,
secretly made but afterwards discovered, he was
induced to pass them.

It is fit, therefore, without undertaking to justify
all that governor's administration, to show what those
considerations were. Ever since the revenue of the
quit-rents first, and after that the revenue of tavern-
licenses, were settled irrevocably on our proprietors
and governors, they have looked on those incomes as
their proper estate, for which they were under no
obligations to the people ; and when they afterwards
concurred in passing any useful laws, they considered
them as so many jobs, for which they ought to be
particularly paid. Hence arose the custom of pres-
ents twice a year to the governors, at the close of
each session in which laws were passed, given at the
time of passing; they usually amounted to a thou-
sand pounds per annum. But when the governors
and assemblies disagreed, so that laws were not
passed, the presents were withheld. When a disposi-
tion to agree ensued, there sometimes still remained
some diffidence. The governors would not pass the

74 The Works of [1764

laws that were wanted, without being sure of the
money, even all that they called their arrears; nor
the assemblies give the money without being sure of
the laws. Thence the necessity of some private con-
ference, in which mutual assurances of good faith
might be received and given, that the transactions
should go hand in hand. What name the impartial
reader will give to this kind of commerce, I cannot
say. To me it appears an extortion of more money
from the people, for that to which they had before an
undoubted right, both by the constitution and by
purchase ; but there was no other shop they could go
to for the commodity they wanted, and they were
obliged to comply. Time established the custom,
and made it seem honest; so that our governors,
even those of the most undoubted honor, have
practised it.

Governor Thomas, after a long misunderstanding
with the assembly, went more openly to work with
them in managing this commerce, and they with him.
The fact is curious, as it stands recorded in the votes
of 1742-3. Sundry bills sent up to the governor for
his assent had lain long in his hands, without any
answer. January 4th, the House "Ordered, That
Thomas Leech and Edward Warner wait upon the
governor, and acquaint him, that the House had long
waited for his result on the bills that lie before him,
and desire to know when they may expect it." The
gentlemen return and report, ''That they waited
upon the governor, and delivered the message of the
House according to order ; and that the governor was
pleased to say, ' He had had the bills long under con-

1764] Benjamin Franklin 75

sideration, and waited the result of the House.' "
The House well understood this hint; and immedi-
ately resolved into a committee of the whole House,
to take what was called the governor's support into
consideration, in which they made (the minutes say)
some progress; and the next morning, it appears, that
that progress, whatever it was, had been communi-
cated to him, for he sent them down this message by
his secretary: "Mr. Speaker, The governor com-
mands me to acquaint you that, as he has received
assurances of a good disposition in the House, he
thinks it incumbent on him to show the like on his
part; and therefore sends down the bills, which lay
before him, without any amendment."

As this message only showed a good disposition,
but contained no promise to pass the bills, the House
seem to have had their doubts; and, therefore, Feb-
ruary 2d, when they came to resolve, on the report of
the grand committee, to give the money, they guarded
their resolves very cautiously, to wit: "Resolved,
That, on the passage of such bills as now lie before the
governor (the naturalization bill, and such other bills
as may be presented to him during this sitting), there
be paid him the sum of five hundred pounds. Re-
solved also, that, on the passage of such bills as now
lie before the governor (the naturalization bill, and
such other bills as may be presented to him this
sitting), there be paid to the governor the further
sum of one thousand pounds, for the current year's
support; and that orders be drawn on the treasurer
and trustees of the loan-office, pursuant to these re-
solves." The orders were accordingly drawn; with

76 The Works of [1764

which being acquainted, he appointed a time to pass
the bills; which was done with one hand, while he
received the orders in the other; and then, with the
utmost politeness he thanked the House for the
fifteen hundred pounds, as if it had been a pure free
gift, and a mere mark of their respect and affection.
"I thank you, Gentlemen," says he, "for this in-
stance of your regard, which I am the more pleased
with, as it gives an agreeable prospect of future har-
mony between me and the representatives of the
people."

This, reader, is an exact counterpart of the trans-
action with Governor Denny; except that Denny
sent word to the House, that he would pass the bills
before they voted the support. And yet here was no
proprietary clamor about bribery, &c. And why so ?
Why, at that time, the proprietary family, by virtue
of a secret bond they had obtained of the governor at
his appointment, were to share with him the sums so
obtained of the people.

This reservation of the proprietaries they were at
that time a little ashamed of, and therefore such
bonds were then to be secrets. But as in every kind
of sinning frequent repetition lessens shame and in-
creases boldness, we find the proprietaries ten years
afterwards openly insisting on these advantages to
themselves, over and above what was paid to their
deputy; "Wherefore," say they,1 "on this occasion
it is necessary that we inform the people, through
yourselves, their representatives, that, as by the con-
stitution our consent is necessary to their laws, at the

1 That is, to the assembly. — B. V.

1764] Benjamin Franklin 77

same time that they have an undoubted right to such
as are necessary for the defence and real service of
the country, so it will tend the better to facilitate the
several matters, which must be transacted with us,
for their representatives to show a regard to us and
our interest."

This was in their answer to the representation of
the assembly (Votes, December, 1754, p. 48) on the
justice of their contributing to Indian expenses,
which they had refused. And on this clause the
committee make the following remark : " They tell us
their consent is necessary to our laws, and that it will
tend the better to facilitate the matters which must
be transacted with them for the representatives to
show a regard to their interest; that is (as we under-
stand it), though the proprietaries have a deputy
here, supported by the province, who is, or ought to
be, fully empowered to pass all laws necessary for
the service of the country, yet, before we can obtain
such laws, we must facilitate their passage by paying
money for the proprietaries, which they ought to pay,
or in some shape make it their particular interest to
pass them. We hope, however, that if this practice
has ever been begun it will never be continued in this
province, and that since, as this very paragraph al-
lows, we have an undoubted right to such laws, we
shall always be able to obtain them from the goodness
of our sovereign without going to market for them to
a subject." Time has shown that those hopes were
vain; they have been obliged to go to that market
ever since, directly or indirectly, or go without their
laws. The practice has continued, and will continue,

78 The Works of [1764

as long as the proprietary government subsists, inter-
vening between the crown and the people.

Do not, my courteous reader, take pet at our pro-
prietary constitution for these our bargain and sale
proceedings in legislation. It is a happy country
where justice, and what was your own before, can be
had for ready money. It is another addition to the
value of money, and, of course, another spur to in-
dustry. Every land is not so blessed. There are
countries where the princely proprietor claims to be
lord of all property, where what is your own shall not
only be wrested from you, but the money you give
to have it restored shall be kept with it, and your of-
fering so much, being a sign of your being too rich,
you shall be plundered of every thing that remained.
These times are not come here yet. Your present pro-
prietors have never been more unreasonable hitherto
than barely to insist on your fighting in defence of
their property, and paying the expense yourselves;
or if their estates must, ah ! must, be taxed towards
it, that the best of their lands shall be taxed no higher
than the worst of yours.

Pardon this digression, and I return to Governor
Denny. But first let me do Governor Hamilton the
justice to observe that whether from the uprightness
of his own disposition, or from the odious light the
practice had been set in on Denny's account, or from
both, he did not attempt these bargains, but passed
such laws as he thought fit to pass without any pre-
vious stipulation of pay for them. But then, when he
saw the assembly tardy in the payment he expected,
and yet calling upon him still to pass more laws, he

1764] Benjamin Franklin 79

openly put them in mind of the money as a debt due
to him from custom. " In the course of the present
year," says he, in his message of July 8th, 1763, "a
great deal of public business hath been transacted by
me, and I believe as many useful laws enacted as by
any of my predecessors in the same space of time;
yet I have not understood that any allowance hath
hitherto been made to me for my support, as hath
been customary in this province."

The House, having then some bills in hand, took
the matter into immediate consideration, and voted
him five hundred pounds, for which an order or cer-
tificate was accordingly drawn ; and on the same day
the Speaker, after the House had been with the gov-
ernor, reported, " That his Honor had been pleased
to give his assent to the bills, by enacting the same
into laws. And Mr. Speaker farther reported, that
he had then, in behalf of the House, presented their
certificate of five hundred pounds to the Governor;
who was pleased to say, he was obliged to the House
for the same." Thus we see the practice of purchas-
ing and paying for laws is interwoven with our pro-
prietary constitution, used in the best times, and
under the best governors. And yet, alas, poor as-
sembly! how will you steer your brittle bark be-
tween these rocks ? If you pay ready money for your
laws, and those laws are not liked by the proprie-
taries, you are charged with bribery and corruption ;
if you wait a while before you pay, you are accused
of detaining the governor's customary right, and
dunned as a negligent or dishonest debtor, that
refuses to discharge a just debt.

80 The Works of [1764

But Governor Denny's case, I shall be told, differs
from all these; for the acts he was induced to pass
were, as the Prefacer tells us, " contrary to his duty,
and to every tie of honor and justice." Such is the
imperfection of our language, and perhaps of all
other languages, that, notwithstanding we are fur-
nished with dictionaries innumerable, we cannot pre-
cisely know the import of words, unless we know of
what party the man is that uses them. In the mouth
of an assemblyman, or true Pennsylvanian, " con-
trary to his duty and to every tie of honor and
justice," would mean, the governor's long refusal to
pass laws, however just and necessary, for taxing
the proprietary estate ; a refusal contrary to the trust
reposed in the lieutenant-governor by the royal
charter; to the rights of the people, whose welfare it
was his duty to promote; and to the nature of the
contract made between the governor and the gov-
erned, when the quit-rents and license fees were
established, which confirmed what the proprietaries
call our " undoubted right" to necessary laws. But,
in the mouth of the proprietaries, or their creatures,
" contrary to his duty, and to every tie of justice and
honor," means, his passing laws contrary to proprie-
tary instructions and contrary to the bonds he
had previously given to observe those instructions;
instructions, however, that were unjust and uncon-
stitutional; and bonds, that were illegal and void
from the beginning.

Much has been said of the wickedness of Governor
Denny in passing, and the assembly in prevailing
with him to pass, those acts. By the Prefacer's

1764] Benjamin Franklin 81

account of them, you would think that the laws so
obtained were all bad; for he speaks of but seven, of
which six, he says, were repealed, and the seventh
reported to be "fundamentally wrong and unjust,"
and " ought to be repealed, unless six certain amend-
ments were made therein." ' Whereas, in fact, there
were nineteen of them; and several of those must
have been good laws, for even the proprietaries did
not object to them. Of the eleven that they op-
posed, only six were repealed ; so that it seems these
good gentlemen may themselves be sometimes as
wrong in opposing, as the assembly in enacting, laws.
But the words "fundamentally wrong and unjust"
are the great fund of triumph to the proprietaries and
their partisans. These their subsequent governors
have unmercifully dinned in the ears of the assembly
on all occasions ever since; for they make a part of
near a dozen of their messages. They have rung the
changes on those words, till they have worked them
up to say that the law was fundamentally wrong and
unjust in six several articles; (Governor's Message,
May 17th, 1764,) instead of "ought to be repealed,
unless six alterations or amendments could be made
therein." A law unjust in six several articles must
be an unjust law indeed. Let us therefore, once for
all, examine this unjust law, article by article, in
order to see whether our assemblies have been such
villains as they have been represented.

The first particular in which their lordships pro-

1 The act is entitled, "An Act for granting to his Majesty the sum of
one hundred thousand pounds ; striking the same in bills of credit, and
sinking the bills by a tax on all estates real and personal."

VOL. IV. — 6.

82 The Works of [1764

posed the act should be amended was, " That the real
estates to be taxed be defined with precision; so as
not to include the unsurveyed waste land belonging
to the proprietaries." This was, at most, but an ob-
scurity to be cleared up ; and, though the law might
well appear to their lordships uncertain in that par-
ticular, with us, who better know our own customs,
and that the proprietaries' waste unsurveyed land
was never here considered among estates real, subject
to taxation ; there was not the least doubt or supposi-
tion that such lands were included in the words " all
estates real and personal." The agents, therefore,1
knowing that the assembly had no intention to tax
those lands, might well suppose that they would
readily agree to remove the obscurity.

Before we go farther, let it be observed, that the
main design of the proprietaries in opposing this act
was, to prevent their estates being taxed at all. But,
as they knew that the doctrine of the proprietary
exemption, which they had endeavored to enforce
here, could not be supported there, they bent their
whole strength against the act on other principles to
procure its repeal; pretending great willingness to
submit to an equitable tax, but that the assembly
(out of mere malice, because they had conscientiously
quitted Quakerism for the church) were wickedly de-
termined to ruin them, to tax all their unsurveyed
wilderness lands, and at the highest rates; and by
that means exempt themselves and the people, and

1 The agents in England, whither the laws were sent to receive the
king's assent. Franklin was one of the agents in that country at the
time the laws in question were sent out for approval. — Editor.

1764] Benjamin Franklin 83

throw the whole burden of the war on the proprietary
family.

How foreign these charges were from the truth,
need not be told to any man in Pennsylvania. And,
as the proprietors knew, that the hundred thousand
pounds of paper money, struck for the defence of
their enormous estates, with others, was actually
issued, spread through the country, and in the hands
of thousands of poor people, who had given their
labor for it, how base, cruel, and inhuman it was to
endeavor, by a repeal of the act, to strike the money
dead in those hands at one blow, and reduce it all to
waste paper; to the utter confusion of all trade and
dealings, and the ruin of multitudes, merely to avoid
paying their own just tax; — words may be wanting
to express, but minds will easily conceive, and never
without abhorrence.

The second amendment proposed by their lordships
was: " That the located uncultivated lands belonging
to the proprietaries shall not be assessed higher than
the lowest rate at which any located uncultivated
lands belonging to the inhabitants shall be assessed."
Had there been any provision in the act, that the
proprietaries' lands and those of the people, of the
same value, should be taxed differently, the one high
and the other low, the act might well have been called
in this particular " fundamentally wrong and unjust."
But, as there is no such clause, this cannot be one of
the particulars on which the charge is founded ; but,
like the first, is merely a requisition to make the act
clear; by express directions therein, that the pro-
prietaries' estate should not be, as they pretended to

84 The Works of [1764

believe it would be, taxed higher in proportion to its
value than the estates of others. As to their present
claim, founded on that article, "that the best and
most valuable of their lands should be taxed no
higher than the worst and least valuable of the peo-
ple's," it was not then thought of ; they made no such
demand ; nor did any one dream that so iniquitous a
claim would ever be made by men who had the least
pretence to the characters of honorable and honest.

The third particular was: "That all lands, not
granted by the proprietaries within boroughs and
towns, be deemed located uncultivated lands, and
rated accordingly, and not as lots." The clause in
the act that this relates to is: "And whereas many
valuable lots of ground within the city of Philadel-
phia and the several boroughs and towns within this
province remain unimproved; be it enacted, &c,
that all such unimproved lots of ground within the
city and boroughs aforesaid shall be rated and as-
sessed according to their situation and value, for and
towards raising the money hereby granted." The
reader will observe, that the word is, all unimproved
lots ; and that all comprehends the lots belonging to
the people, as well as those of the proprietary. There
were many of the former; and a number belonging
even to members of the then assembly; and, con-
sidering the value, the tax must be proportionably as
grievous to them, as the proprietary's to him.

Is there among us a single man, even a proprietary
relation, officer, or dependant, so insensible of the dif-
ferences of right and wrong, and so confused in his
notions of just and unjust, as to think and say, that

1764] Benjamin Franklin 85

the act in this particular was " fundamentally wrong
and unjust " ? I believe not one. What, then, could
their lordships mean by the proposed amendment?
Their meaning is easily explained. The proprie-
taries have considerable tracts of land within the
bounds of boroughs and towns, that have not yet
been divided into lots. They pretended to believe,
that by virtue of this clause an imaginary division
would be made of those lands into lots, and an ex-
travagant value set on such imaginary lots, greatly
to their prejudice. It was answered, that no such
thing was intended by the act; and that by "lots"
was meant only such ground as had been surveyed
and divided into lots, and not the open undivided
lands. If this only is intended, say their lordships,
then let the act be amended, so as clearly to express
what is intended. This is the full amount of the
third particular. How the act was understood here,
is well known by the execution of it, before the dis-
pute came on in England, and therefore before their
lordships' opinion on the point could be given; of
which full proof shall presently be made. In the
meantime it appears, that the act was not on this
account "fundamentally wrong and unjust."

The fourth particular is: "That the governor's
consent and approbation be made necessary to every
issue and application of the money, to be raised by
virtue of such act." The assembly intended this,
and thought they had done it in the act. The words
of the clause being: "That [the commissioners
named], or the major part of them, or of the surviv-
ors of them, with the consent or approbation of the

86 The Works of [1764

governor or commander-in-chief of this province for
the time being, shall order and appoint the dispositions
of the moneys arising by virtue of this act, for and
towards paying and clothing two thousand seven
hundred effective men," &c. It was understood
here, that as the power of disposing was expressly to
be with the consent and approbation of the governor,
the commissioners had no power to dispose of the
money without that approbation. But their lord-
ships, jealous (as their station requires) of this pre-
rogative of the crown, and being better acquainted
with the force and weakness of law expression, did
not think the clause explicit enough, unless the words
" and not otherwise " were added, or some other words
equivalent. This particular, therefore, was no more
than another requisition of greater clearness and
precision, and by no means a foundation for the
charge of "fundamentally wrong and unjust."

The fifth particular was: "That provincial com-
missioners be named, to hear and determine appeals,
brought on the part of the inhabitants, as well as the
proprietaries." There was already subsisting a pro-
vision for the appointment of county commissioners
of appeal, by whom the act might be, and actually
has been (as we shall presently show), justly and im-
partially executed with regard to the proprietaries;
but provincial commissioners appointed in the act it
was thought might be of use in regulating and equal-
izing the modes of assessment of different counties
where they were unequal, and, by affording a second
appeal, tend more to the satisfaction both of the
proprietaries and the people. This particular was,

1764] Benjamin Franklin 87

therefore, a mere proposed improvement of the act;
which could not be, and was not, in this respect, de-
nominated "fundamentally wrong and unjust."

We have now gone through five of the six pro-
posed amendments, without discovering any thing
on which that censure could be founded; but the
sixth remains, which points at a part of the act
wherein we must candidly acknowledge there is
something that, in their lordships' view of it, must
justify their judgment. The words of the sixth ar-
ticle are: " That the payments by the tenants to the
proprietaries of their rents shall be according to the
term of their respective grants; as if such act had
never been passed." This relates to that clause of
the act by which the paper money was made a legal
tender in " discharge of all manner of debts, rents,
sum and sums of money whatsoever, &c, at the rates
ascertained in the act of Parliament made in the sixth
of Queen Anne."

From the great injustice frequently done to credit-
ors, and complained of from the colonies, by the
vast depreciation of paper bills, it was become a
general fixed principle with the ministry, that such
bills (whose value though fixed in the act, could not
be kept fixed by the act) ought not to be made a
legal tender in any colony at those rates. The Par-
liament had before passed an act to take that tender
away in the four New England colonies, and have
since made the act general. This was what their
lordships would therefore have proposed for the
amendment. But, it being represented that the
chief support of the credit of the bills was the legal

88 The Works of [1764

tender, and that without it they would become of no
value, it was allowed generally to remain, with an ex-
ception to the proprietaries' rents, where there was a
special contract for payment in another coin. It
cannot be denied but that this was doing justice to
the proprietaries ; and that had the requisition been
in favor of all other creditors also, the justice had
been equal, as being general. We do not therefore
presume to impeach their lordship's judgment, that
the act, as it enforced the acceptance of bills for
money at a value which they had only nominally, and
not really, was in that respect " fundamentally wrong
and unjust."

And yet we believe the reader will not think the
assembly so much to blame, when he considers that
the making paper bills a legal tender had been the
universal mode in America for more than threescore
years; that there was scarce a colony that had not
practised that mode more or less; that it had always
been thought absolutely necessary, in order to give
the bills a credit, and thereby obtain from them the
uses of money; that the inconveniences were there-
fore submitted to, for the sake of the greater conven-
iences; that acts innumerable of the like kind had
been approved by the crown; and that, if the assem-
bly made the bills a legal tender at those rates to the
proprietaries, they made them also a legal tender to
themselves, and all their constituents, many of whom
might surfer in their rents, &c, as much in proportion
to their estates as the proprietaries.

But, if he cannot on these considerations quite ex-
cuse the assembly, what will he think of those hon-

1764] Benjamin Franklin 89

orable proprietaries, who, when paper money was
issued in their colony for the common defence of their
vast estates with those of the people, and who must
therefore reap at least equal advantages from those
bills with the people, could nevertheless wish to be
exempted from their share of the unavoidable disad-
vantages. Is there upon earth a man besides, with
any conception of what is honest, with any notion of
honor, with the least tincture in his veins of the gen-
tleman, but would have blushed at the thought, but
would have rejected with disdain such undue prefer-
ence, if it had been offered him? Much less would
he have struggled for it, moved heaven and earth to
obtain it, resolved to ruin thousands of his tenants by
a repeal of the act, rather than miss of it,1 and en-
force it afterwards by an audaciously wicked instruc-
tion; forbidding aids to his King, and exposing the
province to destruction, unless it was complied with.
And yet, these are honorable men.2

Here, then, we have had a full view of the assem-
bly's injustice, about which there has been so much

1 This would have been done, and the money all sunk in the hands
of the people, if the agents, Benjamin Franklin and Robert Charles,
had not interposed, and voluntarily, without authority from the As-
sembly so to do, but at their own risk, undertaken that those amend-
ments should be made, or that they themselves would indemnify the
proprietaries from any damages they might sustain for want thereof.
An action which, as the Prefacer says in another case, "posterity per-
haps may find a name for."

2 It is not easy to guess from what source our proprietaries have
drawn their principles. Those who study law and justice, as a science,
have established it a maxim in equity, "Qui sentit commodum, sentire
debet et onus." And so consistent is this with the common sense of
mankind, that even our lowest untaught cobblers and porters feel the
force of it in their own maxim (which they are honest enough never to
dispute), "Touch pot, touch penny."

90 The Works of [1764

insolent triumph. But let the proprietaries and their
discreet deputies hereafter recollect and remember,
that the same august tribunal, which censured some
of the modes and circumstances of that act, did at the
same time establish and confirm the grand principle
of the act, namely: "That the proprietary estate
ought, with other estates, to be taxed " ; and thereby
did, in effect, determine and pronounce, that the
opposition so long made in various shapes to that
just principle, by the proprietaries, was "fundamen-
tally wrong and unjust." An injustice they were not,
like the assembly, under any necessity of committing
for the public good ; or any other necessity, but what
was imposed on them by those base passions that act
the tyrant in bad minds — their selfishness, their pride,
and their avarice.

I have frequently mentioned the equitable inten-
tions of the House in those parts of the act that were
supposed obscure, and how they were understood
here. A clear proof thereof is found, as I have
already said, in the actual execution of the act ; in the
execution of it before the contest about it in England,
and therefore before their lordships' objections to it
had a being. When the report came over, and was
laid before the House, one year's tax had been levied,
and the assembly, conscious that no injustice had
been intended to the proprietaries, and willing to
rectify it if any should appear, appointed a committee
of members from the several counties to examine into
the state of the proprietaries' taxes throughout the
province, and nominated on that committee a gentle-
man of known attachment to the proprietaries, and

i764] Benjamin Franklin 91

their chief justice, Mr. Allen, to the end that the
strictest inquiry might be made. Their report was
as follows :

" We, the committee appointed to inquire into and
consider the state of the proprietary taxation through
the several counties, and report the same to the
House, have, in pursuance of the said appointment,
carefully examined the returns of property, and com-
pared them with the respective assessments thereon
made through the whole province, and find —

" First, that no part of the unsurveyed waste lands
belonging to the proprietaries, have, in any instance,
been included in the estates taxed.

"Secondly, that some of the located uncultivated
lands belonging to the proprietaries, in several coun-
ties, remain unassessed; and are not in any county
assessed higher than the lands under like circum-
stances belonging to the inhabitants.

"Thirdly, that all lands not granted by the pro-
prietaries, within boroughs and towns, remain un-
taxed, excepting in a few instances, and in those they
are rated as low as the lands which are granted in the
said boroughs and towns.

"The whole of the proprietary tax of eighteen
pence in the pound, amounts to £566 45. lod. And
the sum of the tax on the inhabitants for the same
year amounts, through the several counties, to £27,-
1 03 1 25. 8 d. And it is the opinion of your committee
that there has not been any injustice done to the
proprietaries, or attempts made to rate or assess any
part of their estates higher than the estates of the

92 The Works of [1764

like kind belonging to the inhabitants are rated and
assessed; but, on the contrary, we find that their
estates are rated, in many instances, below others.
" Thomas Leech, George Ashbridge,

Joseph Fox, Emanuel Carpenter,

Samuel Rhoads, John Blackburn,

Abraham Chapman, William Allen."

The House communicated this report to Governor
Hamilton, when he afterwards pressed them to make
the stipulated act of amendment ; acquainting him,
at the same time, that, as in the execution of the act
no injustice had hitherto been done to the proprie-
tary, so, by a yearly inspection of the assessments,
they would take care that none should be done him ;
for that, if any should appear, or the governor could
at any time point out to them any that had been
done, they would immediately rectify it ; and there-
fore, as the act was shortly to expire, they did not
think the amendments necessary. Thus that matter
ended during that administration.

And had his successor, Governor Penn, permitted
it still to sleep, we are of opinion it had been more to
the honor of the family, and of his own discretion.
But he was pleased to found upon it a claim mani-
festly unjust, and which he was totally destitute of
reason to support. A claim that the proprietaries'
best and most valuable located uncultivated lands
should be taxed no higher than the worst and least
valuable of those belonging to the inhabitants; to
enforce which, as he thought the words of one of the
stipulations seemed to give some countenance to it,

1764] Benjamin Franklin 93

he insisted on using those very words as sacred;
from which he could, "neither in decency or in
duty," deviate; though he had agreed to deviate
from words in the same report, and therefore equally
sacred in every other instance. A conduct which
will (as the Prefacer says in Governor Denny's case)
for ever disgrace the annals of his administration.1

Never did any administration open with a more
promising prospect than this of Governor Penn. He
assured the people in his first speeches of the pro-
prietaries' paternal regard for them, and their sincere
dispositions to do every thing that might promote
their happiness. As the proprietaries had been
pleased to appoint a son of the family to the govern-
ment, it was thought not unlikely that there might be
something in these professions ; for that they would
probably choose to have his administration made
easy and agreeable, and to that end might think it
prudent to withdraw those harsh, disagreeable, and
unjust instructions with which most of his predeces-
sors had been hampered.

The assembly, therefore, believed fully, and re-
joiced sincerely. They showed the new governor
every mark of respect and regard that was in their
power. They readily and cheerfully went into every
thing he recommended to them. And when he and
his authority were insulted and endangered by a law-
less, murdering mob, they and their friends took arms
at his call, and formed themselves round him for his
defence and the support of his government.

1 For a fuller account of this dispute the reader is referred to the
newspapers, and votes of assembly.

94 The Works of [1764

But when it was found that those mischievous in-
structions still subsisted, and were even farther ex-
tended; when the governor began, unprovoked, to
send the House affronting messages, seizing every
imaginable occasion of reflecting on their conduct;
when every other symptom appeared of fixed, deep-
rooted, family malice, which could but a little while
bear the unnatural covering that had been thrown
over it, what wonder is it if all the old wounds broke
out and bled afresh ; if all the old grievances, still un-
redressed, were recollected; if despair succeeded of
seeing any peace with a family that could make such
returns to all their overtures of kindness. And when,
in the very proprietary council, composed of staunch
friends of the family, and chosen for their attach-
ment to it, it was observed that the old men (1 Kings,
ch. xii.) withdrew themselves, finding their opinion
slighted, and that all measures were taken by the ad-
vice of two or three young men (one of whom too
denies his share in them); is it any wonder, since
like causes produce like effects, if the assembly, not-
withstanding all their veneration for the first proprie-
tor, should say, with the children of Israel under the
same circumstances: "What portion have we in
David, or inheritance in the son of Jesse? To your
tents, O Israel!"

Under these circumstances, and a conviction, that,
while so many natural sources of difference subsisted
between proprietaries and people, no harmony in gov-
ernment could long subsist (without which neither the
commands of the crown could be executed, nor the
public good promoted), the House resumed the con-

1764] Benjamin Franklin 95

sideration of a measure that had often been proposed
in former assemblies; a measure that every proprie-
tary province in America had, from the same causes,
found themselves obliged to take, and had actually
taken, or were about to take ; and a measure that had
happily succeeded wherever it was taken ; I mean the
recourse to an immediate royal government.

They, therefore, after a thorough debate, and mak-
ing no less than twenty-five unanimous resolves, ex-
pressing the many grievances this province had long
labored under, through the proprietary government,
came to the following resolution, viz.: "Resolved,
nemine contradicente, that this House will adjourn, in
order to consult their constituents, whether an hum-
ble address should be drawn up and transmitted to
his Majesty; praying that he would be graciously
pleased to take the people of this province under
his immediate protection and government; by com-
pleting the agreement heretofore made with the first
proprietary for the sale of the government to the
crown, or otherwise, as to his wisdom and goodness
shall seem meet." 1

This they ordered to be made public, and it was
published accordingly in all the newspapers. The
House then adjourned for no less than seven weeks,
to give their constituents time to consider the matter,

1 These words, "by completing the agreement," &c, are omitted by
the honest Prefacer, in his account of the resolve, that they might not
interfere with his insinuation of the measure's being impracticable;
"Have the proprietors, by any act of theirs, forfeited the least title
of what was granted them by his Majesty's royal ancestors? Or can
they be deprived of their charter rights without their consent," &c,
sensible that these questions are impertinent, if those rights are al-
ready sold?

96 The Works of [1764

and themselves an opportunity of taking their opin-
ion and advice. Could any thing be more deliberate,
more fair and open, or more respectful to the people
that chose them? During this recess, the people in
many places held little meetings with each other ; the
result of which was, that they would manifest their
sentiments to their representatives, by petitioning
the crown directly of themselves, and requesting the
assembly to transmit and support those petitions.
At the next meeting many of these petitions were de-
livered to the House with that request; they were
signed by a very great number l of the most substan-
tial inhabitants; and not the least intimation was
received by the assembly from any other of their

1 The Prefacer, with great art, endeavours to represent this number
as insignificant. He says the petitioners were but three thousand five
hundred, and that the province contains near three hundred thousand
souls. His reader is to imagine that two hundred and ninety-six thou-
sand five hundred of them were applied to, and refused to sign it. The
truth is, that his number of souls is vastly exaggerated. The dwelling-
houses in the province, in 1752, did not exceed twenty thousand.
Political arithmeticians reckon generally but five souls to a house, one
house with another; and, therefore, allowing for houses since built,
there are not probably more than a hundred and ten thousand souls in
the province; that of these, scarce twenty- two thousand could with
any propriety be petitioners. And, considering the scattered settle-
ment of the province, the general inattention of mankind, especially in
new countries, to public affairs, and the indefatigable pains taken by
proprietaries' new allies, the Presbyterian clergy of Philadelphia (who
wrote circular letters to every congregation in the county, to deter
them from petitioning, by dutiful intimations, that if we were reduced
to a royal government, it would be the "ruin of the province"), it is a
wonder the number (near a sixth part) was so great as it was. But if
there had been no such petitions, it would not have been material
to the point. The assembly went upon another foundation. They
had adjourned to consult their constituents; they returned satisfied
that the measure was agreeable to them, and nothing appeared to the
contrary.

1764] Benjamin Franklin 97

constituents, that the method was disapproved ; ex-
cept in a petition from an obscure township in Lan-
caster county, to which there were about forty
names indeed, but all evidently signed by three
hands only.

What could the assembly infer from the expressed
willingness of a part, and silence of the rest, but that
the measure was universally agreeable? They ac-
cordingly resumed the consideration of it; and,
though a small, very small opposition then appeared
to it in the House, yet, as even that was founded, not
on the impropriety of the thing, but on the supposed
unsuitableness of the time or the manner, and a
majority of nine tenths being still for it, a petition
was drawn, agreeable to the former resolve, and
ordered to be transmitted to his Majesty.

But the Prefacer tells us, that these petitioners for a
change were a " number of rash, ignorant, and incon-
siderate people," and generally of a low rank. To be
sure they were not of the proprietary officers, de-
pendants, or expectants, and those are chiefly the
people of high rank among us ; but they were other-
wise generally men of the best estates in the province,
and men of reputation. The assembly, who come
from all parts of the country, and therefore may be
supposed to know them, at least as well as the Pre-
facer, have given that testimony of them. But what
is the testimony of the assembly, who, in his opinion
are equally rash, ignorant, and inconsiderate with the
petitioners? And, if his judgment is right, how im-
prudently and contrary to their charter have his
three hundred thousand souls acted in their elections

VOL. IV. — 7.

98 The Works of [1764

of assembly men, these twenty years past; for the
charter requires them to choose men of most note for
virtue, wisdom, and ability.

But these are qualities engrossed it seems by the
proprietary party. For, they say: "The wiser and
better part of the province had far different notions of
this measure ; they considered that the moment they
put their hands to these petitions they might be sur-
rendering up their birthright." I felicitate them on
the honor they have thus bestowed upon themselves ;
on the sincere compliments thus given and accepted ;
and on their having with such noble freedom dis-
carded the snivelling pretence to modesty, couched
in that threadbare form of words, " Though we say it,
that should not say it." But is it not surprising
that, during the seven weeks' recess of the assembly,
expressly to consult their constituents on the expedi-
ency of this measure, and during the fourteen days
the House sat deliberating on it after they met again,
these their wisdoms and betternesses should never be
so kind as to communicate the least scrap of their
prudence, their knowledge, or their consideration to
their rash, ignorant, and inconsiderate representa-
tives ? Wisdom in the mind is not like money in the
purse, diminished by communication to others ; they
might have lighted up our farthing candles for us,
without lessening the blaze of their own flambeaux.
But they suffered our representatives to go on in the
dark till the fatal deed was done ; and the petition
sent to the King, praying him to take the govern-
ment of this province into his immediate care ; where-
by, if it succeeds, " our glorious plan of public liberty

i764] Benjamin Franklin 99

and charter of privileges is to be bartered away," and
we are to be made slaves forever. Cruel parsimony!
to refuse the charity of a little understanding, when
God had given you so much, and the assembly begged
it as an alms. 0 that you had but for once remem-
bered and observed the counsel of that wise poet,
Pope, where he says,

Be niggards of advice on no pretence;
For the worst avarice is that of sense.

In the constitution of our government and in that
of one more, there still remains a particular thing that
none of the other American governments have — to
wit, the appointment of a governor by the proprietors,
instead of an appointment by the crown. This par-
ticular in government has been found inconvenient,
attended with contentions and confusions wherever it
existed, and has therefore been gradually taken away
from colony after colony, and everywhere greatly to
the satisfaction and happiness of the people.

Our wise first proprietor and founder was fully sen-
sible of this ; and being desirous of leaving his people
happy, and preventing the mischiefs that he foresaw
must in time arise from that circumstance, if it was
continued; he determined to take it away, if possible,
during his own lifetime. They accordingly entered
into a contract for the sale of the proprietary right of
government to the crown, and annually received a
sum in part of the consideration. As he found him-
self likely to die before that contract (and with it his
plan for the happiness of his people) could be com-
pleted, he carefully made it part of his last will and

ioo The Works of [1764

testament, devising the right of the government to
two noble lords, in trust, that they should release it
to the crown. Unfortunately for us, this has never
yet been done. And this is merely what the assem-
bly now desire to have done.

Surely he that formed our constitution, must have
understood it. If he had imagined, that all our privi-
leges depended on the proprietary government, will
any one suppose that he would himself have medi-
tated the change; that he would have taken such
effectual measures as he thought them, to bring it
about speedily, whether he should live or die ? Will
any of those who now extol him so highly, charge
him at the same time with the baseness of endeavour-
ing thus to defraud his people of all the liberties and
privileges he had promised them, and by the most
solemn charters and grants assured to them, when he
engaged them to assist him in the settlement of his
province? Surely none can be so inconsistent. And
yet this proprietary right of governing or appointing
a governor has all of a sudden changed its nature;
and the preservation of it become of so much impor-
tance to the welfare of the province, that the
assembly's only petitioning to have their venerable
founder's will executed, and the contract he entered
into for the good of his people completed, is styled an
" attempt to violate the constitution for which our
fathers planted a wilderness; to barter away our
glorious plan of public liberty and charter privileges ;
a risking of the whole constitution ; an offering up our
whole charter rights; a wanton sporting with things
sacred," &c.

1764] Benjamin Franklin 101

Pleasant surely it is to hear the proprietary parti-
sans, of all men, brawling for the constitution, and
affecting a terrible concern for our liberties and privi-
leges. They, who have been these twenty years
cursing our constitution, declaring that it was no
constitution, or worse than none; and that things
could never be well with us till it was new modelled,
and made exactly conformable to the British consti-
tution; they who have treated our distinguishing
privileges as so many illegalities and absurdities;
who have solemnly declared in print, that, though
such privileges might be proper in the infancy of
a colony to encourage its settlement, they became
unfit for it in its grown state, and ought to be taken
away; they who, by numberless falsehoods, propa-
gated with infinite industry in the mother country,
attempted to procure an act of Parliament for the
actual depriving a very great part of the people of
their privileges; they, too, who have already de-
prived the whole people of some of their most im-
portant rights, and are daily endeavouring to deprive
them of the rest; are these become patriots and
advocates of our constitution? Wonderful change!
Astonishing conversion! Will the wolves then pro-
tect the sheep, if they can but persuade them to give up
their dogs ? Yes ; the assembly would destroy all their
own rights and those of the people, and the proprie-
tary partisans are become the champions for liberty.
Let those who have faith now make use of it ; for, if
it is rightly defined " the evidence of things not seen,"
certainly never was there more occasion for such evi-
dence, the case being totally destitute of all other.

102 The Works of [1764

It has been long observed that men are, with that
party, angels or demons, just as they happen to con-
cur with or oppose their measures. And I mention it
for the comfort of old sinners, that in politics, as well
as in religion, repentance and amendment, though
late, shall obtain forgiveness and procure favor.
Witness the late Speaker, Mr. Norris; a steady and
constant opposer of all the proprietary encroach-
ments, and whom, for thirty years past, they have
been therefore continually abusing, allowing him no
one virtue or good quality whatsoever; but now, as
he showed some unwillingness to engage in this pres-
ent application to the crown, he is become all at once
the " faithful servant." But let me look at the text,
to avoid mistakes; and, indeed, I was mistaken; I
thought it had been " faithful servant of the public,"
but I find it is only "of the House." Well chosen,
that expression, and prudently guarded. The for-
mer, from a proprietary pen, would have been praise
too much ; only for disapproving the time of the ap-
plication. Could you, much respected Sir, go but a
little farther, and disapprove the application itself;
could you but say the proprietary government is a
good one, and ought to be continued ; then might all
your political offences be done away, and your scarlet
sins become as snow and wool ; then might you end

your course with (proprietary) honor. P should

preach your funeral sermon, and S— — , the poisoner
of other characters, embalm your memory. But
those honors you will never receive; for, with re-
turning health and strength, you will be found in
your old post, firm for your country.

1764] Benjamin Franklin 103

There is encouragement too for young sinners. Mr.
Dickinson, whose speech our Prefacer has introduced
to the world (though long hated by some, and disre-
garded by the rest, of the proprietary faction), is at
once, for the same reason as in Mr. Norris's case, be-
come a sage in the law, and an oracle in matters
relating to our constitution. I shall not endeavour
to pluck so much as a leaf from these the young gen-
tleman's laurels. I would only advise him carefully
to preserve the panegyrics with which they have
adorned him ; in time they may serve to console him,
by balancing the calumny they shall load him with,
when he does not go through with them in all their
measures. He will not probably do the one, and
they will then assuredly do the other. There are
mouths that can blow hot as well as cold, and blast
on your brows the bays their hands have placed
there. Experto crede Roberto. Let but the proprie-
tary favor withdraw its shine for a moment ; and that
"great number of the principal gentlemen of Phila-
delphia," who applied to you for the copy of your
speech, shall immediately despise and desert you.

"Those principal gentlemen!" what a pity it is
that their names were not given us in the Preface, to-
gether with their admirable letter. We should then
have known where to run for advice on all occa-
sions. We should have known whom to choose
for our future representatives ; for undoubtedly these
were they that are elsewhere called "the wiser and
better part of the province." None but wisdoms
could have known beforehand that a speech which
they never heard, and a copy of which they had never

104 The Works of [1764

seen, but were then requesting to see, was " a spirited
defence," and "of our charter privileges"; and that
"the publication of it would be of great utility, and
give general satisfaction. ' ' No inferior sagacity could
discover, that the appointment of a governor by the
proprietor was one of our "charter privileges"; and
that those who opposed the application for a royal
government were therefore patriot members appear-
ing on the side of our privileges and our charter.

Utterly to confound the assembly, and show the ex-
cellence of proprietary government, the Prefacer has
extracted from their own votes the praises they have
from time to time bestowed on the first proprietor, in
their addresses to his sons. And, though addresses are
not generally the best repositories of historical truth,
we must not in this instance deny their authority.1

1 In the preface to Dickinson's speech, the following character of

William Penn was inserted, every phrase in which was taken, as the

writer said, from the minutes of the assembly. — Editor.

"William Penn,

A man of principles truly humane,

An advocate for

Religion and Liberty,

Possessing a noble spirit,

That exerted itself

For the good of mankind,

Was

The great and worthy founder

Of

Pennsylvania.

To its inhabitants, by Charter,

He granted and confirmed

Many singular Privileges and Immunities,

Civil and religious;

Which he continually studied

To preserve and defend for them,

Nobly declaring,

That they had not followed him so far

To lose a single title

Of the Great Charter

To which all Englishmen were born!

For these services,
Great have been the acknowledgments,

i764] Benjamin Franklin 105

That these encomiums on the father, though sin-
cere, have occurred so frequently, was owing, how-
ever, to two causes: first, a vain hope the assemblies
entertained, that the father's example, and the hon-
ors done his character, might influence the conduct
of the sons ; secondly, for that, in attempting to com-
pliment the sons on their own merits, there was al-
ways found an extreme scarcity of matter. Hence,
the father, the honored and honorable father, was so
often repeated, that the sons themselves grew sick of
it and have been heard to say to each other with
disgust, when told that A, B, and C were come to
wait upon them with addresses on some public occa-
sion, " Then I suppose we shall hear more about our
father." So that, let me tell the Prefacer, who per-
haps was unacquainted with this anecdote, that if he
hoped to curry more favor with the family, by the in-
scription he has framed for that great man's monu-
ment, he may find himself mistaken; for there is too
much in it of our father.

If, therefore, he would erect a monument to the
sons, the votes of the assembly, which are of such
credit with him, will furnish him with ample materi-
als for his inscription.

Deservedly paid to his merit;

And his memory

Is dear to his people,

Who have repeatedly confessed,

That,

Next to Divine Providence,

Their happiness, prosperity, and increase

Are owing

To his wise conduct and singular goodness,

Which deserve ever to be remembered,

With

Gratitude and Affection.

By Pennsylvanians."

!o6 The Works of [1764

To save him trouble I will essay a sketch for him,
in the lapidary style, though mostly in the expres-
sions, and everywhere in the sense and spirit, of the
assembly's resolves and messages.

Be this a Memorial
Of T and R P ,

P of P ,:

Who, with estates immense,

Almost beyond computation,

When their own province,

And the whole British empire,

Were engaged in a bloody and most expensive war,

Begun for the defence of those estates,

Could yet meanly desire

To have those very estates

Totally or partially

Exempted from taxation,

While their fellow-subjects all around them,

Groaned

Under the universal burden.

To gain this point,

They refused the necessary laws

For the defence of their people,

And suffered their colony to welter in its blood,

Rather than abate in the least

Of these their dishonest pretensions.

The privileges granted by their father,

Wisely and benevolently

To encourage the first settlers of the province,

They,

Foolishly and cruelly,

Taking advantage of public distress.

1 That is, Thomas and Richard Penn, Proprietors of Pennsylvania.
— Editor.

1764] Benjamin Franklin 107

Have extorted from the posterity of those settlers ;
And are daily endeavouring to reduce them
To the most abject slavery;
Though to the virtue and industry of those people,
In improving their country,
They owe all that they possess and enjoy.
A striking instance
Of human depravity and ingratitude ;
And an irrefragable proof,
That wisdom and goodness
Do not descend with an inheritance ;
But that ineffable meanness
May be connected with unbounded fortune.1

What then avails it to the honor of the present
proprietors that our founder and their father gave us
privileges, if they, the sons, will not permit the use
of them, or forcibly rend them from us? David
may have been a man after God's own heart, and
Solomon, the wisest of the proprietors and governors,

but if Rehoboam will be a tyrant and a , who

can secure him the affections of the people? The
virtue and merit of his ancestors may be very great ;
but his presumption in depending upon these alone
may be much greater.

I lamented a few pages ago that we were not ac-
quainted with the names of those "principal gentle-
men, the wiser and better part of the province." I
now rejoice that we are likely some time or other to
know them; for a copy of a " Petition to the King"
is now before me, which, from its similarity with their

1 Votes and Proceedings of the House of Representatives, 1754, passim;
1755. ^S6. J757> passim; 1758, 1759, 1760, 1761, 1762, 1763, 1764,
passim.

108 The Works of [1764

letter, must be of their inditing, and will probably
be recommended to the people by their leading up
the signing.

On this petition I shall take the liberty of making
a few remarks, as they will save me the necessity of
following farther the Preface, the sentiments of this
and that being nearly the same.

It begins with a formal quotation from the peti-
tion,1 which they own they have not seen, and of
words that are not in it ; and, after relating very im-
perfectly and unfairly the fact relating to their appli-
cation for a copy of it, which is of no importance,
proceeds to set forth: "That, as we and all your
American subjects must be governed by persons
authorized and approved by your Majesty, on the
best recommendation that can be obtained of them,
we cannot perceive our condition in this respect to
be different from our fellow-subjects around us; or
that we are thereby less under your Majesty's particu-
lar care and protection than they are; since there
can be no governors of this province without your
Majesty's immediate approbation and authority."

Such a declaration from the wiser part of the pro-
vince is really a little surprising. What ! when dis-
putes concerning matters of property are daily arising
between you and your proprietaries, cannot your wis-
doms perceive the least difference between having the
judges of those disputes appointed by a royal gov-
ernor who has no interest in the cause, and having
them appointed by the proprietaries themselves, the

xThe petition of the assembly to the King for a royal government. —
Editor.

1764] Benjamin Franklin 109

principal parties against you, and during their pleas-
ure too? When supplies are necessary to be raised
for your defence, can you perceive no difference be-
tween having a royal governor, free to promote his
Majesty's service by a ready assent to your laws, and
a proprietary governor, shackled by instructions for-
bidding him to give that assent unless some private
advantage is obtained, some profit got, or unequal
exemption gained for their estate, or some privilege
wrested from you? When prerogative, that in other
governments is only used for the good of the people,
is here strained to the extreme, and used to their
prejudice and the proprietaries' benefit, can you per-
ceive no difference? When the direct and immedi-
ate rays of Majesty benignly and mildly shine on all
around us, but are transmitted and thrown upon us
through the burning-glass of proprietary government,
can your sensibilities feel no difference? Sheltered
perhaps in proprietary offices, or benumbed with ex-
pectations, it may be you cannot. But surely you
might have known better than to tell his Majesty,
"that there can be no governors of this province
without his immediate approbation." Don't you
know, who know so much, that by our blessed
constitution the proprietors themselves, whenever
they please, may govern us in person, without such
approbation?

The petition proceeds to tell his Majesty, "That
the particular mode of government which we enjoy
under your Majesty, is held in the highest estimation
by good men of all denominations among us; and
has brought multitudes of industrious people from

no The Works of [1764

various parts of the world," &c. Really, can this be
from proprietary partisans ? That constitution, which
they were forever censuring, as defective in a legis-
lative council, defective in government powers, too
popular in many of its modes; is it now become so
excellent? Perhaps, as they have been tinkering it
these twenty years, till they have stripped it of some
of its most valuable privileges, and almost spoiled it,
they now begin to like it. But then it is not surely
this present constitution that brought hither those
multitudes. They came before. At least it was not
that particular in our constitution (the proprietary
power of appointing a governor) which attracted
them; that single particular, which alone is now in
question ; which our venerable founder first, and now
the assembly, are endeavouring to change.

As to the remaining valuable part of our constitu-
tion, the assembly have been equally full and strong
in expressing their regard for it, and perhaps stronger
and fuller ; for their petition in that respect is in the
nature of a petition of right; it lays claim, though
modestly and humbly, to those privileges on the
foundation of royal rights, on laws confirmed by the
crown and on justice and equity ; as the grants were
the considerations offered to induce them to settle,
and which they have in a manner purchased and paid
for, by executing that settlement without putting
the crown to any expense.

Whoever would know what our constitution was,
when it was so much admired, let him peruse that ele-
gant farewell speech of Mr. Hamilton, father of our
late governor, when, as Speaker, he took his leave of

1764] Benjamin Franklin m

the House, and of public business, in 1739 ; and then
let him compare that constitution with the present.
The power of appointing public officers by the repre-
sentatives of the people, which he so much extols;
where is it now ? Even the bare naming to the gov-
ernor in a bill, a trivial officer to receive a light-house
duty (which could be considered as no more than a
mere recommendation), is, in a late message, styled
" an encroachment on the prerogative of the crown."
The sole power of raising and disposing of public
money, which he says was then lodged in the assem-
bly; that inestimable privilege, what is become of it?
Inch by inch they have been wrested from us in times
of public distress; and the rest are going the same
way. I remember to have seen, when Governor
Hamilton was engaged in a dispute with the assem-
bly on some of those points, a copy of that speech,
which then was intended to be reprinted, with a dedi-
cation to that honorable gentleman, and this motto,
from John Rogers's verses in the Primer:

' 'We send you here a little book,
For you to look upon,
That you may see your father's face,
Now he is dead and gone."

Many such a little book has been sent by our assem-
blies to the present proprietaries; but they do not
like to see their father's face ; it puts their own out
of countenance.

The petition proceeds to say : " That such disagree-
ments as have arisen in this province, we have be-
held with sorrow; but, as others around us are not

ii2 The Works of [1764

exempted from the like misfortunes, we can by no
means conceive them incident to the nature of our
government, which hath often been administered
with remarkable harmony; and your Majesty, before
whom our late disputes have been laid, can be at no
loss, in your great wisdom to discover, whether they
proceed from the above cause, or should be ascribed
to some others." The disagreements in question are
proprietary disagreements in government, relating to
proprietary private interests. And are not the royal
governments around us exempt from these mis-
fortunes? Can you really, Gentlemen, by no means
conceive, that proprietary government disagreements
are incident to the nature of proprietary govern-
ments? Can they in nature be incident to any other
governments ? If your wisdoms are hard to conceive,
I am afraid they will never bring forth.

But then our government "hath often been ad-
ministered with remarkable harmony." Very true;
as often as the assembly have been able and willing
to purchase that harmony, and pay for it; the mode
of which has already been shown. And yet that
word often seems a little unluckily chosen ; the flame
that is often put out must be as often lit. If our
government " hath often been administered with re-
markable harmony," it hath as often been adminis-
tered with remarkable discord. One often is as nu-
merous as the other. And his Majesty, if he should
take the trouble of looking over our disputes (to
which the petitioners, to save themselves a little
pains, modestly and decently refer him), where will
he, for twenty years past, find any but proprietary

1764] Benjamin Franklin 113

disputes concerning proprietary interests, or disputes
that have been connected with and arose from them ?
The petition proceeds to assure his Majesty, " that
this province (except from the Indian ravages) en-
joys the most perfect internal tranquillity" Amazing!
What ! the most perfect tranquillity, when there have
been three atrocious riots within a few months!
When, in two of them, horrid murders were commit-
ted on twenty innocent persons; and, in the third,
no less than one hundred and forty like murders were
meditated, and declared to be intended, with as many
more as should be occasioned by any opposition!
When we know, that these rioters and murderers have
none of them been punished, have never been prose-
cuted, have not even been apprehended; when we
are frequently told that they intend still to execute
their purposes as soon as the protection of the King's
forces is withdrawn ! Is our tranquillity more perfect
now than it was between the first riot and the second,
or between the second and the third? And why
"except the Indian ravages," if a little intermission
is to be denominated "the most perfect tranquil-
lity " ? for the Indians too have been quiet lately. Al-
most as well might ships in an engagement talk of
the " most perfect tranquillity " between two broad-
sides. But "a spirit of riot and violence is foreign
to the general temper of the inhabitants . " I hope and
believe it is ; the assembly have said nothing to the
contrary. And yet is there not too much of it? Are
there not pamphlets continually written, and daily
sold in our streets, to justify and encourage it ? Are
not the mad armed mob in those writings instigated

ii4 The Works of [1764

to embrue their hands in the blood of their fellow
citizens, by first applauding their murder of the In-
dians, and then representing the assembly and their
friends as worse than Indians, as having privately
stirred up the Indians to murder the white people,
and armed and rewarded them for that purpose?
Lies, Gentlemen, villanous as ever the malice of hell
invented, and which, to do you justice, not one of
you believes, though you would have the mob believe
them.

But your petition proceeds to say, "that where
such disturbances have happened, they have been
speedily quieted" By whom were they quieted?
The two first, if they can be said to be quieted, were
quieted only by the rioters themselves going home
quietly (that is, without any interruption), and re-
maining there till their next insurrection, without any
pursuit or attempt to apprehend any of them. And
the third, was it quieted, or was the mischief they in-
tended prevented, or could it have been prevented,
without the aid of the King's troops, marched into
the province for that purpose? "The civil powers
have been supported," in some sort. We all know
how they were supported ; but have they been fully
supported? Has the government sufficient strength,
even with all its supports, to venture on the appre-
hending and punishment of those notorious offend-
ers? If it has not, why are you angry at those who
would strengthen its hands by a more immediate
royal authority? If it has, why is not the thing
done? Why will the government, by its conduct,
strengthen the suspicions (groundless no doubt), that

1764] Benjamin Franklin 115

it has come to a private understanding with those
murderers, and that impunity for their past crimes is
to be the reward of their future political services?
Oh, but says the petition, " There are perhaps cases in
all governments, where it may not be possible speed-
ily to discover offenders." Probably; is there any
case in any government where it is not possible to
endeavour such a discovery? There may be cases
where it is not safe to do it. And perhaps the best
thing our government can say for itself is, that that
is our case. The only objection to such an apology
must be, that it would justify that part of the assem-
bly's petition to the crown which relates to the weak-
ness of our present government.1

Still, if there is any fault, it must be in the assem-
bly. " For," says the petition, " if the executive part
of our government should seem in any case too weak,
we conceive it is the duty of the assembly, and in
their power, to strengthen it." This weakness, how-
ever, you have just denied. "Disturbances," you
say, " have been speedily quieted, and the civil power
supported"; and thereby you have deprived your
insinuated charge against the assembly of its only
support. But is it not a fact known to you all, that
the assembly did endeavour to strengthen the hands
of the government? That, at his Honor's instance,
they prepared and passed in a few hours a bill for

1 The Assembly, being called upon by the Governor for their advice
on that occasion, did, in a message, advise his sending for and exam-
ining the magistrates of Lancaster county and borough, where the
murders were committed, in order to discover the actors; but neither
that, nor any of the other measures recommended, were ever taken.
Proclamations indeed were published, but soon discontinued.

n6 The Works of [1764

extending hither the act of Parliament for dispersing
rioters ? That they also passed and presented to him
a militia bill, which he refused, unless powers were
thereby given him over the lives and properties of the
inhabitants, which the public good did not require,
and which their duty to their constituents would not
permit them to trust in the hands of any proprietary
governor? You know the points, Gentlemen; they
have been made public. Would you have had your
representatives give up those points ? Do you intend
to give them up, when at the next election you are
made assembly-men ? If so, tell it us honestly before-
hand, that we may know what we are to expect, when
we are about to choose you.

I come now to the last clause of your petition,
where, with the same wonderful sagacity with which
you in another case discovered the excellency of a
speech you never heard, you undertake to character-
ize a petition you own you never saw; and venture
to assure his Majesty, that it is "exceeding grievous
in its nature ; that it by no means contains a proper
representation of the state of this province; and is
repugnant to the general sense of his numerous
and loyal subjects" in it. Are, then, his Majesty's
numerous and loyal subjects in this province all as
great wizards as yourselves, and capable of knowing,
without seeing it, that a petition is repugnant to their
general sense ?

But the inconsistence of your petition, Gentlemen,
is not so much to be wondered at. The prayer of
it is still more extraordinary: "We therefore most
humbly pray, that your Majesty would be graciously

1764] Benjamin Franklin 117

pleased wholly to disregard the said petition of the
assembly. ' ' What ! without inquiry ! Without exami-
nation ! without a hearing of what the assembly might
say in support of it! " wholly disregard" the petition
of your representatives in assembly ; accompanied by
other petitions signed by thousands of your fellow
subjects, as loyal, if not as wise and as good as your-
selves ! Would you wish to see your great and ami-
able prince act a part that could not become a Dey of
Algiers? Do you, who are Americans, pray for a
precedent of such contempt in the treatment of an
American assembly? Such "total disregard" of
their humble applications to the throne? Surely
your Wisdoms here have overshot yourselves. But
as wisdom shows itself, not only in doing what is
right, but in confessing and amending what is wrong,
I recommend the latter particularly to your present
attention, being persuaded of this consequence, that,
though you have been mad enough to sign such a
petition, you never will be fools enough to present it.
There is one thing mentioned in the Preface, which
I find I omitted to take notice of as I came along, the
refusal of the House to enter Mr. Dickinson's protest
on their minutes. This is mentioned in such a man-
ner there and in the newspapers, as to insinuate a
charge of some partiality and injustice in the assem-
bly. But the reasons were merely these: that,
though protesting may be a practice with the Lords of
Parliament, there is no instance of it in the House of
Commons, whose proceedings are the model followed
by the assemblies of America ; that there is no prece-
dent of it in our votes, from the beginning of our

u8 The Works of [1764

present constitution ; and that the introducing such a
practice would be attended with inconveniences, as
the representatives in assembly are not, like the
Lords in Parliament, unaccountable to any con-
stituents; and would therefore find it necessary for
their own justification, if the reasons of the minority
for being against a measure were admitted in the
votes, to put there likewise the reasons that induced
the majority to be for it; whereby the votes which
were intended only as a register of propositions and
determinations, would be filled with the disputes of
members with members, and the public business be
thereby greatly retarded, if ever brought to a period.
As that protest was a mere abstract of Mr. Dickin-
son's speech, every particular of it will be found an-
swered in the following speech of Mr. Galloway ; from
which it is fit that I should no longer detain the
reader.

CCLVI

REMARKS

ON A LATE PROTEST AGAINST THE APPOINTMENT OF

MR. FRANKLIN AS AGENT FOR THE PROVINCE

OF PENNSYLVANIA

The zeal and perseverance with which Franklin had
espoused the cause of the people against the proprietaries,
raised up many enemies in the adverse party. At the
election for a new Assembly, therefore, in the autumn of
1764, great efforts were made by his opponents to pre-
vent his being chosen, in which they succeeded. By a
small majority he lost his seat in the Assembly, which he

i764] Benjamin Franklin 119

had held for fourteen years, having been annually elected,
even during his absence in England, as one of the dele-
gates from the city of Philadelphia. But, notwithstand-
ing his defeat, when the Assembly met it was found that
his friends and the friends of his measures outnumbered
the proprietary party, and he was again appointed to
resume his agency in England, and to take charge of a
petition to the king. Dissatisfied with this step, the
minority in the House drew up a formal protest, and
urged its being inserted in the minutes; but it was re-
fused, on the ground of its being irregular and unpre-
cedented. The protest was published, and gave occasion
for the following reply, written at the moment the author
was preparing to depart for Europe. — Editor.

I have generally passed over, with a silent disre-
gard, the nameless abusive pieces that have been writ-
ten against me; and, though this paper, called "A
Protest," is signed by some respectable names, I was,
nevertheless, inclined to treat it with the same indif-
ference; but as the assembly is therein reflected on
upon my account, it is thought more my duty to
make some remarks upon it.

I would first observe, then, that this mode of pro-
testing by the minority, with a string of reasons
against the proceedings of the majority of the House
of Assembly, is quite new among us; the present is
the second we have had of the kind, and both within a
few months. It is unknown to the practice of the
House of Commons, or of any House of Representa-
tives in America that I have heard of; and seems an
affected imitation of the Lords in Parliament, which
can by no means become assembly-men of America.

120 The Works of [1764

Hence appears the absurdity of the complaint, that
the House refused the protest an entry on their min-
utes. The protestors know that they are not by any
custom or usage entitled to such an entry ; and that
the practice here is not only useless in itself, but
would be highly inconvenient to the House, since it
would probably be thought necessary for the ma-
jority also to enter their reasons, to justify them-
selves to their constituents; whereby the minutes
would be encumbered, and the public business ob-
structed. More especially will it be found incon-
venient, if such protests are made use of as a new
form of libelling, as the vehicles of personal malice,
and as means of giving to private abuse the appear-
ance of a sanction as public acts. Your protest,
Gentlemen, was therefore properly refused; and,
since it is no part of the proceedings of assembly, one
may with the more freedom examine it.

Your first reason against my appointment is, that
you " believe me to be the chief author of the meas-
ures pursued by the last assembly, which have occa-
sioned such uneasiness and distraction among the
good people of this province." I shall not dispute
my share in those measures ; I hope they are such as
will in time do honor to all that were concerned in
them. But you seem mistaken in the order of time.
It was the uneasiness and distraction among the good
people of the province, that occasioned the measures;
the province was in confusion before they were taken,
and they were pursued in order to prevent such un-
easiness and distraction for the future. Make one
step farther back, and you will find proprietary in-

1764] Benjamin Franklin 121

justice, supported by proprietary minions and crea-
tures, the original cause of all our uneasiness and
distractions.

Another of your reasons is " that I am, as you are
informed, very unfavorably thought of by several
of his Majesty's ministers." I apprehend, Gentlemen
that your informer is mistaken. He indeed has
taken great pains to give unfavorable impressions of
me, and perhaps may flatter himself that it is impos-
sible so much true industry should be totally without
effect. His long success in maiming or murdering
all the reputations that stand in his way (which has
been the dear delight and constant employment of
his life) may likewise have given him some just
ground for confidence that he has, as they call it,
done for me among the rest. But, as I said before, I
believe he is mistaken. For what have I done that
they should think unfavorably of me ? It cannot be
my constantly and uniformly promoting the meas-
ures of the crown ever since I had any influence in
the province. It cannot, surely, be my promoting
the change from a proprietary to a royal government.

If indeed I had, by speeches and writings, en-
deavoured to make his Majesty's government univer-
sally odious in the province; if I had harangued by
the week to all comers and goers on the pretended
injustice and oppressions of royal government, and
the slavery of the people under it; if I had written
traitorous papers to this purpose, and got them
translated into other languages to give his Majesty's
foreign subjects here those horrible ideas of it;
if I had declared, written, and printed, that "the

122 The Works of [1764

King's little finger we should find heavier than the
proprietor's whole loins," with regard to our liberties,
then indeed might the ministers be supposed to think
unfavorably of me. But these are not exploits for a
man who holds a profitable office under the crown,
and can expect to hold it no longer than he behaves
with the fidelity and duty that become every good
subject. They are only for officers of proprietary
appointment, who hold their commissions during his
and not the King's pleasure, and who, by dividing
among themselves and their relations offices of many
thousands a year enjoyed by proprietary favor, feel
where to place their loyalty. I wish they were as
good subjects to his Majesty; and perhaps they may
be so when the proprietary interferes no longer.

Another of your reasons is " that the proposal of
me for an agent is extremely disagreeable to a very
great number of the most serious and reputable in-
habitants of the province, and the proof is my having
been rejected at the last election, though I had repre-
sented the city in assembly for fourteen years."

And do those of you, Gentlemen, reproach me with
this, who, among near four thousand voters, had
scarcely a score more than I had? It seems, then,
that your elections were very near being rejections,
and thereby furnishing the same proof in your case
that you produce in mine, of your being likewise ex-
tremely disagreeable to a very great number of the
most serious and reputable people. Do you, honor-
able Sir, reproach me with this who for almost twice
fourteen years have been rejected (if not being chosen
is to be rejected) by the same people, and (unable,

1764] Benjamin Franklin 123

with all your wealth and connexions, and the influ-
ence they give you, to obtain an election in the
county where you reside, and the city where you
were born, and are best known) have been obliged to
accept a seat from one of the out counties, the re-
motest of the province ! It is known, Sir, to the per-
sons who proposed me that I was first chosen against
my inclination, and against my entreaties that I
might be suffered to remain a private man. In none
of the fourteen elections you mention did I ever ap-
pear as a candidate. I never did, directly or indi-
rectly, solicit any man's votes. For six of the years
in which I was annually chosen I was absent, residing
in England, during all which time your secret and
open attacks upon my character and reputation were
incessant, and yet you gained no ground. And can
you really, Gentlemen, find matter of triumph in this
rejection as you call it? A moment's reflection on
the means by which it was obtained must make you
ashamed of it.

Not only my duty to the crown, in carrying the
post-office act more duly into execution, was made
use of to exasperate the ignorant, as if I was increas-
ing my own profits, by picking their pockets ; but my
very zeal in opposing the murderers, and supporting
the authority of government, and even my humanity
with regard to the innocent Indians under our pro-
tection, were mustered among my offences, to stir up
against me those religious bigots, who are of all sav-
ages the most brutish. Add to this the numberless
falsehoods propagated as truths ; and the many per-
juries procured among the wretched rabble brought

124 The Works of [1764

to swear themselves entitled to a vote; and yet so
poor a superiority obtained at all this expense of
honor and conscience ! Can this, Gentlemen, be mat-
ter of triumph? Enjoy it then. Your exultation,
however, was short.

Your artifices did not prevail everywhere ; nor your
double tickets, and whole boxes of forged votes. A
great majority of the new-chosen assembly were of
the old members, and remain uncorrupted. They
still stood firm for the people, and will obtain justice
from the proprietaries. But what does that avail to
you, who are in the proprietary interest? And what
comfort can it afford you, when, by the assembly's
choice of an agent, it appears that the same, to you
obnoxious, man (nothwithstanding all your venom-
ous invectives against him) still retains so great a
share of the public confidence?

But "this step," you say, "gives you the more
lively affliction, as it is taken at the very moment
when you were informed by a member of the House
that the governor had assured him of his having re-
ceived instructions from the proprietaries to give his
assent to the taxation of their estates, in the same
manner that the estates of other persons are to be
taxed; and also to confirm, for the public use, the
several squares formerly claimed by the city . ' ' O the
force of friendship! the power of interest! What
politeness they infuse into a writer, and what delicate
expressions they produce!

The dispute between the proprietaries and us was
about the quantum, the rate of their taxation; and
not about the manner; but now, when all the world

I764] Benjamin Franklin I25

condemns them for requiring a partial exemption of
their estates, and they are forced to submit to an
honest equality, it is called " assenting to be taxed in
the same manner with the people." Their restitution
of five public squares in the plan of the city, which
they had near forty years unjustly and dishonorably
seized and detained from us, (directing their surveyor
to map streets over them, in order to turn them into
lots, and their officers to sell a part of them,) this
their disgorging is softly called confirming them for
the public use; and instead of the plain words, " for-
merly given to the city by the first proprietary, their
father," we have the cautious, pretty expression of
" formerly claimed by the city." Yes; not only for-
merly, but always claimed, ever since they were pro-
mised and given to encourage the settlers; and ever
will be claimed, till we are put in actual possession of
them. It is pleasant, however, to see how lightly
and tenderly you trip over these matters, as if you
trod upon eggs.

But that "very moment," that precious moment!
Why was it so long delayed? Why were those heal-
ing instructions so long withheld and concealed
from the people ? They were, it seems, brought over
by Mr. Allen.1 Intelligence was received by various

* Extract of a letter, dated London, August 6, 1764, from David
Barclay & Sons to Messieurs James and Drinker.

"We very much wish for William Allen's happy arrival on your side;
when we hope his influence, added to the power and commissions the
proprietaries have invested him with, may prove effectual in restoring
harmony and tranquillity among you, so much to be desired by every
wellwisher to your province. Pray be assured of our sincerest and
best wishes for the success of this salutary work, and that nothing in
our power to contribute thereto will ever be wanting."

126 The Works of [1764

hands from London, that orders were sent by the
proprietaries, from which great hopes were enter-
tained of an accommodation. Why was the bring-
ing and the delivery of such orders so long denied?
The reason is easily understood. Messieurs Barclay,
friends to both proprietaries and people, wished for
that gentleman's happy arrival ; hoping his influence,
added to the power and commissions the proprietaries
had vested him with, might prove effectual in restor-
ing harmony and tranquillity among us. But he, it
seems, hoped his influence might do the business
without these additions.

There appeared, on his arrival, some prospect (from
sundry circumstances) of a change to be made in the
House by the approaching election. The proprietary
friends and creatures knew the heart of their master,
and how extremely disagreeable to him that equal
taxation, that restitution, and the other concessions
to be made for the sake of a reconciliation, must
necessarily be. They hoped therefore to spare him
all those mortifications, and thereby secure a greater
portion of his favor. Hence the instructions were
not produced to the last assembly ; though they ar-
rived before the September sitting, when the gov-
ernor was in town, and actually did business with the
House. Nor to the new assembly were they men-
tioned, till the "very moment," the fatal moment,
when the House were on the point of choosing that
wicked adversary of the proprietary, to be an agent
of the province in England.

But I have, you say, a " fixed enmity to the pro-
prietaries," and "you believe it will preclude all ac-

1764] Benjamin Franklin 127

commodation of our disputes with them, even on just
and reasonable terms." And why do you think I
have a fixed enmity to the proprietaries? I have
never had any personal difference with them. I am
no land-jobber; and therefore have never had any
thing to do with their land office or officers ; if I had,
probably, like others, I might have been obliged to
truckle to their measures, or have had like causes of
complaint. But our private interests never clashed;
and all their resentment against me, and mine to
them, has been on the public account. Let them do
justice to the people of Pennsylvania, act honorably
by the citizens of Philadelphia, and become honest
men; my enmity, if that's of any consequence, ceases
from the "very moment," and, as soon as I possibly
can, I promise to love, honor, and respect them.

In the meantime, why do you " believe it will pre-
clude all accommodation with them on just and
reasonable terms"? Do you not boast that their
gracious condescensions are in the hands of the gov-
ernor; and that " if this had been the usual time for
business, his Honor would have sent them down in a
message to the House." How then can my going to
England prevent this accommodation? The gov-
ernor can call the House when he pleases ; and, one
would think that, at least in your opinion, my being
out of the way would be a favorable circumstance.
For then, by " cultivating the disposition shown by
the proprietaries, every reasonable demand that can
be made on the part of the people might be obtained ;
in vigorously insisting on which, you promise to unite
more earnestly with the rest of the House. ' ' It seems

128 The Works of [1764

then we have " reasonable demands " to make, and,
as you call them a little higher, equitable demands.
This is much for proprietary minions to own; but
you are all growing better, in imitation of your mas-
ter, which is indeed very commendable. And, if the
accommodation here should fail, I hope that, though
you dislike the person a majority of two to one in
the House have thought fit to appoint an agent, you
will nevertheless, in duty to your country, continue
the noble resolution of uniting with the rest of the
House in vigorously insisting on that equity and
justice which such a union will undoubtedly obtain
for us.

I pass over the trivial charge against the assembly,
that they " acted with unnecessary haste in proceed-
ing to this appointment, without making a small ad-
journment," &c, and your affected apprehensions of
danger from that haste. The necessity of expedition
on this occasion is as obvious to every one out of
doors, as it was to those within; and the fears you
mention are not, I fancy, considerable enough to
break your rest.

I come then to your high charge against me, " that
I heretofore ventured, contrary to an act of assembly,
to place the public money in the stocks ; whereby this
province suffered a loss of six thousand pounds, and
that sum, added to the five thousand pounds granted
for my expenses, makes the whole cost of my former
voyage to England amount to eleven thousand
pounds!" How wisely was that form in our laws con-
trived, which, when a man is arraigned for his life, re-
quires the evidence to speak the truth, the whole truth,

1764] Benjamin Franklin 129

and nothing but the truth! The reason is manifest. A
falsehood may destroy the innocent ; so may part of a
truth without the whole ; and a mixture of truth and
falsehood may be full as pernicious. You, Mr. Chief
Justice, and the other justices among the protestors,
and you, Sir, who are a Counsellor at Law, must all of
you be well acquainted with this excellent form ; and
when you arraigned my reputation (dearer to me
than life) before the assembly, and now at the re-
spectable tribunal of the public, would it not have
well become your honors to have had some small
regard at least to the spirit of that form?

You might have mentioned that the direction of
the act to lodge the money in the bank, subject to
the drafts of the trustees of the loan office here, was
impracticable ; that the bank refused to receive it on
those terms, it being contrary to their settled rules
to take charge of money subject to the orders of
unknown people living in distant countries. You
might have mentioned that the House being in-
formed of this, and having no immediate call for the
money, did themselves adopt the measure of placing
it in the stocks, which then were low ; where it might
on a peace produce a considerable profit, and in the
meantime accumulate an interest. That they even
passed a bill, directing the subsequent sums granted
by Parliament to be placed with the former ; that the
measure was prudent and safe; and that the loss
arose, not from placing the money in the stocks, but
from the imprudent and unnecessary drawing it out
at the very time when they were lowest, on some
slight uncertain rumors of a peace concluded; that,

130 The Works of [1764

if the assembly had let it remain another year, in-
stead of losing, they would have gained six thousand
pounds; and that, after all, since the exchange at
which they sold their bills was near twenty per cent,
higher when they drew than when the stocks were
purchased, the loss was far from being so great as you
represent it.

All these things you might have said; for they are,
and you know them to be, part of the whole truth;
but they would have spoiled your accusation. The
late Speaker of your honorable House, Mr. Norris
(who has, I suppose, all my letters to him, and copies
of his own to me, relating to that transaction), can
testify with how much integrity and clearness I man-
aged the whole affair. All the House were sensible
of it, being from time to time fully acquainted with
the facts. If I had gone to gaming in the stocks
with the public money, and through my fault a sum
was lost, as your protest would insinuate, why was I
not censured and punished for it when I returned?
You, honorable Sir (my enemy of seven years' stand-
ing), were then in the House. You were appointed
on the committee for examining my accounts; you
reported that you found them just, and signed that
report.1

I never solicited the employ of agent; I made no
bargain for my future service, when I was ordered to

1 Report of the Committee on Benjamin Franklin's Accounts.

"February 19, 1763. In obedience to the order of the House, we
have examined the account of Benjamin Franklin, Esquire, with the
vouchers to us produced in support thereof, and do find the same ac-
count to be just; and that he has expended, in the immediate service
of this province, the sum of seven hundred and fourteen pounds, ten

1764] Benjamin Franklin 131

England by the assembly ; nor did they vote me any
salary. I lived there near six years at my own ex-
pense, and I made no charge or demand when I came
home. You, Sir, of all others, were the very mem-
ber that proposed (for the honor and justice of the
House) a compensation to be made me of the five
thousand pounds you mention. Was it with an

shillings, and seven pence, out of the sum of -fifteen hundred pounds
sterling, to him remitted and paid, exclusive of any allowance or
charge for his support and services for the province.

" John Morton,
William Allen,
John Ross,
John Moor,
Joseph Fox,
John Hughes,
Samuel Rhoads,
John Wilkinson,
Isaac Pearson.
"The House, taking the foregoing report of the committee of ac-
counts into consideration, and having spent some time therein,

"Resolved, That the sum of five hundred pounds sterling, per annum,
be allowed and given to Benjamin Franklin, Esquire, late agent for
the province of Pennsylvania at the court of Great Britain, during his
absence of six years from his business and connexions, in the service
of the public; and that the thanks of this House be also given to the
said gentleman by Mr. Speaker, from the chair, as well for the faithful
discharge of his duty to this province in particular, as for the many
and important services done America in general, during his residence
in Great Britain."

"Thursday, March 31, 1763. Pursuant to a resolve of the 19th of
last month, that the thanks of this House be given to Benjamin
Franklin, Esquire, for his many services, not only to the province of
Pennsylvania, but to America in general, during his late agency at the
court of Great Britain, the same were this day accordingly given in
form from the chair. To which Mr. Franklin, respectfully addressing
himself to the Speaker, made answer: 'That he was thankful to the
House for the very handsome and generous allowance they had been
pleased to make him for his services ; but that the approbation of this
house was, in his estimation, far above every other kind of recom-
pense.'"— Votes, 1763.

132 The Works of [1764

intent to reproach me thus publicly for accepting it ?
I thanked the House for it then, and I thank you
now for proposing it ; though you, who have lived in
England, can easily conceive that, besides the preju-
dice to my private affairs by my absence, a thousand
pounds more would not have reimbursed me.

The money voted was immediately paid me. But
if I had occasioned the loss of six thousand pounds to
the province, here was a fair opportunity of securing
easily the greatest part of it. Why was not the five
thousand pounds deducted, and the remainder called
for? The reason is this accusation was not then in-
vented. Permit me to add that, supposing the whole
eleven thousand pounds an expense occasioned by
my voyage to England ; yet the taxation of the pro-
prietary estate now established, will, when valued by
years' purchase, be found in time an advantage to
the public far exceeding that expense. And if the
expense is at present a burden, the odium of it ought
to lie on those who, by their injustice, made the voy-
age necessary, and not on me, who only submitted to
the orders of the House in undertaking it.

I am now to take leave (perhaps a last leave)
of the country I love, and in which I have spent the
greatest part of my life. Esto perpetuo. I wish every
kind of prosperity to my friends; and I forgive my
enemies.

B. Franklin.

Philadelphia, Nov. 5, 1764.

I765] Benjamin Franklin J33

CCLVII

TO MRS. DEBORAH FRANKLIN

London, 9 February, 1765.

My Dear Child:— I have been so hurried of late
that I could not write much by this packet. One let-
ter to the Speaker, and one to you, are all I shall be
able to make out. Thanks to God, I am got per-
fectly well; my cough quite gone. My arms, too,
continue mending, so that I can now put on and off
my clothes, but do not practice it yet, as it still hurts
me a little. John continues with me, behaves very
well, and talks of returning with me. Mrs. Steven-
son has bought the things you wrote for, and they will
go by Captain Robinson. She presents her compli-
ments, and wishes you would come over and bring
Sally. I purpose sending in the chest some books
for cousin Colbert, if the bookseller sends them soon

enough.

I hope to be able to return about the end of sum-
mer. I will look out for a watch for Sally, as you
desire, to bring with me. The reason I did not think
of it before, was your suffering her to wear yours,
which you seldom use yourself. Major Small arrived
here about three weeks since very well, and gave me
the pleasure of hearing that he left you and Sally and
our other children well also. The news of Colonel
Bouquet's success gave great satisfaction here, but to
none more than myself, upon his account as well as
the country's. I do not know whether I mentioned
in any former letter, that I could wish you to send
me what letters come to your hands directed to me

134 The Works of [1765

in my absence. I particularly want those that went
from the post-office here.

I am obliged to our landlord for his civility, and
shall always remember it. I hope by this time your
trouble of moving is over, and that you are com-
pletely settled. I went to see Mrs. West. She was
then unwell, and I did not see her, and have since
been too busy; but shall wait on them again very
soon. My love to all. I am, my dear Debby, your

affectionate husband,

B. Franklin.

CCLVIII

FROM JOSEPH GALLOWAY TO B. FRANKLIN

Philadelphia, 27 February, 1765.

Dear Sir: — I wrote to you by the packet, includ-
ing a copy of the extract of a letter from Thomas
Penn to his nephew, the governor, which is enclosed
in this letter.

This account of the petitions for a change of this
government from proprietary to royal, has struck our
friends with the utmost consternation, and, indeed, I
am not a little alarmed at the consequences. For,
you well know, the Assembly party are the only loyal
part of the people here, and are those very persons,
who have preserved the peace and good order of the
province, not only against the Paxton rioters and
murderers, but also in these times of general tumult
and distraction, when all the powers of this govern-
ment were asleep, and its officers were inactive in the

1765] Benjamin Franklin 135

opposition; and they conceive that this good de-
meanor and remarkable service to the crown justify
their claim of some share of merit, and, at least,
entitles them to a hearing of their complaints.

But they say, if this extract be true, that his
Majesty's Privy Council has rejected the humble pe-
titions of their representatives without even a hear-
ing; that they have not been permitted, when they
approached the throne with the utmost duty and
loyalty, to breathe forth their complaints against
proprietary oppression and injustice, which has often
wounded their own welfare, and obstructed their
essential duties to the crown; and that they have
nothing now left, but to groan, if they dare to groan
at all, under the tyranny of a private subject, without
the least hopes of redress, the royal ear being shut
against a part of his liege subjects, the most dutiful
and loyal.

They further say, what you well know, that the
laws are not, nor have been for many years, duly
executed; that no justice is to be obtained against
the Proprietors, or their adherents; that the most
flagitious offenders, even murderers and rebels, are
travelling about the country with impunity ; and that
they have no protection of life nor safety of person
or property. These, with many other complaints,
are constantly issuing from the hearts of the peo-
ple; the proprietary dependents excepted, who greatly
rejoice and even insult the petitioners and their
friends. Since the receipt of this incredible letter,
extracts whereof have been industriously sent all
over the province, in order to spirit up the temper

136 The Works of [1765

and violent disposition of their party, I have left
nothing in my power unessayed among our friends to
oppose the torrent, and to prevail on them to dis-
credit this account, and to believe that his Majesty
will yet hear their petitions and redress their aggriev-
ances. And I have been obliged to give many ex-
tracts of your letters to me, respecting the state of
those petitions, to convince them of my assurances,
which has, in some degree, prevented their despair,
as they have been from thence induced to discredit
the extract.

Our Assembly, anxious to know the result of the
petitions, have adjourned to the 6th of May next;
being inviolably attached to his Majesty, and firmly
determined to become his immediate subjects, if
there are any human means left to effect it. And
since the assurances that have been received, that our
liberties will be preserved on the change, all their con-
stituents (the proprietary dependents and Presby-
terians excepted) are determined to support them
in the attempt. Should this account from the
Proprietor prove true (which God forbid) , that their
petitions are rejected without a hearing, I fear their
consternation and distress will be wrought still higher.
For, while the present members are continued, I
am convinced they will never cease entreating his
Majesty to rescue them from the oppression of his
private subjects ; and that there is a great probability
to presume their continuance, will appear from the
accounts of the last election.

Wherefore I hope the petitions, as you have writ-
ten, and I have confidently declared, are not rejected,

1765] Benjamin Franklin 137

or laid aside, but will be resumed when the more im-
portant American affairs are settled. Nothing less
than a change, I think, will satisfy the people; cer-
tain I am, a dismission without a hearing never can,
but, I fear, will throw this already too unhappy
province into equal disorder and confusion with its
neighbouring colonies.

You will therefore be pleased to inform me in what
state the petitions are before his Majesty's Council,
by the earliest opportunity, that I may be enabled to
satisfy the people, who rely upon us with certainty.
In the meantime, be assured that nothing in my
power shall be wanting to preserve the peace, and
render them easy. Believe me, dear friend, ever
yours most affectionately,

Joseph Galloway.

CCLIX

FROM MRS. FRANKLIN TO HER HUSBAND

Aprill ye 7 this day is Compleet 5 munthes senes
you lefte your one House I did reseve a letter from
the Capes senes that not one line I due supose that
you did write by the Jan packit but that is not
arived as yit Mits wikeof came and told me that you
was arived and was well that her Brother had wrote
her he had seen you Mr. Neet has wrote that you
was well and miss Graham has wrote all so that shee
had the pleshuer of a visit from you and several have
wrote that you was well all thes a Countes air as

138 The Works of [i765

plesing as such things Can be but a letter wold tell
me hough your poor armes was and hough you was
on your voiag and hough you air and everey thing is
with you which I wante verey much to know.

Mr. Foxcrafte came to toun this day weeke and is
to retame a gen in a bought a week and as I had got
sume [?| of our things in the new house and beads in
the uper roomes he lodges in the room fasing the
market-street and has his writeing thair all so yister-
day sume of the saches was hung and if I wold a low
my selef I cold find fait but I donte and so we go
on but it has bin such bad wather this is freyday
morning Aprill ye 12 yisterday I reseved yours of
Desember 10 and 27 Jan. 12 all by the packit which
was given over for loste but thank God is now safe
arived.

As I have but a very littel time to write as the
rodes is so very bad I shall only to Joyne with

you in senser thanks to god for your presevevoashon
and Safe a rivel o what reson have you and I to be
thankful for maney meney [?] we have reseved.

Billey and his wife is in town they Came to the rases
lodged at Mr Galloway but Spente yisterday at our
house and Mr William's Brother we was att diner I
sed I had not aney thing but vitels for I cold not get
aney thing for a deserte but who knows but I may
treet you with sum thing from Ingland and as we was
at tabel Mr. Sumain [?] Came and sed the poste had
gone by with the letters that the packit had brought
so I had the pleshuer of treeting quite grand indeed
and our littel Company as Cherful and hapey as ony
in the world none excepted o my dear hough hapey

1765] Benjamin Franklin 139

am I to hear that you air safe and well hough dus
your armes doe was John of servis to you is your
Cold quite gon o I long to know the partic [?] hear
I must levef of Salley not up as she was at the
Assembly last night with her Sister and I have
spook to more than twenty sense I wrote the a bove,
I saw Mr. Rhodes this morning he is well and has a
Grandatter named Mary Franklin Brother and Sister
is well Brother Read is gon to Pittsburg Debbey sends
her Duty to you but is verey poorly indeed Cusin
Devenporte is hear her Doty shee is will Hethcote de-
siers his I donte no that I shold say it but he ses his
Duty I suppose moste of your friends wrote to you.
My love to good Mrs. Stephenson and Polley to our
Cosines to Mr and Mrs Strahan [?] and their whole
famely. to our good Mr. Collinson to Mr and Mrs
Weste and to all who I am obligd to for thair kiness
to you every one that I have seen desiers to be re-
member to you and everey one hinders me our one
famely is well and sendes Duty I am told that my old
naber Mrs Emson is to be in London my love to her
and give her a kis from me adoe my Dear child and
take caire of youre selef for maneys sake as well as
your one. I am your a feckshonet wife

D. Franklin.

Mrs Potts and Saell send their Love and Duty to
you.

[On the back of the letter written across the page is the following.]

Laste night Capt. Car arived I supose you did not
write by him. Mama had a letter from Susan Write
they were all well a few days ago.

140 The Works of [1765

CCLX

TO THE EDITOR OF A NEWSPAPER

Monday, 20 May, 1765.

Sir: — In your paper of Wednesday last, an ingen-
ious correspondent who calls himself The Spectator,
and dates from Pimlico, under the guise of good- will
to news-writers, whom he calls a " useful body of men
in this great city," has, in my opinion, artfully at-
tempted to turn them and their works into ridicule,
wherein, if he could succeed, great injury might be
done to the public as well as to these good people.

Supposing, Sir, that the "we hears" they give us
of this or the other intended tour or voyage of this
and the other great personage were mere inventions,
yet they at least offer us an innocent amusement
while we read, and useful matter for conversation
when we are disposed to converse.

Englishmen, Sir, are apt to be silent when they
have nothing to say, and too apt to be sullen when
they are silent; and, when they are sullen, to hang
themselves. But, by these we hears, we are supplied
with abundant funds for discourse. We discuss the
motives for such voyages, the probability of their be-
ing undertaken, and the practicability of their execu-
tion. Here we display our judgment in politics, our
knowledge of the interests of princes, and our skill
in geography, and (if we have it) show our dexterity
in argumentation. In the meantime, the tedious
hour is killed, we go home pleased with the applause
we have received from others, or at least with those
we give to ourselves; we sleep soundly, and live on,

1765] Benjamin Franklin 141

to the comfort of our families. But, Sir, I beg leave
to say, that all the articles of news that seem im-
probable are not mere inventions. Some of them, I
can assure you on the faith of a traveller, are serious
truths. And here, quitting Mr. Spectator of Pimlico,
give me leave to instance the various accounts the
news- writers have given us, with so much honest zeal
for the welfare of Poor Old England, of the estab-
lishing manufactures in the colonies to the prejudice
of those of the kingdom. It is objected by super-
ficial readers, who yet pretend to some knowledge of
those countries, that such establishments are not
only improbable, but impossible, for that their sheep
have but little wool, not in the whole sufficient for
a pair of stockings a year to each inhabitant; that,
from the universal dearness of labor among them,
the working of iron and other materials, except
in a few coarse instances, is impracticable to any
advantage.

Dear Sir, do not let us suffer ourselves to be
amused with such groundless objections. The very
tails of the American sheep are so laden with wool,
that each has a little car or wagon on four little
wheels to support and keep it from trailing on the
ground. Would they caulk their ships; would they
even litter their horses with wool, if it were not
both plenty and cheap? And what signifies the
dearness of labor, when an English shilling passes
for five and twenty ? Their engaging three hundred
silk throwsters here in one week for New York
was treated as a fable, because, forsooth, they have
"no silk there to throw." Those who make this

142 The Works of [1765

objection perhaps do not know that at the same time
the agents from the King of Spain were at Quebec
to contract for one thousand pieces of cannon, to be
made there for the fortification of Mexico, and at
New York engaging the usual supply of woollen floor-
carpets for their West India houses; other agents
from the emperor of China were at Boston treating
about an exchange of raw silk for wool, to be carried
in Chinese junks through the Straits of Magellan.

And yet all this is as certainly true as the account,
said to be from Quebec, in all the papers of last week,
that the inhabitants of Canada are making prepara-
tions for a cod and whale fishery this "summer in
the upper Lakes. ' ' Ignorant people may object that
the upper Lakes are fresh, and that cod and whales
are salt water fish, but let them know, Sir, that cod,
like other fish, when attacked by their enemies, fly
into any water where they can be safest ; that whales,
when they have a mind to eat cod, pursue them
wherever they fly, and that the grand leap of the
whale in the chase up the Falls of Niagara is es-
teemed by all who have seen it as one of the finest
spectacles in nature. Really, Sir, the world is grown
too incredulous. It is like the pendulum ever swing-
ing from one extreme to another. Formerly every
thing printed was believed because it was in print.
Now things seem to be disbelieved for just the very
same reason. Wise men wonder at the present
growth of infidelity. They should have considered
when they taught people to doubt the authority of
newspapers and the truth of predictions in the al-
manacs, that the next step might be a disbelief of the

1765] Benjamin Franklin 143

well-vouched accounts of ghosts and witches, and
doubts even of the truths of the Creed.

Thus much I thought it necessary to say in favor
of an honest set of writers whose comfortable living
depends on collecting and supplying the printers with
news at the small price of sixpence an article, and
who always show their regard to truth by contradict-
ing in a subsequent article such as are wrong for an-
other sixpence, to the great satisfaction and improve-
ment of us coffee-house students in history and
politics, and all future Livys, Rapins, Robertsons,
Humes, and Macaulays, who may be sincerely in-
clined to furnish the world with that rara avis, a true
history. I am, Sir, your humble servant,

A Traveller.

CCLXI

TO LORD KAMES, AT EDINBURGH

London, 2 June, 1765.

In my passage to America I read your excellent
work, the Elements of Criticism, in which I found great
entertainment. I only wished you had examined
more fully the subject of music, and demonstrated
that the pleasure artists feel in hearing much of
that composed in the modern taste, is not the natural
pleasure arising from melody or harmony of sounds,
but of the same kind with the pleasure we feel on
seeing the surprising feats of tumblers and rope-
dancers, who execute difficult things. For my part
I take this to be really the case, and suppose it to be

144 The Works of [1765

the reason why those who are unpractised in music,
and therefore unacquainted with those difficulties,
have little or no pleasure in hearing this music.
Many pieces of it are mere compositions of tricks.
I have sometimes, at a concert, attended by a com-
mon audience, placed myself so as to see all their
faces, and observed no signs of pleasure in them during
the performance of a great part that was admired by
the performers themselves ; while a plain old Scotch
tune, which they disdained, and could scarcely be pre-
vailed on to play, gave manifest and general delight.
Give me leave, on this occasion, to extend a little
the sense of your position, that "melody and har-
mony are separately agreeable, and in union delight-
ful," and to give it as my opinion, that the reason
why the Scotch tunes have lived so long, and will
probably live forever (if they escape being stifled in
modern affected ornament), is merely this, that they
are really compositions of melody and harmony
united, or rather that their melody is harmony. I
mean the simple tunes sung by a single voice. As this
will appear paradoxical, I must explain my meaning.
In common acceptation, indeed, only an agreeable suc-
cession of sounds is called melody, and only the coex-
istence of agreeable sounds, harmony. But, since the
memory is capable of retaining for some moments a
perfect idea of the pitch of a past sound, so as to
compare with it the pitch of a succeeding sound, and
judge truly of their agreement or disagreement, there
may and does arise from thence a sense of harmony
between the present and past sounds, equally pleas-
ing with that between two present sounds.

1765] Benjamin Franklin 145

Now the construction of the old Scotch tunes is
this, that almost every succeeding emphatical note is
a third, a fifth, an octave, or in short some note that
is in concord with the preceding note. Thirds are
chiefly used, which are very pleasing concords. I use
the word emphatical to distinguish those notes which
have a stress laid on them in singing the tune, from
the lighter connecting notes, that serve merely, like
grammar articles in common speech, to tack the
whole together.

That we have a most perfect idea of a sound just
past, I might appeal to all acquainted with music,who
know how easy it is to repeat a sound in the same
pitch with one just heard. In tuning an instrument,
a good ear can as easily determine that two strings
are in unison by sounding them separately, as by
sounding them together; their disagreement is also
as easily, I believe I may say more easily and better,
distinguished, when sounded separately; for when
sounded together, though you know by the beating
that one is higher than the other, you cannot tell
which it is. I have ascribed to memory the ability of
comparing the pitch of a present tone with that of
one past. But if there should be, as possibly there
may be, something in the ear, similar to what we find
in the eye, that ability would not be entirely owing
to memory. Possibly the vibrations given to the au-
ditory nerves by a particular sound may actually con-
tinue some time after the cause of those vibrations is
past, and the agreement or disagreement of a subse-
quent sound become by comparison with them more
discernible. For the impression made on the visual

VOL. IV. IO.

146 The Works of [1765

nerves by a luminous object will continue for twenty
or thirty seconds. Sitting in a room, look earnestly
at the middle of a window a little while when the day
is bright, and then shut your eyes; the figure of the
window will still remain in the eye, and so distinct
that you may count the panes.

A remarkable circumstance attending this experi-
ment is, that the impression of forms is better re-
tained than that of colors ; for after the eyes are shut,
when you first discern the image of the window, the
panes appear dark, and the cross bars of the sashes,
with the window frames and walls, appear white or
bright; but, if you still add to the darkness in the
eyes by covering them with your hand, the reverse
instantly takes place, the panes appear luminous and
the cross-bars dark. And by removing the hand
they are again reversed. This I know not how to
account for. Nor for the following : that, after look-
ing long through green spectacles, the white paper of
a book will on first taking them off appear to have a
blush of red; and, after long looking through red
glasses, a greenish cast; this seems to intimate a
relation between green and red not yet explained.

Farther, when we consider by whom these ancient
tunes were composed, and how they were first per-
formed, we shall see that such harmonical successions
of sounds were natural and even necessary in their
construction. They were composed by the minstrels
of those days to be played on the harp accompanied
by the voice. The harp was strung with wire, which
gives a sound of long continuance, and had no con-
trivance like that in the modern harpsichord, by

1765] Benjamin Franklin 147

which the sound of the preceding could be stopped,
the moment a succeeding note began. To avoid
actual discord, it was therefore necessary that the
succeeding emphatic note should be a chord with the
preceding, as their sounds must exist at the same
time. Hence arose that beauty in those tunes that
has so long pleased, and will please for ever, though
men scarce know why. That they were originally
composed for the harp, and of the most simple kind,
I mean a harp without any half notes but those in the
natural scale, and with no more than two octaves of
strings, from C to C, I conjecture from another cir-
cumstance, which is, that not one of those tunes,
really ancient, has a single artificial half note in it,
and that in tunes where it was most convenient for
the voice to use the middle notes of the harp, and
place the key in F, there the B, which if used should
be a B flat, is always omitted, by passing over it with
a third. The connoisseurs in modern music will say,
I have no taste; but I cannot help adding, that I
believe our ancestors, in hearing a good song, dis-
tinctly articulated, sung to one of those tunes, and
accompanied by the harp, felt more real pleasure
than is communicated by the generality of modern
operas, exclusive of that arising from the scenery and
dancing. Most tunes of late composition, not having
this natural harmony united with their melody, have
recourse to the artificial harmony of a bass, and other
accompanying parts. This support, in my opinion,
the old tunes do not need, and are rather confused
than aided by it. Whoever has heard James Oswald
play them on his violoncello, will be less inclined to

148 The Works of [1765

dispute this with me. I have more than once seen
tears of pleasure in the eyes of his auditors; and yet,
I think, even his playing those tunes would please
more, if he gave them less modern ornament.

I am, &c.,

B. Franklin.1

CCLXII

TO LORD KAMES

London, 2 June, 1765.

My Dear Lord: — I received with great pleasure
your friendly letter by Mr. Alexander, which I
should have answered sooner by some other convey-

1 Mr. Tytler, in his Life of Lord Karnes (vol. ii., p. 31, 2d ed.) makes
the following remarks on the above letter: "This notion of Dr. Frank-
lin's, respecting what he called the Ideal Harmony of the Scottish
melodies, is extremely acute, and is marked by that ingenious sim-
plicity in the thought which is characteristic of a truly philosophic
mind. In supplement to his observation, that the past sound, being
retained by the memory, forms a concord with the present sound, it
may perhaps be added, that, the tympanum of the ear continuing to
vibrate for some little time after it is struck by any musical note, the
succeeding note will be either agreeable or disagreeable, as it accords,
or is in discordance, with the existing vibration. Now a succession
of notes by thirds and fifths will always find the tympanum in con-
cord, and the last vibration harmonizing with the succeeding. This
notion accounts completely for the effect of the Scottish melodies, in
giving pleasure alike to an intelligent judge of music, and to a person
of uncultivated taste, provided he have a good musical ear; for the
pleasure arising from a succession of sounds, in the regular interval of
thirds and fifths, and likewise that arising from their concord, is
founded in nature, and in the mechanical structure of the organs of
hearing, and is altogether independent of custom or acquired taste. A
Scottish air will therefore be grateful alike to the ear of a Greenlander,
a Japanese, and a native of Italy; if possessed of the musical sense,
they will all equally understand and relish it, for it speaks an universal
language. ' ' — Sparks.

1765] Benjamin Franklin 149

ance, if I had understood that his stay here was like
to be so long. I value myself extremely on the con-
tinuance of your regard, which I hope hereafter better
to deserve, by more punctual returns in the corre-
spondence you honor me with.

You require my history from the time I set sail for
America. I left England about the end of August,
1762, in company with ten sail of merchant ships,
under a convoy of a man-of-war. We had a pleasant
passage to Madeira, where we were kindly received
and entertained ; our nation being then in high honor
with the Portuguese, on account of the protection we
were then affording them against the united invasions
of France and Spain. It is a fertile island, and the
different heights and situations among its mountains
afford such temperaments of air, that all the fruits of
northern and southern countries are produced there ;
corn, grapes, apples, peaches, oranges, lemons, plan-
tains, bananas, &c. Here we furnished ourselves with
fresh provisions, and refreshments of all kinds; and,
after a few days, proceeded on our voyage, running
southward until we got into the trade winds, and then
with them westward, till we drew near the coast of
America. The weather was so favorable that there
were few days in which we could not visit from ship
to ship, dining with each other, and on board of the
man-of-war; which made the time pass agreeably,
much more so than when one goes in a single ship;
for this was like travelling in a moving village, with
all one's neighbours about one.

On the 1 st of November, I arrived safe and well at
my own home, after an absence of near six years;

150 The Works of [1765

found my wife and daughter well; the latter grown
quite a woman, with many amiable accomplishments
acquired in my absence; and my friends as hearty
and affectionate as ever, with whom my house was
filled for many days, to congratulate me on my re-
turn. I had been chosen yearly during my absence
to represent the city of Philadelphia in our provincial
Assembly; and, on my appearance in the House,
they voted me three thousand pounds sterling for my
services in England, and their thanks, delivered by
the Speaker. In February following my son arrived
with my new daughter; for, with my consent and
approbation, he married soon after I left England a
very agreeable West India lady, with whom he is
very happy. I accompanied him to his government,
where he met with the kindest reception from the
people of all ranks, and has lived with them ever
since in the greatest harmony. A river only parts
that province and ours, and his residence is within
seventeen miles of me, so that we frequently see each
other.

In the spring of 1763, I set out on a tour through
all the northern Colonies to inspect and regulate the
post-offices in the several provinces. In this journey
I spent the summer, travelled about sixteen hundred
miles, and did not get home till the beginning of No-
vember. The Assembly sitting through the follow-
ing winter, and warm disputes arising between them
and the governor, I became wholly engaged in public
affairs; for, besides my duty as an Assemblyman, I
had another trust to execute, that of being one of
the commissioners appointed by law to dispose of the

1765] Benjamin Franklin 151

public money appropriated to the raising and paying
an army to act against the Indians, and defend the
frontiers. And then, in December, we had two insur-
rections of the back inhabitants of our province, by
whom twenty poor Indians were murdered, that had,
from the first settlement of the province, lived among
us, under the protection of our government. This
gave me a good deal of employment; for as the riot-
ers threatened further mischief, and their actions
seemed to be approved by an ever-acting party, I
wrote a pamphlet entitled A Narrative, &c. (which I
think I sent to you), to strengthen the hands of our
weak government, by rendering the proceedings of
the rioters unpopular and odious. This had a good
effect; and afterwards, when a great body of them
with arms marched towards the capital, in defiance of
the government, with an avowed resolution to put to
death one hundred and forty Indian converts then
under its protection, I formed an Association at the
governor's request, for his and their defence, we hav-
ing no militia. Near one thousand of our citizens
accordingly took arms; Governor Penn made my
house for some time his head-quarters, and did every
thing by my advice; so that for about forty-eight
hours, I was a very great man; as I had been once
some years before, in a time of public danger.

But the fighting face we put on, and the reasonings
we used with the insurgents (for I went at the re-
quest of the governor and council, with three others,
to meet and discourse with them), having turned
them back and restored quiet to the city, I became a
less man than ever; for I had, by this transaction,

i52 The Works of [1765

made myself many enemies among the populace ; and
the governor (with whose family our public disputes
had long placed me in an unfriendly light, and the
services I had lately rendered him not being of the
kind that make a man acceptable) thinking it a favor-
able opportunity, joined the whole weight of the pro-
prietary interest to get me out of the Assembly;
which was accordingly effected at the last election,
by a majority of about twenty-five in four thousand
voters. The House, however, when they met in
October, approved of the resolutions taken, while I
was Speaker,1 of petitioning the crown for a change
of government, and requested me to return to Eng-
land, to prosecute that petition ; which service, I ac-
cordingly undertook, and embarked at the beginning
of November last, being accompanied to the ship,
sixteen miles, by a cavalcade of three hundred of my
friends, who filled our sails with their good wishes,
and I arrived in thirty days at London.

Here I have been ever since, engaged in that and
other public affairs relating to America, which are
likely to continue some time longer upon my hands ;
but I promise you, that when I am quit of these, I
will engage in no other; and that, as soon as I have
recovered the ease and leisure I hope for, the task
you require of me, of finishing my Art of Virtue,
shall be performed. In the meantime, I must request
you would excuse me on this consideration, that the
powers of the mind are possessed by different men in

1 Mr. Isaac Norris, who had long acted as Speaker of the Assembly
of Pennsylvania, resigned that office on account of ill health, May 26,
1764, and Dr. Franklin was appointed as his successor. He continued
Speaker till the Assembly was dissolved in September following.

1765] Benjamin Franklin 153

different degrees, and that every one cannot, like
Lord Kames, intermix literary pursuits and import-
ant business without prejudice to either.

I send you herewith two or three other pamphlets
of my writing on our political affairs, during my short
residence in America l ; but I do not insist on your
reading them; for I know you employ all your time
to some useful purpose. I am, &c,

B. Franklin.

P. S. — I promise myself the pleasure of seeing you
and my other friends in Scotland before I return to
America.

CCLXIII

TO MRS. DEBORAH FRANKLIN

London, 4 June, 1765.

My Dear Child: — I have now before me your
favors; not so many letters as dates, some of them
having two or three. As to the cause concerning the
lot, I have never been in the least uneasy about it,
desiring only, that justice might be done, which I do
not doubt. I hope Robinson was not long missing
after your letter, as I really have a great esteem for
him. I could have wished to be present at the finish-
ing of the kitchen, as it is a mere machine; and,
being new to you, I think you will scarce know how
to work it; the several contrivances to carry off
steam, smell, and smoke not being fully explained to

1 These were A Narrative of the Late Massacres; Cool Thoughts; and
the Preface to Galloway's Speech. See supra.

154 The Works of [1765

you. The oven I suppose was put up by the written
directions in my former letter. You mention no-
thing of the furnace. If that iron one is not set, let
it alone till my return, when I shall bring a more
convenient copper one.

You wonder how I did to travel seventy-two miles
in a short winter day, on my landing in England, and
think I must have practised flying. But the roads
here are so good, with post-chaises and fresh horses
every ten or twelve miles, that it is no difficult mat-
ter. A lady, that I know, has come from Edinburgh
to London, being four hundred miles, in three days
and a half. You mention the payment of the £500
but do not say that you have got the deeds executed.
I suppose, however, that it was done. I received the
two post-office letters you sent me. It was not letters
of that sort alone that I wanted, but all such as were
sent to me from any one whomsoever.

I cannot but complain in my mind of Mr. Smith,
that the house is so long unfit for you to get into,
the fences not put up, nor the other necessary arti-
cles ready. The well I expected would have been
dug in the winter, or early in the spring, but I hear
nothing of it. You should have gardened long before
the date of your last, but it seems the rubbish was
not removed. I am much obliged to my good old
friends, that did me the honor to remember me in
the unfinished kitchen. I hope soon to drink with
them in the parlour.

I am very thankful to the good ladies you mention
for their friendly wishes. Present my best respects
to Mrs. Grace, and dear, precious Mrs. Shewell, Mrs.

1765] Benjamin Franklin 155

Masters, Mrs. and Miss Galloway, Mrs. Redman,
Mrs. Graeme, Mrs. Thomson, Mrs. Story, Mrs. Bar-
tram, Mrs. Smith, Mrs. Hilborne, and all the others
you have named to me. My love also to our brothers
and sisters, and cousins, as if particularly mentioned.
I have delivered yours to Mrs. and Miss Stevenson,
Mr. and Mrs. Strahan and their family, Mrs. Empson,
Mrs. West, and our country cousins. Miss Graham
has not come to town, as I have heard.

It rejoices me to learn, that you are more free than
you used to be from the headache, and that pain in
your side. I am likewise in perfect health. God is
very good to us both in many respects. Let us enjoy
his favors with a thankful and cheerful heart ; and, as
we can make no direct return to him, show our sense
of his goodness to us by continuing to do good to our
fellow creatures, without regarding the returns they
make us, whether good or bad. For they are all his
children, though they may sometimes be our enemies.
The friendships of this world are changeable, uncer-
tain, transitory things ; but his favor, if we can secure
it, is an inheritance for ever. I am, my dear Debby,
your ever loving husband,

B. Franklin.

CCLXIV

TO PETER FRANKLIN, AT NEWPORT

[No date.]

Dear Brother:

I like your ballad, and think it well adapted for
your purpose of discountenancing expensive foppery,

156 The Works of [1765

and encouraging industry and frugality. If you can
get it generally sung in your country, it may proba-
bly have a good deal of the effect you hope and expect
from it. But as you aimed at making it general, I
wonder you chose so uncommon a measure in poetry,
that none of the tunes in common use will suit it.
Had you fitted it to an old one, well known, it must
have spread much faster than I doubt it will do
from the best new tune we can get composed for
it. I think, too, that if you had given it to some
country girl in the heart of the Massachusetts, who
has never heard any other than psalm tunes, or Chevy
Chace, the Children in the Wood, the Spanish Lady,
and such old simple ditties, but has naturally a good
ear, she might more probably have made a pleasing
popular tune for you than any of our masters here,
and more proper for your purpose, which would best
be answered, if every word could as it is sung be un-
derstood by all that hear it, and if the emphasis you
intend for particular words could be given by the
singer as well as by the reader; much of the force
and impression of the song depending on those cir-
cumstances. I will, however, get it as well done for
you as I can.

Do not imagine that I mean to depreciate the skill
of our composers of music here ; they are admirable at
pleasing practised ears, and know how to delight one
another; but, in composing for songs, the reigning taste
seems to be quite out of nature, or rather the reverse
of nature, and yet, like a torrent, hurries them all
away with it; one or two perhaps only excepted.

You, in the spirit of some ancient legislators,

1765] Benjamin Franklin 157

would influence the manners of your country by the
united powers of poetry and music. By what I can
learn of their songs, the music was simple, conformed
itself to the usual pronunciation of words, as to
measure, cadence, or emphasis, &c, never disguised
and confounded the language by making a long sylla-
ble short, or a short one long, when sung ; their sing-
ing was only a more pleasing, because a melodious
manner of speaking ; it was capable of all the graces
of prose oratory, while it added the pleasure of har-
mony. A modern song, on the contrary, neglects all
the proprieties and beauties of common speech, and
in their place introduces its defects and absurdities as
so many graces. I am afraid you will hardly take my
word for this, and therefore I must endeavour to sup-
port it by proof. Here is the first song I lay my
hand on. It happens to be a composition of one of
our greatest masters, the ever-famous Handel. It is
not one of his juvenile performances, before his taste
could be improved and formed; it appeared when
his reputation was at the highest, is greatly admired
by all his admirers, and is really excellent in its kind.
It is called, " The additional favorite Song in Judas
Maccabeus." Now I reckon among the defects and
improprieties of common speech the following, viz. :

1 . Wrong placing the accent or emphasis, by laying
it on words of no importance, or on wrong syllables.

2. Drawling; or extending the sound of words or
syllables beyond their natural length.

3. Stuttering; or making many syllables of one.

4. Unintelligibleness; the result of the three fore-
going united.
The Works of

[1765

5. Tautology; and

6. Screaming without cause.

For the wrong placing of the accent, or emphasis,
see it on the word their instead of being on the word

vain.

1=2--

Ay^

tr

•**

*=4

j^^-N^^i

with their vain my - ste • rious. . . . art

And on the word from, and the wrong syllable
like.

tr.

tr.

^2:

m. 4 -<s>-

God - like wis - dom

from.

bove.

For the drawling, see the last syllable of the word
wounded.

fczfib

£

tr.

2±

Nor can heal the wound - ed. . heart.

And in the syllable wis, and the word from, and
syllable bove.

22:

5=z:

-Fr-»-

-5

IGfc

God - like wis - dom from a - Sow

For the stuttering, see the words ne'er relieve, in

n 1 n
/r.

B j£ J>= lEE*

Ma - gic.

charms can ne'er. ... re - Ke«e. . you.

1765] Benjamin Franklin 159

Here are four syllables made of one, and eight of
three ; but this is moderate. I have seen in another
song, that I cannot now find, seventeen syllables made
of three, and sixteen of one. The latter I remember
was the word charms; viz., cha, a, a, a, a, a, a, a,
a, a, a, a, a, a, a, arms. Stammering with a witness !

For the unintelligibleness, give this whole song to
any taught singer, and let her sing it to any company
that have never heard it. You shall find they will
not understand three words in ten. It is therefore
that, at the oratorios and operas, one sees with books
in their hands all those who desire to understand
what they hear sung by even our best performers.

For the tautology, you have, with their vain myste-
rious art, twice repeated; magic charms can ne'er re-
lieve you, three times. Nor can heal the wounded
heart, three times. Godlike wisdom from above,
twice; and this alone can ne'er deceive you, two or
three times. But this is reasonable when compared
with the Monster Polypheme, the Monster Polypheme,
a hundred times over and over in his admired Acis
and Galatea.

As to the screaming, perhaps I cannot find a fair
instance in this song; but whoever has frequented
our operas will remember many. And yet here
methinks the words no and e'er, when sung to these
notes, have a little of the air of screaming, and would
actually be screamed by some singers.

tr. t l f *r.

J I 1\ J%-

No ma - gic charms can e'er re - lieve you.

160 The Works of [1765

I send you enclosed the song with its music at
length. Read the words without the repetitions.
Observe how few they are, and what a shower of
notes attend them; you will then perhaps be in-
clined to think with me that, though the words might
be the principal part of an ancient song, they are of
small importance in a modern one. They are, in
short, only a pretence for singing.
I am, as ever,

Your affectionate brother,

B. Franklin.

P. S. — I might have mentioned inarticulation
among the defects in common speech that are as-
sumed as beauties in modern singing. But as that
seems more the fault of the singer than of the com-
poser, I omitted it in what related merely to the
composition. The fine singer, in the present mode,
stifles all the hard consonants, and polishes away all
the rougher parts of words that serve to distinguish
them one from another ; so that you hear nothing but
an admirable pipe, and understand no more of the
song than you would from its tune played on any
other instrument. If ever it was the ambition of
musicians to make instruments that should imitate
the human voice, that ambition seems now reversed,
the voice aiming to be like an instrument. Thus wigs
were first made to imitate a good natural head of hair ;
but when they became fashionable, though in un-
natural forms, we have seen natural hair dressed to
look like wigs.

1765] Benjamin Franklin 161

CCLXV

TO HUGH ROBERTS

London, 7 July, 1765.

Dear Friend: — Your kind favor of May 20th, by
the hand of our good friend Mr. Neave, gave me
great pleasure. I find, on those occasions, that ex-
pressions of steady, continued friendship, such as are
contained in your letter, though but from one or a
few honest and sensible men, who have long known
us, afford a satisfaction that far outweighs the clam-
orous abuse of a thousand knaves and fools. While
I enjoy the share I have so long had in the esteem of
my old friends, the bird-and-beast people you men-
tion may peck, and snarl, and bark at me as much as
they think proper. There is only some danger, that
I should grow too vain on their disapprobation.

I am pleased with your punning, not merely be-
cause I like punning in general, but because I learn
from your using it, that you are in good health and
spirits, which I pray may long continue. Our affairs
are at a total stop here, by the present unsettled
state of the ministry, but will go forward again as
soon as that is fixed. Nothing yet appears that is
discouraging.

I have not yet found an engraver that will do our
seal well and reasonably. Kirk asked me twenty
guineas, and some others a little less. I think we had
better content ourselves with the old one; but shall
inquire further.1 Remember me respectfully and

1 On the 20th of August he wrote: "I informed you lately, that
twenty guineas were demanded by Kirk for engraving the Hospital

VOL. IV. — II.

162 The Works of [1765

affectionately to your good dame and children, and
accept my thanks for your kind visits to my little
family in my absence.

I wish you would continue to meet the Junto, not-
withstanding that some effects of our public political
misunderstandings may sometimes appear there. It
is now perhaps one of the oldest clubs, as I think it
was formerly one of the best, in the King's dominions.
It wants but about two years of forty since it was
established. We loved and still love one another;
we are grown gray together, and yet it is too early
to part. Let us sit till the evening of life is spent.
The last hours are always the most joyous. When
we can stay no longer, it is time enough then to bid
each other good night, separate, and go quietly to
bed. Adieu, my dear friend, yours affectionately,

B. Franklin.

CCLXVI

TO CHARLES THOMSON

London, ii July, 1765.

Dear Friend: — I am extremely obliged by your
kind letters of April 12th and 14th, and thank you for
the intelligence they contain. The outrages continu-
ally committed by those misguided people will doubt-
less tend to convince all the considerate on your side
of the water of the weakness of our present govern-
ment, and the necessity of a change. I am sure it

seal. I have since found a man that will do it for ten, but I suppose
will hardly do it so well. Let me know your sentiments of this
expense."

1765] Benjamin Franklin 163

will contribute towards hastening that change here,
so that, upon the whole, good will be brought out of
evil ; and yet I grieve to hear of such horrid disorders.
The letters and accounts boasted of from the Pro-
prietor, of his being sure of his retaining the govern-
ment, as well as those of the sums offered for it,
which the people will be obliged to pay, &c, are all
idle tales, fit only for knaves to propagate, and fools
to believe. A little time will dissipate all the smoke
they can raise to conceal the real state of things.

The unsettled state of the ministry, ever since the
Parliament rose, has stopped all proceeding in public
affairs, and ours amongst the rest; but, change being
now made, we shall immediately proceed, and with a
greater cheerfulness, as some we had reason to doubt
of are removed, and some particular friends are put
in place. What you mentioned of the Lower Coun-
ties is undoubtedly right. Had they ever sent their
laws home,1 as they ought to have done, that iniqui-
tous one of priority of payment to residents would
undoubtedly have been repealed. But the end of all
these things is nigh; at least it seems to be so.

The spiking of the guns was an audacious piece of
villany, by whomsoever done. It shows the neces-
sity of a regular enclosed place of defence, with a
constant guard to take care of what belongs to it,
which, when the country can afford it, will, I hope,
be provided.

Depend upon it, my good neighbour, I took every
step in my power to prevent the passing of the Stamp

1 By home here is meant England, a common use of the word before
the Revolution.

164 The Works of [1765

Act. Nobody could be more concerned and inter-
ested than myself, to oppose it sincerely and heartily.
But the tide was too strong against us. The nation
was provoked by American claims of independence,1
and all parties joined in resolving by this act to settle
the point. We might as well have hindered the sun's
setting. That we could not do. But since it is
down, my friend, and it may be long before it rises
again, let us make as good a night of it as we can.
We may still light candles. Frugality and industry
will go a great way towards indemnifying us. Idle-
ness and pride tax with a heavier hand than kings
and parliaments. If we can get rid of the former,
we may easily bear the latter.2

My best respects to Mrs. Thomson. Adieu, my
dear friend, and believe me ever yours affectionately,

B. Franklin.

CCLXVII

TO MRS. DEBORAH FRANKLIN

London, 13 July, 1765.

My Dear Child : — I had the great pleasure of hear-
ing from you and Sally last night by the packet. I

1 Claims to an independence of Parliament, in regard to the power
of taxing the colonists without their consent.

2 In the Sparks' editions of Franklin's works this sentence reads:
"If we can get rid of the former, we may easily get rid of the latter."
Referring to this sentence, Mr. Bancroft, at p. 306 of the fifth volume
of the first edition of his History of the United States, says:

"For the opportunity of printing the above paragraph correctly in
Franklin's own words, I am indebted to Mrs. Chamberlain, of Newark,

i765] Benjamin Franklin 165

cannot now answer every particular of your letters,
having many to write that are to go by this day's
mail, but will by the next opportunity. Mrs. Steven-
son bids me tell Sally, that the striped gown I
sent her will wash, but it must be with a light hand.
I am glad to hear of Captain Robinson's arrival, and
it gives me pleasure that so many of my friends
honoured our new dining-room with their company.
You tell me of a fault they found with the house, that
it was too little, and not a word of any thing they
liked in it, nor how the kitchen chimneys perform;
so I suppose you spare me some mortification, which
is kind. I wonder you put up the oven without Mr.
Roberts's advice, as I think you told me he had my
old letter of directions; but I can add no more, only
that I am very well and in good spirits. I wrote you
largely by Captain Friend, and sent a case with a
number of particulars. My love to all. Your affec-
tionate husband,

B. Franklin.

Delaware, who has the original in her possession. The copy was made
for me with the utmost exactness, by Mr. A. H. Grimshaw of Wilming-
ton, and carefully compared with the original by Mr. Grimshaw and
one' of his friends. There is another version in circulation which makes
Franklin say: 'Idleness and pride tax us with a heavier hand than
kings and parliaments. If we can get rid of the former, we can get
rid of the latter.'

' ' This is not what Franklin wrote. To ' bear ' with kings and parlia-
ments and to 'get rid of kings and parliaments are very different
things. Franklin was long-suffering and waited some years yet be-
fore he advised to get rid of kings. He himself printed a part of this
letter, but with amplifications, in the London Chronicle of Nov. 14 to
16, 1765, from which it was copied into Weyman's New York Gazette
of February 3, and other papers. In all of them, as well as the letter
itself, the words are, 'bear the latter' and 'get rid1 of the former."

1 66 The Works of [1766

CCLXVIII

LETTER CONCERNING THE GRATITUDE OF AMERICA

AND THE PROBABILITY AND EFFECTS OF A UNION WITH GREAT
BRITAIN; AND CONCERNING THE REPEAL OR SUS-
PENSION OF THE STAMP ACT

[London,] January 6, 1766.

Sir: — I have attentively perused the paper you
sent me, and am of opinion that the measure it pro-
poses, of an union with the colonies, is a wise one;
but I doubt it will hardly be thought so here, till it is
too late to attempt it. The time has been, when the
colonies would have esteemed it a great advantage,
as well as honor, to be permitted to send members to
Parliament ; and would have asked for that privilege,
if they could have had the least hopes of obtaining it.
The time is now come when they are indifferent
about it, and will probably not ask it, though they
might accept it if offered them; and the time will
come, when they will certainly refuse it. But if such
an union were now established (which methinks it
highly imports this country to establish) it would
probably subsist as long as Britain shall continue a
nation. This people, however, is too proud, and too
much despises the Americans, to bear the thought of
admitting them to such an equitable participation in
the government of the whole.

Then the next best thing seems to be, leaving
them in the quiet enjoyment of their respective con-
stitutions ; and when money is wanted for any public
service, in which they ought to bear a part, calling

1766] Benjamin Franklin 167

upon them by requisitorial letters from the crown
(according to the long-established custom) to grant
such aids as their loyalty shall dictate, and their abili-
ties permit. The very sensible and benevolent au-
thor of that paper seems not to have known, that
such a constitutional custom subsists, and has always
hitherto been practised in America ; or he would not
have expressed himself in this manner: "It is evi-
dent, beyond a doubt, to the intelligent and impar-
tial, that after the very extraordinary efforts, which
were effectually made by Great Britain in the late
war to save the colonists from destruction, and at-
tended of necessity with an enormous load of debts
in consequence, that the same colonists, now firmly
secured from foreign enemies, should be somehow in-
duced to contribute some proportion towards the exi-
gencies of state in future." This looks as if he
conceived the war had been carried on at the sole
expense of Great Britain, and the colonies only
reaped the benefit, without hitherto sharing the bur-
den, and were therefore now indebted to Britain on
that account. And this is the same kind of argu-
ment that is used by those who would fix on the
colonies the heavy charge of unreasonableness and
ingratitude, which I think your friend did not intend.
Please to acquaint him, then, that the fact is not
so ; that, every year during the war, requisitions were
made by the crown on the colonies for raising money
and men ; that accordingly they made more extraor-
dinary efforts, in proportion to their abilities, than
Britain did; that they raised, paid, and clothed, for
five or six years, near twenty-five thousand men,

1 68 The Works of [1766

besides providing for other services, as building forts,
equipping guard-ships, paying transports, &c. And
that this was more than their fair proportion is not
merely an opinion of mine, but was the judgment of
government here, in full knowledge of all the facts;
for the then ministry, to make the burden more
equal, recommended the case to Parliament, and ob-
tained a reimbursement to the Americans of about
two hundred thousand pounds sterling every year;
which amounted only to about two fifths of their ex-
pense; and great part of the rest lies still a load of
debt upon them; heavy taxes on all their estates,
real and personal, being laid by acts of their assem-
blies to discharge it, and yet will not discharge it in
many years.

While, then, these burdens continue; while Britain
restrains the colonies in every branch of commerce
and manufactures that she thinks interferes with her
own ; while she drains the colonies, by her trade with
them, of all the cash they can procure by every art
and industry in any part of the world, and thus keeps
them always in her debt (for they can make no law to
discourage the importation of your to them ruinous
superfluities, as you do the superfluities of France;
since such a law would immediately be reported
against by your Board of Trade, and repealed by the
crown); I say. while these circumstances continue,
and while there subsists the established method of
royal requisitions for raising money on them by their
own assemblies on every proper occasion; can it be
necessary or prudent to distress and vex them by
taxes laid here, in a Parliament wherein they have no

1766] Benjamin Franklin 169

representative, and in a manner which they look upon
to be unconstitutional and subversive of their most
valuable rights? And are they to be thought un-
reasonable and ungrateful if they oppose such taxes ?

Wherewith, they say, shall we show our loyalty to
our gracious King, if our money is to be given by
others, without asking our consent? And, if the
Parliament has a right thus to take from us a penny
in the pound, where is the line drawn that bounds
that right, and what shall hinder their calling, when-
ever they please, for the other nineteen shillings and
eleven pence ? Have we then any thing that we can
call our own? It is more than probable, that bring-
ing representatives from the colonies to sit and act
here as members of Parliament, thus uniting and
consolidating your dominions, would in a little time
remove these objections and difficulties, and make
the future government of the colonies easy ; but, till
some such thing is done, I apprehend no taxes, laid
there by Parliament here, will ever be collected, but
such as must be stained with blood; and I am sure
the profit of such taxes will never answer the expense
of collecting them, and that the respect and affection
of the Americans to this country will in the struggle
be totally lost, perhaps never to be recovered; and
therewith all the commercial and political advan-
tages, that might have attended the continuance of
this respect and this affection.

In my own private judgment, I think an immediate
repeal of the Stamp Act would be the best measure
for this country ; but a suspension of it for three years
the best for that. The repeal would fill them with

170 The Works of [1766

joy and gratitude, reestablish their respect and vene-
ration for Parliament, restore at once their ancient
and natural love for this country, and their regard
for every thing that comes from it ; hence the trade
would be renewed in all its branches; they would
again indulge in all the expensive superfluities you
supply them with, and their new-assumed home in-
dustry would languish. But the suspension, though
it might continue their fears and anxieties, would at
the same time keep up their resolutions of industry
and frugality; which in two or three years would
grow into habits, to their lasting advantage. How-
ever, as the repeal will probably not be now agreed
to,1 from what I think a mistaken opinion, that the
honor and dignity of government is better supported
by persisting in a wrong measure once entered into,
than by rectifying an error as soon as it is discovered ;
we must allow the next best thing for the advantage
of both countries is the suspension ; for, as to execut-
ing the act by force, it is madness, and will be ruin to
the whole.

The rest of your friend's reasonings and proposi-
tions appear to me truly just and judicious. I will
therefore only add, that I am as desirous of his
acquaintance and intimacy as he was of my opinion.
I am, with much esteem,

Your obliged friend,

B. Franklin."

1 It was, however, agreed to in the same year, viz., in 1766. — B. V.

2 The name of the person to whom this letter is addressed is not
known. The letter, to which it is a reply, appears to have contained
the letter of some third person equally unknown. — B. V.

1766] Benjamin Franklin 171

CCLXIX

THE EXAMINATION OF DR. BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

IN THE

BRITISH HOUSE OF COMMONS

RELATIVE TO THE
REPEAL OF THE AMERICAN STAMP ACT, IN 17661

From the journal of the House of Commons, as given
by Mr. Vaughan.

"February 3, 1766. Benjamin Franklin and a number
of other persons ordered to attend the committee of the
whole House, to whom it was referred to consider farther
the several papers, which were presented to the House
by Mr. Secretary Conway.

"February 13th. Benjamin Franklin, having passed

1 As soon as the Stamp Act was promulgated in the colonies, a
cloud of petitions from their various assemblies was showered upon
the Parliament for its repeal. The stamped paper was rejected as if
it were poisoned; vessels were forbidden to land it; the distributors
were compelled to resign their commissions; Hughes dared not show
himself on the streets, nor did Franklin entirely escape. A caricature
of the period represents the Devil whispering in his ear: "Ben, you
shall be my agent throughout my dominions." His house and family
even were supposed at one time to be in peril from the mob, as ap-
pears by the following extract from a letter written him by his wife
on the 2 2d September:

"You will see by the papers what work has happened in other
places, and something has been said relative to raising a mob in this
place. I was for nine days kept in a continual hurry by people to
remove; and Sally was persuaded to go to Burlington [the residence
of her brother, the governor] for safety; but, on Monday last, we had
very great rejoicing on account of the change in the ministry, and a
preparation for bonfires at night, and several houses threatened to be
pulled down.

"Cousin Davenport came and told me that more than twenty
people had told him it was his duty to be with us. I said I was pleased
to receive civility from any body, so he staid with me some time.
Towards night I said he should fetch a gun or two, as we had none. I

172 The Works of [1766

through his examination, was excepted from farther
attendance.

"February 24th. The resolutions of the committee
were reported by the chairman, Mr. Fuller; their sev-
enth and last resolution, setting forth that it was their
opinion that the House be moved that leave be given to
bring in a bill to repeal the Stamp Act."

The account of the examination was first published in
1767, without the name of printer or publisher. It was
translated into French, and widely circulated in Europe.
It has been frequently reprinted in both the English and
French languages. — Editor.

sent to ask my brother to come, and bring his gun also, so we [turned]
one room into a magazine; I ordered some sort of defence up-stairs,
such as I could manage myself. I said when I was advised to remove,
that I was very sure you had done nothing to anybody, nor had I
given any offence to any person at all, nor would I be uneasy by any-
body, nor would I stir or show the least uneasiness, but if any one
came to disturb me, I should show a proper resentment, and I should
be very much affronted with anybody.

"Sally was gone with Miss Rose to see Captain Real's daughter, and
heard the report there, and came home to be with me; but I had sent
her word not to come. I was told there were eight hundred men
ready to assist any one that should be molested.

"Billy [the Governor of New Jersey] came down to ask us up to
Burlington. I consented to Sally's going, but I will not stir, as I
really don't think it would be right for me to show the least uneasi-
ness at all.

"It is Mr. Samuel Smith that is setting the people mad by telling
them it was you that had planned the Stamp Act, and that you are
endeavoring to get the Test Act brought over here."

Such was the state of affairs in America when the subject was again
brought before Parliament in the beginning of '66, the Marquis of
Rockingham having displaced Mr. Grenville.

The new ministers resolved to recommend a repeal of the Stamp
Act. While the question was under debate in Parliament, a motion
which probably originated with the ministers who were not striving
to effect a repeal of the act, was adopted, that Franklin be called be-
fore the House, and examined respecting the state of affairs in America.
This is the report of his examination. — Editor.

1766] Benjamin Franklin 173

Q. What is your name and place of abode?

A. Franklin, of Philadelphia.

Q. Do the Americans pay any considerable taxes
among themselves ?

A. Certainly, many and very heavy taxes.

Q. What are the present taxes in Pennsylvania,
laid by the laws of the colony?

A. There are taxes on all estates, real and per-
sonal; a poll tax; a tax on all offices, professions,
trades, and businesses, according to their profits ; an
excise on all wine, rum, and other spirits; and a duty
of ten pounds per head on all negroes imported, with
some other duties.

Q. For what purposes are those taxes laid?

A . For the support of the civil and military estab-
lishments of the country, and to discharge the heavy
debt contracted in the last war.

Q. How long are those taxes to continue?

A . Those for discharging the debt are to continue
till 1772, and longer, if the debt should not be then
all discharged. The others must always continue.

Q. Was it not expected that the debt would have
been sooner discharged?

A . It was, when the peace was made with France
and Spain. But a fresh war breaking out with the
Indians, a fresh load of debt was incurred ; and the
taxes, of course, continued longer by a new law.

Q. Are not all the people very able to pay those
taxes ?

A. No. The frontier counties, all along the con-
tinent, having been frequently ravaged by the enemy
and greatly impoverished, are able to pay very little

174 The Works of E**66

tax. And therefore, in consideration of their dis-
tresses, our late tax laws do expressly favor those
counties, excusing the sufferers; and I suppose the
same is done in other governments.

Q. Are not you concerned in the management of
the post-office in America?

A. Yes. I am deputy-postmaster-general of
North America.

Q. Don't you think the distribution of stamps by
post to all the inhabitants very practicable, if there
was no opposition ?

A. The posts only go along the sea-coasts : they
do not, except in a few instances, go back into the
country; and, if they did, sending for stamps by post
would occasion an expense of postage amounting in
many cases to much more than that of the stamps
themselves.

Q. Are you acquainted with Newfoundland?
A. I never was there.

Q. Do you know whether there are any post-roads
on that island?

A . I have heard that there are no roads at all, but
that the communication between one settlement and
another is by sea only.

Q. Can you disperse the stamps by post in
Canada ?

A. There is only a post between Montreal and
Quebec. The inhabitants live so scattered and re-
mote from each other in that vast country, that posts
cannot be supported among them, and therefore they
cannot get stamps per post. The English colonies,
too, along the frontiers are very thinly settled.

1766] Benjamin Franklin 175

Q. From the thinness of the back settlements
would not the Stamp Act be extremely inconvenient
to the inhabitants, if executed?

A. To be sure it would; as many of the inhabi-
tants could not get stamps when they had occasion
for them without taking long journeys, and spending
perhaps three or four pounds, that the crown might
get sixpence.

Q. Are not the colonies, from their circumstances,
very able to pay the stamp duty?

A. In my opinion there is not gold and silver
enough in the colonies to pay the stamp duty for one
year.1

Q. Don't you know that the money arising from
the stamps was all to be laid out in America?

A. I know it is appropriated by the act to the
American service; but it will be spent in the con-
quered colonies, where the soldiers are; not in the
colonies that pay it.

Q. Is there not a balance of trade due from the
colonies where the troops are posted, that will bring
back the money to the old colonies?

1 The Stamp Act said: "that the Americans shall have no com-
merce, make no exchange of property with each other, neither pur-
chase, nor grant, nor recover debts; they shall neither marry nor
make their wills, unless they pay such and such sums" in specie for
the stamps which must give validity to the proceedings. The opera-
tion of such a tax, had it obtained the consent of the people, appeared
inevitable; and its annual productiveness, on its introduction, was
estimated, by its proposer in the House of Commons at the committee
for supplies, at one hundred thousand pounds sterling. The colonies
being already reduced to the necessity of having paper money, by
sending to Britain the specie they collected in foreign trade, in order
to make up for the deficiency of their other returns for British manu-
factures, there were doubts whether there could remain specie sufficient
to answer the tax. — B. V.

176 The Works of [1766

A. I think not. I believe very little would come
back. I know of no trade likely to bring it back. I
think it would come, from the colonies where it was
spent, directly to England; for I have always ob-
served, that in every colony the more plenty the
means of remittance to England, the more goods are
sent for, and the more trade with England carried on.

Q. What number of white inhabitants do you
think there are in Pennsylvania?

A. I suppose there may be about one hundred
and sixty thousand.

Q. What number of them are Quakers?

A. Perhaps a third.

Q. What number of Germans?

A. Perhaps another third; but I cannot speak
with certainty.

Q. Have any number of the Germans seen service,
as soldiers, in Europe?

A. Yes, many of them, both in Europe and
America.

Q. Are they as much dissatisfied with the stamp
duty as the English?

A. Yes, and more; and with reason, as their
stamps are, in many cases, to be double.1

Q. How many white men do you suppose there
are in North America?

1 The Stamp Act provided that a double duty should be laid "where
the instrument, proceedings, &c, shall be engrossed, written, or
printed within the said colonies and plantations, in any other than the
English language." This measure, it is presumed, appeared to be
suggested by motives of convenience, and the policy of assimilating
persons of foreign to those of British descent, and preventing their in-
terference in the conduct of law business till this change should be
affected. It seems, however, to have been deemed too precipitate,

1766] Benjamin Franklin 177

A. About three hundred thousand, from sixteen
to sixty years of age.1

Q. What may be the amount of one year's im-
ports into Pennsylvania from Britain ?

A . I have been informed that our merchants com-
pute the imports from Britain to be above five hun-
dred thousand pounds.

Q. What may be the amount of the produce of
your province exported to Britain ?

A. It must be small, as we produce little that is
wanted in Britain. I suppose it cannot exceed forty
thousand pounds.

Q. How then do you pay the balance ?

A . The balance is paid by our produce carried to
the West Indies, and sold in our own islands, or to
the French, Spaniards, Danes, and Dutch; by the
same produce carried to other colonies in North
America, as to New England, Nova Scotia, New-
foundland, Carolina, and Georgia ; by the same, car-
ried to different parts of Europe, as Spain, Portugal,
and Italy. In all which places we receive either
money, bills of exchange, or commodities that suit for
remittance to Britain; which, together with all the
profits on the industry of our merchants and mariners,
arising in those circuitous voyages, and the freights

immediately to extend this clause to newly conquered countries. An
exemption therefore was granted, in this particular, with respect to
Canada and Grenada, for the space of five years, to be reckoned from
the commencement of the duty. See the Stamp Act. — B. V.

1 Strangers excluded, some parts of the northern colonies doubled
their numbers in fifteen or sixteen years; to the southward they were
longer; but, taking one with another, they had doubled, by natural
generation only, once in twenty-five years. Pennsylvania, including
strangers, had doubled in about sixteen years. — B. V.

VOL.. IV. 12.

178 The Works of [1766

made by their ships, centre finally in Britain to dis-
charge the balance, and pay for British manufactures
continually used in the provinces, or sold to foreigners
by our traders.

Q. Have you heard of any difficulties lately laid
on the Spanish trade?

A . Yes ; I have heard that it has been greatly ob-
structed by some new regulations, and by the Eng-
lish men-of-war and cutters stationed all along the
coast in America.

Q. Do you think it right that America should be
protected by this country and pay no part of the
expense ?

A. That is not the case. The colonies raised,
clothed, and paid, during the last war, near twenty-
five thousand men, and spent many millions.

Q. Were you not reimbursed by Parliament ?

A . We were only reimbursed what, in your opin-
ion, we had advanced beyond our proportion, or be-
yond what might reasonably be expected from us;
and it was a very small part of what we spent.
Pennsylvania, in particular, disbursed about five
hundred thousand pounds, and the reimbursements,
in the whole, did not exceed sixty thousand pounds.

Q. You have said that you pay heavy taxes in
Pennsylvania; what do they amount to in the
pound ?

A. The tax on all estates, real and personal, is
eighteen pence in the pound, fully rated ; and the tax
on the profits of trades and professions, with other
taxes, do, I suppose, make full half a crown in the
pound.

1766] Benjamin Franklin 179

Q. Do you know any thing of the rate of exchange
in Pennsylvania, and whether it has fallen lately ?

A . It is commonly from one hundred and seventy
to one hundred and seventy-five. I have heard that
it has fallen lately from one hundred and seventy-five
to one hundred and sixty- two and a half; owing, I
suppose, to their lessening their orders for goods ; and
when their debts to this country are paid, I think the
exchange will probably be at par.

Q. Do you not think the people of America would
submit to pay the stamp duty, if it was moderated?

A. No, never, unless compelled by force of arms.

Q. Are not the taxes in Pennsylvania laid on un-
equally, in order to burden the English trade;
particularly the tax on professions and business?

A . It is not more burdensome in proportion than
the tax on lands. It is intended and supposed to
take an equal proportion of profits.

Q. How is the assembly composed? Of what
kinds of people are the members; landholders or
traders ?

A. It is composed of landholders, merchants, and
artificers.

Q. Are not the majority landholders?

A. I believe they are.

Q. Do not they, as much as possible, shift the tax
off from the land, to ease that, and lay the burden
heavier on trade?

A. I have never understood it so. I never heard
such a thing suggested. And indeed an attempt of
that kind could answer no purpose. The merchant
or trader is always skilled in figures, and ready with

180 The Works of [1766

his pen and ink. If unequal burdens are laid on his
trade, he puts an additional price on his goods ; and
the consumers, who are chiefly landholders, finally
pay the greatest part, if not the whole.

Q. What was the temper of America towards
Great Britain before the year 1763? *

A. The best in the world. They submitted will-
ingly to the government of the crown, and paid, in
their courts, obedience to the acts of Parliament.
Numerous as the people are in the several old pro-
vinces, they cost you nothing in forts, citadels, garri-
sons, or armies to keep them in subjection. They

1 In the year 1733, "for the welfare and prosperity of our sugar
colonies in America," and "for remedying discouragement of planters,"
duties were "given and granted" to George the Second upon all rum,
spirits, molasses, syrups, sugar, and paneles of foreign growth, pro-
duce, and manufacture, imported into the colonies. This regulation
of trade, for the benefit of the general empire was acquiesced in, not-
withstanding the introduction of the novel terms "give and grant."
But the act, which was made only for the term of five years, and had
been several times renewed in the reign of George the Second, and
once in the reign of George the Third, was renewed again in the year
1763, in the reign of George the Third, and extended to other articles
upon new and altered grounds. It was stated in the preamble to this
act, " that it was expedient that new provisions and regulations should
be established for improving the revenue of this kingdom" ; that it
"was just and necessary that a revenue should be raised in America
for defending, protecting, and securing the same"; and that the Com-
mons of Great Britain, desirous of making some provision towards
raising the said revenue in America, have resolved to give and grant to
his Majesty the several rates and duties," &c. Mr. Mauduit, agent for
Massachusetts Bay, tells us, that he was instructed in the following
terms to oppose Mr. Grenville's taxing system. "You are to remon-
strate against these measures, and, if possible, to obtain a repeal of
the Sugar Act, and prevent the imposition of any further duties or
taxes on the colonies. Measures will be taken that you may be joined
by all the other agents. Boston, June 14th, 1764."

The question proposed to Dr. Franklin alludes to this sugar act in
1763. Dr. Franklin's answer particularly merits the attention of the
historian and politician. — B. V.

if 66] Benjamin Franklin 181

were governed by this country at the expense only of
a little pen, ink, and paper; they were led by a
thread. They had not only a respect, but an affec-
tion for Great Britain ; for its laws, its customs and
manners, and even a fondness for its fashions, that
greatly increased the commerce. Natives of Britain
were always treated with particular regard. To be
an Old-England man was, of itself, a character of
some respect, and gave a kind of rank among us.

Q. And what is their temper now?

A. O, very much altered.

Q. Did you ever hear the authority of Parliament
to make laws for America questioned till lately?

A . The authority of Parliament was allowed to be
valid in all laws, except such as should lay internal
taxes. It was never disputed in laying duties to
regulate commerce.

Q. In what proportion hath population increased
in America?

A. I think the inhabitants of all the provinces
together, taken at a medium, double in about twenty-
five years. But their demand for British manufac-
tures increases much faster, as the consumption is
not merely in proportion to their numbers, but grows
with the growing abilities of the same numbers to
pay for them. In 1723 the whole importation from
Britain to Pennsylvania was about fifteen thousand
pounds sterling. It is now near half a million.

Q. In what light did the people of America use to
consider the Parliament of Great Britain ?

A. They considered the Parliament as the great
bulwark and security of their liberties and privileges,

182 The Works of [1766

and always spoke of it with the utmost respect and
veneration. Arbitrary ministers, they thought,
might possibly at times attempt to oppress them;
but they relied on it that the Parliament, on applica-
tion, would always give redress. They remembered,
with gratitude, a strong instance of this when a bill
was brought into Parliament with a clause to make
royal instructions laws in the colonies, which the
House of Commons would not pass, and it was thrown
out.

Q. And have they not still the same respect for
Parliament ?

A. No, it is greatly lessened.

Q. To what cause is that owing?

A. To a concurrence of causes; the restraints
lately laid on their trade, by which the bringing of
foreign gold and silver into the colonies was pre-
vented; the prohibition of making paper money
among themselves, and then demanding a new and
heavy tax by stamps, taking away at the same time
trials by juries, and refusing to receive and hear their
humble petitions.

Q. Don't you think they would submit to the
Stamp Act, if it was modified, the obnoxious parts
taken out, and the duty reduced to some particulars
of small moment?

A. No, they will never submit to it.

Q. What do you think is the reason the people in
America increase faster than in England ?

A. Because they marry younger, and more
generally.

Q. Why so?

1766] Benjamin Franklin 183

A. Because any young couple that are indus-
trious, may easily obtain land of their own, on which
they can raise a family.

Q. Are not the lower ranks of people more at
their ease in America than in England ?

A . They may be so, if they are sober and diligent,
as they are better paid for their labor.

Q. What is your opinion of a future tax, imposed
on the same principle with that of the Stamp Act?
How would the Americans receive it?

A. Just as they do this. They would not pay it.

Q. Have not you heard of the resolutions of this
House, and of the House of Lords, asserting the
right of Parliament relating to America, including a
power to tax the people there?

A. Yes, I have heard of such resolutions.

Q. What will be the opinion of the Americans on
those resolutions?

A. They will think them unconstitutional and
unjust.

Q. Was it an opinion in America before 1763, that
the Parliament had no right to lay taxes and duties
there ?

A. I never heard any objection to the right of
laying duties to regulate commerce ; but the right to
lay internal taxes was never supposed to be in
Parliament, as we are not represented there.

Q. On what do you found your opinion, that the
people in America made any such distinction?

A. I know that whenever the subject has oc-
curred in conversation where I have been present, it
has appeared to be the opinion of every one, that we

184 The Works of [1766

could not be taxed by a Parliament wherein we were
not represented. But the payment of duties laid by
an act of Parliament, as regulations of commerce,
was never disputed.

Q. But can you name any act of assembly, or pub-
lic act of any of your governments, that made such
distinction ?

A. I do not know that there was any; I think
there was never an occasion to make any such act, till
now that you have attempted to tax us ; that has
occasioned resolutions of assembly, declaring the dis-
tinction, in which I think every assembly on the
continent, and every member in every assembly,
have been unanimous.

Q. What, then, could occasion conversations on
that subject before that time?

A . There was in 1 7 54 a proposition made, (I think
it came from hence,) that in case of a war, which was
then apprehended, the governors of the colonies
should meet, and order the levying of troops, build-
ing of forts, and taking every other measure for the
general defence; and should draw on the treasury
here for the sums expended, which were afterwards
to be raised in the colonies by a general tax, to be
laid on them by act of Parliament. This occasioned
a good deal of conversation on the subject; and the
general opinion was, that the Parliament neither
would nor could lay any tax on us, till we were
duly represented in Parliament; because it was not
just, nor agreeable to the nature of an English
constitution.

Q. Don't you know there was a time in New York,

1766] Benjamin Franklin 185

when it was under consideration to make an applica-
tion to Parliament to lay taxes on that colony, upon
a deficiency arising from the assembly's refusing or
neglecting to raise the necessary supplies for the sup-
port of the civil government?

A. I never heard of it.

Q. There was such an application under considera-
tion in New York ; and do you apprehend they
could suppose the right of Parliament to lay a tax in
America was only local, and confined to the case of
a deficiency in a particular colony, by a refusal of its
assembly to raise the necessary supplies?

A. They could not suppose such a case, as that
the assembly would not raise the necessary supplies
to support its own government. An assembly that
would refuse it must want common sense ; which can-
not be supposed. I think there was never any such
case at New York, and that it must be a misrepre-
sentation, or the fact must be misunderstood. I
know there have been some attempts, by ministerial
instructions from hence, to oblige the assemblies to
settle permanent salaries on governors, which they
wisely refused to do; but I believe no assembly of
New York, or any other colony, ever refused duly to
support government by proper allowances, from time
to time, to public officers.

Q. But, in case a governor, acting by instruction,
should call on an assembly to raise the necessary sup-
plies, and the assembly should refuse to do it, do you
not think it would then be for the good of the people
of the colony, as well as necessary to government,
that the Parliament should tax them?

1 86 The Works of [1766

A. I do not think it would be necessary. If an
assembly could possibly be so absurd, as to refuse
raising the supplies requisite for the maintenance
of government among them, they could not long
remain in such a situation ; the disorders and
confusion occasioned by it must soon bring them to
reason.

Q. If it should not, ought not the right to be in
Great Britain of applying a remedy?

A. A right, only to be used in such a case, I
should have no objection to; supposing it to be used
merely for the good of the people of the colony.

Q. But who is to judge of that, Britain or the
colony?

A. Those that feel can best judge.

Q. You say the colonies have always submitted to
external taxes, and object to the right of Parliament
only in laying internal taxes ; now can you show that
there is any kind of difference between the two taxes
to the colony on which they may be laid?

A. I think the difference is very great. An exter-
nal tax is a duty laid on commodities imported ; that
duty is added to the first cost and other charges on
the commodity, and, when it is offered to sale, makes
a part of the price. If the people do not like it at
that price, they refuse it ; they are not obliged to pay
it. But an internal tax is forced from the people
without their consent, if not laid by their own repre-
sentatives. The Stamp Act says, we shall have no
commerce, make no exchange of property with each
other, neither purchase, nor grant, nor recover debts;
we shall neither marry nor make our wills, unless we

1766] Benjamin Franklin 187

pay such and such sums; and thus it is intended to
extort our money from us, or ruin us by the conse-
quences of refusing to pay it.

Q. But supposing the external tax or duty to be
laid on the necessaries of life imported into your
colony, will not that be the same thing in its effects
as an internal tax?

A. I do not know a single article imported into
the northern colonies, but what they can either do
without, or make themselves.

Q. Don't you think cloth from England absolutely
necessary to them.

A. No, by no means absolutely necessary; with
industry and good management they may very well
supply themselves with all they want.

Q. Will it not take a long time to establish that
manufacture among them ; and must they not in the
meanwhile suffer greatly?

A. I think not. They have made a surprising
progress already. And I am of opinion that before
their old clothes are worn out they will have new
ones of their own making.

Q. Can they possibly find wool enough in North
America.

A. They have taken steps to increase the wool.
They entered into general combinations to eat no
more lamb ; and very few lambs were killed last year.
This course, persisted in, will soon make a prodigious
difference in the quantity of wool. And the estab-
lishing of great manufactories, like those in the
clothing towns here, is not necessary, as it is where
the business is to be carried on for the purposes of

l88 The Works of

[1766

trade. The people will all spin and work for them-
selves in their own houses.

Q. Can there be wool and manufacture enough in
one or two years ?

A. In three years, I think there may.

Q. Does not the severity of the winter, in the
northern colonies, occasion the wool to be of bad
quality?

A. No; the wool is very fine and good.

Q. In the more southern colonies, as in Virginia,
don't you know that the wool is coarse and only a
kind of hair?

A. I don't know it. I never heard it. Yet I
have been sometimes in Virginia. I cannot say
I ever took particular notice of the wool there, but I
believe it is good, though I cannot speak positively of
it; but Virginia and the colonies south of it have less
occasion for wool; their winters are short, and not
very severe ; and they can very well clothe themselves
with linen and cotton of their own raising for the rest
of the year.

Q. Are not the people in the more northern colo-
nies obliged to fodder their sheep all the winter?

A. In some of the most northern colonies they
may be obliged to do it some part of the winter.

Q. Considering the resolutions of Parliament,1 as
to the right, do you think, if the Stamp Act is re-
pealed, that the North Americans will be satisfied?

A. I believe they will.

Q. Why do you think so ?

A. I think the resolutions of right will give them

1 Afterwards expressed in the Declaratory Act. — B. V.

i766] Benjamin Franklin l89

very little concern, if they are never attempted to be
carried into practice. The colonies will probably
consider themselves in the same situation, in that
respect, with Ireland; they know you claim the same
right with regard to Ireland; but you never exercise
it, and they may believe you never will exercise it in
the colonies, any more than in Ireland, unless on some
very extraordinary occasion.

Q. But who are to be the judges of that extraor-
dinary occasion? Is not the Parliament?

A . Though the Parliament may judge of the occa-
sion, the people will think it can never exercise such
right, till representatives from the colonies are admit-
ted into Parliament ; and that, whenever the occasion
arises, representatives will be ordered.

Q. Did you ever hear that Maryland, during the
last war, had refused to furnish a quota towards the
common defence?

A. Maryland has been much misrepresented in
this matter. Maryland, to my knowledge, never re-
fused to contribute or grant aids to the crown. The
assemblies, every year during the war, voted con-
siderable sums, and formed bills to raise them. The
bills were, according to the constitution of that pro-
vince, sent up to the Council, or Upper House, for
concurrence, that they might be represented to the
governor, in order to be enacted into laws. Un-
happy disputes between the two Houses, arising
from the defects of that constitution principally,
rendered all the bills but one or two abortive.
The proprietary's council rejected them. It is true,
Maryland did not then contribute its proportion;

190 The Works of [1766

but it was, in my opinion, the fault of the govern-
ment, not of the people.

Q. Was it not talked of in the other provinces,
as a proper measure, to apply to Parliament to com-
pel them?

A. I have heard such discourse; but, as it was
well known that the people were not to blame, no
such application was ever made, nor any step taken
towards it.

Q. Was it not proposed at a public meeting?

A . Not that I know of.

Q. Do you remember the abolishing of the paper
currency in New England, by act of assembly ?

A . I do remember its being abolished in the Mas-
sachusetts Bay.

Q. Was not Lieutenant-Governor Hutchinson
principally concerned in that transaction?

A. I have heard so.

Q. Was it not at that time a very unpopular law?

A. I believe it might, though I can say little
about it, as I lived at a distance from that province.

Q. Was not the scarcity of gold and silver an ar-
gument used against abolishing the paper?

A. I suppose it was.1

Q. What is the present opinion there of that law?
Is it as unpopular as it was at first?

A. I think it is not.

Q. Have not instructions from hence been some-
times sent over to governors, highly oppressive and
unpolitical ?

1 See " Remarks and Facts Relative to the American Paper Money,"
in Spark's Works of Franklin, vol. ii., p. 340.

1766] Benjamin Franklin 191

A. Yes.

Q. Have not some governors dispensed with them
for that reason?

A. Yes, I have heard so.

Q. Did the Americans ever dispute the controlling
power of Parliament to regulate the commerce ?

A. No.

Q. Can any thing less than a military force carry
the Stamp Act into execution ?

A . I do not see how a military force can be applied
to that purpose.

Q. Why may it not?

A. Suppose a military force sent into America,
they will find nobody in arms; what are they then
to do? They cannot force a man to take stamps
who chooses to do without them. They will not find
a rebellion; they may indeed make one.

Q. If the act is not repealed, what do you think
will be the consequences?

A. A total loss of the respect and affection the
people of America bear to this country, and of all
the commerce that depends on that respect and
affection.

Q. How can the commerce be affected?

A. You will find that, if the act is not repealed,
they will take a very little of your manufactures in
a short time.

Q. Is it in their power to do without them?

A. The goods they take from Britain are either
necessaries, mere conveniences, or superfluities. The
first, as cloth, &c, with a little industry they can
make at home; the second they can do without, till

192 The Works of [1766

they are able to provide them among themselves;
and the last, which are much the greatest part, they
will strike off immediately. They are mere articles
of fashion, purchased and consumed because the
fashion in a respected country; but will now be de-
tested and rejected. The people have already
struck off, by general agreement, the use of all goods
fashionable in mournings, and many thousand
pounds' worth are sent back as unsalable.

Q. Is it their interest to make cloth at home ?

A. I think they may at present get it cheaper
from Britain; I mean of the same fineness and
workmanship; but, when one considers other cir-
cumstances, the restraints on their trade, and the
difficulty of making remittances, it is their interest
to make every thing.

Q. Suppose an act of internal regulations con-
nected with a tax ; how would they receive it ?

A. I think it would be objected to.

Q. Then no regulation with a tax would be sub-
mitted to?

A. Their opinion is, that, when aids to the crown
are wanted, they are to be asked of the several assem-
blies, according to the old established usage ; who will,
as they always have done, grant them freely. And
that their money ought not to be given away, with-
out their consent, by persons at a distance, unac-
quainted with their circumstances and abilities. The
granting aids to the crown is the only means they
have of recommending themselves to their sovereign ;
and they think it extremely hard and unjust, that a
body of men, in which they have no representatives,

1766] Benjamin Franklin 193

should make a merit to itself of giving and granting
what is not its own, but theirs; and deprive them of
a right they esteem of the utmost value and impor-
tance, as it is the security of all their other rights.

Q. But is not the post-office, which they have
long received, a tax as well as a regulation?

A . No ; the money paid for the postage of a letter
is not of the nature of a tax ; it is merely a quantum
meruit for a service done; no person is compellable
to pay the money if he does not choose to receive
the service. A man may still, as before the act, send
his letter by a servant, a special messenger, or a
friend, if he thinks it cheaper and safer.

Q. But do they not consider the regulations of the
post-office, by the act of last year, as a tax?

A. By the regulations of last year the rate of
postage was generally abated near thirty per cent,
through all America ; they certainly cannot consider
such abatement as a tax.

Q. If an excise was laid by Parliament, which
they might likewise avoid paying, by not consum-
ing the articles excised, would they then not object
to it?

A. They would certainly object to it, as an excise
is unconnected with any service done, and is merely
an aid, which they think ought to be asked of them,
and granted by them, if they are to pay it ; and can
be granted to them by no others whatsoever, whom
they have not empowered for that purpose.

Q. You say they do not object to the right of Par-
liament, in laying duties on goods to be paid on their
importation; now, is there any kind of difference

VOL. IV. — 13.

194 The Works of [1766

between a duty on the importation of goods, and an
excise on their consumption ?

A. Yes, a very material one; an excise, for the
reasons I have just mentioned, they think you can
have no right to lay within their country. But the
sea is yours ; you maintain, by your fleets, the safety
of navigation in it, and keep it clear of pirates ; you
may have, therefore, a natural and equitable right to
some toll or duty on merchandises carried through
that part of your dominions, towards defraying the
expense you are at in ships to maintain the safety of
that carriage.

Q. Does this reasoning hold in the case of a duty
laid on the produce of their lands exported? And
would they not then object to such a duty?

A. If it tended to make the produce so much
dearer abroad, as to lessen the demand for it, to be
sure they would object to such a duty; not to your
right of laying it, but they would complain of it as a
burden, and petition you to lighten it.

Q. Is not the duty paid on the tobacco exported,
a duty of that kind?

A . That, I think, is only on tobacco carried coast-
wise, from one colony to another, and appropriated
as a fund for supporting the college at Williamsburg
in Virginia.

Q. Have not the assemblies in the West Indies
the same natural rights with those in North America ?

A. Undoubtedly.

Q. And is there not a tax laid there on their sugars
exported ?

A. I am not much acquainted with the West

1766] Benjamin Franklin 195

Indies ; but the duty of four and a half per cent, on
sugars exported was, I believe, granted by their own
assemblies.

Q. How much is the poll-tax in your province laid
on unmarried men ?

A. It is, I think, fifteen shillings, to be paid by
every single freeman upwards of twenty-one years
old.

Q. What is the annual amount of all the taxes in
Pennsylvania ?

A. I suppose about twenty thousand pounds
sterling.

Q. Supposing the Stamp Act continued and en-
forced, do you imagine that ill-humor will induce the
Americans to give as much for worse manufactures
of their own, and use them, preferable to better of
ours?

A . Yes, I think so. People will pay as freely to
gratify one passion as another, their resentment as
their pride.

Q. Would the people at Boston discontinue their
trade ?

A. The merchants are a very small number com-
pared with the body of the people, and must discon-
tinue their trade if nobody will buy their goods.

Q. What are the body of the people in the col-
onies ?

A. They are farmers, husbandmen, or planters.

Q. Would they suffer the produce of their lands
to rot?

A. No; but they would not raise so much. They
would manufacture more and plough less.

196 The Works of [1766

Q. Would they live without the administration of
justice in civil matters, and suffer all the inconven-
iences of such a situation for any considerable time,
rather than take the stamps, supposing the stamps
were protected by a sufficient force, where every one
might have them?

A . I think the supposition impracticable, that the
stamps should be so protected as that every one
might have them. The act requires sub-distributors
to be appointed in every county town, district, and
village, and they would be necessary. But the prin-
cipal distributors, who were to have had a consider-
able profit on the whole, have not thought it worth
while to continue in the office; and I think it im-
possible to find sub-distributors fit to be trusted, who,
for the trifling profit that must come to their share,
would incur the odium and run the hazard that would
attend it ; and, if they could be found, I think it im-
practicable to protect the stamps in so many distant
and remote places.

Q. But in places where they could be protected,
would not the people use them rather than remain in
such a situation, unable to obtain any right, or re-
cover by law any debt?

A. It is hard to say what they would do. I can
only judge what other people will think, and how
they will act by what I feel within myself. I have a
great many debts due to me in America, and I had
rather they should remain unrecoverable by any law
than submit to the Stamp Act. They will be debts
of honor. It is my opinion the people will either
continue in that situation, or find some way to ex-

I766] Benjamin Franklin 197

tricate themselves; perhaps by generally agreeing to
proceed in the courts without stamps.

Q. What do you think a sufficient military force
to protect the distribution of the stamps in every
part of America?

A . A very great force, I can't say what, if the dis-
position of America is for a general resistance.

Q. What is the number of men in America able to
bear arms, or of disciplined militia ?

A. There are, I suppose, at least . . .

[Question objected to. He withdrew. Called in
again.]

Q. Is the American Stamp Act an equal tax on
the country?

A. I think not.

Q. Why so?

A. The greatest part of the money must arise
from lawsuits for the recovery of debts, and be paid
by the lower sort of people, who were too poor easily
to pay their debts. It is, therefore, a heavy tax on
the poor, and a tax upon them for being poor.

Q. But will not this increase of expense be a
means of lessening the number of lawsuits?

A. I think not; for as the costs all fall upon the
debtor, and are to be paid by him, they would be no
discouragement to the creditor to bring his action.

Q. Would it not have the effect of excessive
usury?

A . Yes ; as an oppression of the debtor.

Q. How many ships are there laden annually in
North America with flax-seed for Ireland?

A. I cannot speak to the number of ships; but I

198 The Works of [1766

know that in 1752 ten thousand hogsheads of flax-
seed, each containing seven bushels, were exported
from Philadelphia to Ireland. I suppose the quantity
is greatly increased since that time, and it is under-
stood that the exportation from New York is equal
to that from Philadelphia.

Q. What becomes of the flax that grows with that
flax-seed ?

A . They manufacture some into coarse, and some
into middling kind of linen.

Q. Are there any slitting-mills in America?

A. I think there are three; but I believe only one
at present employed. I suppose they will all be set
to work if the interruption of the trade continues.

Q. Are there any fulling-mills there?

A. A great many.

Q. Did you ever hear that a great quantity of
stockings were contracted for, for the army, during
the war, and manufactured in Philadelphia?

A. I have heard so.

Q. If the Stamp Act should be repealed, would not
the Americans think they could oblige the Parlia-
ment to repeal every external tax law now in force?

A. It is hard to answer questions of what people
at such a distance will think.

Q. But what do you imagine they will think were
the motives of repealing the act ?

A . I suppose they will think that it was repealed
from a conviction of its inexpediency ; and they will
rely upon it, that, while the same inexpediency sub-
sists, you will never attempt to make such another.

Q. What do you mean by its inexpediency ?

1766] Benjamin Franklin 199

A. I mean its inexpediency on several accounts;
the poverty and inability of those who were to pay
the tax, the general discontent it has occasioned, and
the impracticability of enforcing it.

Q. If the act should be repealed, and the legisla-
ture should show its resentment to the opposers of the
Stamp Act, would the colonies acquiesce in the au-
thority of the legislature? What is your opinion
they would do ?

A. I don't doubt at all that if the legislature re-
peal the Stamp Act, the colonies will acquiesce in the
authority.

Q. But if the legislature should think fit to ascer-
tain its rights to lay taxes, by any act laying a small
tax, contrary to their opinion, would they submit to
pay the tax?

A . The proceedings of the people in America have
been considered too much together. The proceed-
ings of the assemblies have been very different from
those of the mobs, and should be distinguished as
having no connection with each other. The assem-
blies have only peaceably resolved what they take to
be their rights ; they have taken no measures for op-
position by force, they have not built a fort, raised
a man, or provided a grain of ammunition, in order
to such opposition. The ringleaders of riots, they
think ought to be punished ; they would punish them
themselves, if they could. Every sober, sensible man,
would wish to see rioters punished, as, otherwise,
peaceable people have no security of person or estate ;
but as to an internal tax, how small soever, laid by
the legislature here on the people there, while they

200 The Works of [1766

have no representatives in this legislature, I think it
will never be submitted to ; they will oppose it to the
last; they do not consider it as at all necessary for
you to raise money on them by your taxes ; because
they are, and always have been, ready to raise money
by taxes among themselves, and to grant large sums,
equal to their abilities, upon requisition from the
crown.

They have not only granted equal to their abilities,
but, during all the last war, they granted far beyond
their abilities, and beyond their proportion with this
country (you yourselves being judges), to the amount
of many hundred thousand pounds; and this they
did freely and readily, only on a sort of promise, from
the Secretary of State, that it should be recommended
to Parliament to make them compensation. It was
accordingly recommended to Parliament, in the most
honorable manner for them. America has been
greatly misrepresented and abused here, in papers,
and pamphlets, and speeches, as ungrateful, and un-
reasonable, and unjust; in having put this nation to
an immense expense for their defence, and refusing
to bear any part of that expense. The colonies raised,
paid, and clothed near twenty-five thousand men
during the last war; a number equal to those sent
from Britain, and far beyond their proportion; they
went deeply into debt in doing this, and all their
taxes and estates are mortgaged for many years to
come, for discharging that debt.

Government here was at the same time very sensi-
ble of this. The colonies were recommended to Par-
liament. Every year the King sent down to the

1766] Benjamin Franklin 201

House a written message to this purpose: " that his
Majesty, being highly sensible of the zeal and vigor
with which his faithful subjects in North America
had exerted themselves, in defence of his Majesty's
just rights and possessions, recommend it to the
House to take the same into consideration, and enable
him to give them a proper compensation." You will
find those messages on your own journals every year
of the war to the very last ; and you did accordingly
give two hundred thousand pounds annually to the
crown, to be distributed in such compensation to the
colonies.

This is the strongest of all proofs, that the colonies,
far from being unwilling to bear a share of the burden,
did exceed their proportion ; for if they had done less,
or had only equalled their proportion, there would
have been no room or reason for compensation. In-
deed, the sums reimbursed them were by no means
adequate to the expense they incurred beyond their
proportion; but they never murmured at that. They
esteemed their sovereign's approbation of their zeal
and fidelity, and the approbation of this House, far
beyond any other kind of compensation; therefore
there was no occasion for this act, to force money
from a willing people. They had not refused giving
money for the purposes of the act; no requisition
had been made ; they were always willing and ready
to do what could reasonably be expected from them,
and in this light they wish to be considered.

Q. But suppose Great Britain should be engaged
in a war in Europe, would North America contribute
to the support of it ?

202 The Works of [1766

A. I do think they would as far as their circum-
stances would permit. They consider themselves as
a part of the British empire, and as having one com-
mon interest with it ; they may be looked on here as
foreigners, but they do not consider themselves as
such. They are zealous for the honor and prosperity
of this nation; and, while they are well used, will
always be ready to support it, as far as their little
power goes. In 1739 they were called upon to assist
in the expedition against Carthagena, and they sent
three thousand men to join your army. It is true,
Carthagena is in America, but as remote from the
northern colonies as if it had been in Europe. They
make no distinction of wars, as to their duty of assist-
ing in them.

I know the last war is commonly spoken of here,
as entered into for the defence, or for the sake, of the
people in America. I think it is quite misunderstood.
It began about the limits between Canada and Nova
Scotia; about territories to which the crown indeed
laid claim, but which were not claimed by any British
colony; none of the lands had been granted to any
colonist; we had therefore no particular concern or
interest in that dispute. As to the Ohio, the contest
there began about your right of trading in the Indian
country, a right you had by the treaty of Utrecht,
which the French infringed; they seized the traders
and their goods, which were your manufactures ; they
took a fort which a company of your merchants, and
their factors and correspondents, had erected there
to secure that trade. Braddock was sent with an
army to retake that fort (which was looked on here

1766] Benjamin Franklin 203

as another encroachment on the King's territory,)
and to protect your trade. It was not till after his
defeat, that the colonies were attacked.1 They were
before in perfect peace with both French and In-
dians; the troops were not, therefore, sent for their
defence.

The trade with the Indians, though carried on in
America, is not an American interest. The people
of America are chiefly farmers and planters; scarce
any thing that they raise or produce is an article of
commerce with the Indians. The Indian trade is a
British interest; it is carried on with British manu-
facturers, for the profit of British merchants and
manufacturers; therefore the war, as it commenced
for the defence of territories of the crown (the prop-
erty of no American), and for the defence of a trade
purely British, was really a British war, and yet the
people of America made no scruple of contributing
their utmost towards carrying it on, and bringing it
to a happy conclusion.

Q. Do you think, then, that the taking possession
of the King's territorial rights, and strengthening the
frontiers, is not an American interest ?

A . Not particularly, but conjointly a British and
an American interest.

Q. You will not deny, that the preceding war, the

1 When this army was in the utmost distress, from the want of
wagons, &c, our author and his son voluntarily traversed the country,
in order to collect a sufficient quantity; and they had zeal and address
enough to effect their purpose, upon pledging themselves, to the
amount of many thousand pounds, for payment. It was just before
Dr. Franklin's last return from England to America, that the accounts
in this transaction were passed at the British treasury. — B. V.

204 The Works of [1766

war with Spain, was entered into for the sake of
America ; was it not occasioned by captures made in
the American seas ?

A . Yes ; captures of ships carrying on the British
trade there with British manufactures.

Q. Was not the late war with the Indians, since
the peace with France, a war for America only?

A. Yes; it was more particularly for America
than the former ; but was rather a consequence or re-
mains of the former war, the Indians not having been
thoroughly pacified; and the Americans bore by
much the greatest share of the expense. It was put
an end to by the army under General Bouquet : there
were not above three hundred regulars in that army,
and above one thousand Pennsylvanians.

Q. Is it not necessary to send troops to America,
to defend the Americans against the Indians?

A. No, by no means; it never was necessary.
They defended themselves when they were but a
handful, and the Indians much more numerous. They
continually gained ground, and have driven the In-
dians over the mountains, without any troops sent
to their assistance from this country. And can it be
thought necessary now to send troops for their de-
fence from those diminished Indians tribes, when the
colonies have become so populous and so strong?
There is not the least occasion for it ; they are very
able to defend themselves.

Q. Do you say that there were not more than
three hundred regular troops employed in the late
Indian war?

A. Not on the Ohio, or the frontiers of Pennsyl-

1766] Benjamin Franklin 205

vania, which was the chief part of the war that af-
fected the colonies. There were garrisons at Niagara,
Fort Detroit, and those remote posts kept for the sake
of your trade ; I did not reckon them ; but I believe,
that on the whole the number of Americans, or pro-
vincial troops, employed in the war was greater than
that of the regulars. I am not certain, but I think
so.

Q. Do you think the assemblies have a right to
levy money on the subject there, to grant to the
crown ?

A . I certainly think so ; they have always done it.

Q. Are they acquainted with the declaration of
rights? And do they know, that, by that statute,
money is not to be raised on the subject but by con-
sent of Parliament?

A. They are very well acquainted with it.

Q. How then can they think they have a right
to levy money for the crown, or for any other than
local purposes?

A. They understand that clause to relate to sub-
jects only within the realm; that no money can be
levied on them for the crown but by consent of Par-
liament. The colonies are not supposed to be within
the realm ; they have assemblies of their own, which
are their parliaments, and they are, in that respect,
in the same situation with Ireland. When money
is to be raised for the crown upon the subject in
Ireland, or in the colonies, the consent is given in the
Parliament of Ireland, or in the assemblies of the
colonies. They think the Parliament of Great Brit-
ain cannot properly give that consent, till it has

206 The Works of [1766

representatives from America; for the petition of
right expressly says, it is to be by common consent
in Parliament; and the people of America have no
representatives in Parliament, to make a part of
that common consent.

Q. If the Stamp Act should be repealed, and an
act should pass, ordering the assemblies of the colo-
nies to indemnify the sufferers by the riots, would
they obey it?

A. That is a question I cannot answer.

Q. Supposing the King should require the colo-
nies to grant a revenue, and the Parliament should be
against their doing it, do they think they can grant
a revenue to the King without the consent of the
Parliament of Great Britain?

A. That is a deep question. As to my own opin-
ion, I should think myself at liberty to do it, and
should do it, if I liked the occasion.

Q. When money has been raised in the colonies,
upon requisitions, has it not been granted to the King ?

A . Yes, always ; but the requisitions have gener-
ally been for some service expressed, as to raise,
clothe, and pay troops, and not for money only.

Q. If the act should pass requiring the American
assemblies to make compensation to the sufferers, and
they should disobey it, and then the Parliament
should, by another act, lay an internal tax, would
they then obey it ?

A. The people will pay no internal tax; and, I
think, an act to oblige the assemblies to make com-
pensation is unnecessary; for I am of opinion, that,
as soon as the present heats are abated, they will

1766] Benjamin Franklin 207

take the matter into consideration, and if it is right
to be done, they will do it of themselves.

Q. Do not letters often come into the post-offices
in America, directed to some inland town where no
post goes?

A. Yes.

Q. Can any private person take up those letters
and carry them as directed?

A. Yes; any friend of the person may do it, pay-
ing the postage that has accrued.

Q. But must not he pay an additional postage
for the distance to such inland town ?

A. No.

Q. Can the post-master answer delivering the let-
ter, without being paid such additional postage ?

A. Certainly he can demand nothing where he
does no service.

Q. Suppose a person, being far from home, finds a
letter in a post-office directed to him, and he lives
in a place to which the post generally goes, and the
letter is directed to that place; will the post-mas-
ter deliver him the letter, without his paying the
postage receivable at the place to which the letter is
directed ?

A . Yes ; the office cannot demand postage for a
letter that it does not carry, or farther than it does
carry it.

Q. Are not ferry-men in America obliged, by act
of Parliament, to carry over the posts without pay ?

A. Yes.

Q. Is not this a tax on the ferry-men ?

A. They do not consider it as such, as they have

208 The Works of [1766

an advantage from persons travelling with the post.

Q. If the Stamp Act should be repealed, and the
crown should make a requisition to the colonies for a
sum of money, would they grant it?

A . I believe they would.

Q. Why do you think so?

A . I can speak for the colony I live in ; I had it in
instruction from the assembly to assure the ministry
that, as they had always done, so they should always
think it their duty, to grant such aids to the crown
as were suitable to their circumstances and abilities,
whenever called upon for that purpose, in the usual
constitutional manner; and I had the honor of
communicating this instruction to that honorable
gentleman then minister.1

1 I take the following to be the history of this transaction. Until
1763, and the years following, whenever Great Britain wanted sup-
plies directly from the colonies, the Secretary of State, in his Majesty's
name, sent them a letter of requisition, in which the occasion for sup-
plies was expressed ; and the colonies returned a free gift, the mode of
levying which they wholly prescribed. At this period, a chancellor of
the exchequer (Mr. George Grenville) steps forth, and says to the
House of Commons : ' ' We must call for money from the colonies in the
way of a tax" ; and to the colony agents: " Write to your several colo-
nies, and tell them if they dislike a duty upon stamps, and prefer any
other method of raising the money themselves, I shall be content, provided
the amount be but raised." "That is," observed the colonies, when
commenting upon his terms, " if we do not tax ourselves, as we may
be directed, the Parliament will tax us." Dr. Franklin's instructions,
spoken of above, related to this gracious option. As the colonies
could not choose "another tax," while they disclaimed every tax, the
Parliament passed the Stamp Act.

It seems that the only part of the offer which bore a show of favor,
was the grant of the mode of levying; and this was the only circum-
stance which was not new.

See Mr. Mauduit's account of Mr. Grenville's conference with the
agents, confirmed by the agents for Georgia and Virginia; and Mr.
Burke's Speech, in 1774, p. 55. — B. V.

i766] Benjamin Franklin 209

Q. Would they do this for a British concern, as
suppose a war in some part of Europe, that did not
affect them?

A. Yes, for any thing that concerned the general
interest. They consider themselves a part of the
whole.

Q. What is the usual constitutional manner of
calling on the colonies for aids?

A. A letter from the Secretary of State?

Q. Is this all you mean ; a letter from the Secre-
tary of State?

A. I mean the usual way of requisition, in a
circular letter from the Secretary of State, by his
Majesty's command, reciting the occasion, and re-
comending it to the colonies to grant such aids as
became their loyalty, and were suitable to their abili-
ties.

Q. Did the Secretary of State ever write for
money for the crown?

A. The requisitions have been to raise, clothe,
and pay men, which cannot be done without money.

Q. Would they grant money alone, if called on ?

A. In my opinion they would, money as well as
men, when they have money, or can make it.

Q. If the Parliament should repeal the Stamp
Act, will the assembly of Pennsylvania rescind their
resolutions ?

A. I think not.

Q. Before there was any thought of the Stamp
Act, did they wish for a representation in Parlia-
ment?

A. No.

210 The Works of [1766

Q. Don't you know that there is in the Pennsyl-
vania charter an express reservation of the right of
Parliament to lay taxes there ?

A. I know there is a clause in the charter by
which the King grants that he will levy no taxes on
the inhabitants, unless it be with the consent of the
assembly or by act of Parliament.

Q. How, then, could the assembly of Pennsyl-
vania assert that laying a tax on them by the Stamp
Act was an infringement of their rights ?

A . They understand it thus : by the same charter,
and otherwise, they are entitled to all privileges
and liberties of Englishmen. They find in the Great
Charters and the Petition and Declaration of Rights
that one of the privileges of English subjects is, that
they are not to be taxed but by their common con-
sent. They have, therefore, relied upon it from the
first settlement of the province, that the Parliament
never would, nor could, by color of that clause in the
charter assume a right of taxing them till it had
qualified itself to exercise such right by admitting
representatives from the people to be taxed, who
ought to make a part of that common consent.

Q. Are there any words in the charter that justify
that construction?

A. "The common rights of Englishmen," as de-
clared by Magna Charta, and the Petition of Right,
all justify it.

Q. Does the distinction between internal and ex-
ternal taxes exist in the words of the charter ?

A. No, I believe not.

Q. Then, may they not, by the same interpreta-

1766] Benjamin Franklin 211

tion, object to the Parliament's right of external
taxation ?

A. They never have hitherto. Many arguments
have been lately used here to show them that there is
no difference, and that if you have no right to tax
them internally, you have none to tax them exter-
nally or make any other law to bind them. At
present they do not reason so ; but in time they may
possibly be convinced by these arguments.

Q. Do not the resolutions of the Pennsylvania as-
sembly say " all taxes? "

A. If they do, they mean only internal taxes.
The same words have not always the same meaning
here and in the colonies. By taxes they mean inter-
nal taxes ; by duties they mean customs. These are
their ideas of the language.

Q. Have you not seen the resolutions of the Mas-
sachusetts Bay assembly?

A. I have.

Q. Do they not say that neither external nor in-
ternal taxes can be laid on them by Parliament?

A. I don't know that they do; I believe not.

Q. If the same colony should say neither tax nor
imposition could be laid, does not that province hold
the power of Parliament can lay neither?

A . I suppose that by the word imposition they do
not intend to express duties to be laid on goods im-
ported as regulations of commerce.

Q. What can the colonies mean, then, by imposi-
tion as distinct from taxes ?

A. They may mean many things, as impressing
of men or of carriages, quartering troops on private

212 The Works of [1766

houses, and the like ; there may be great impositions
that are not properly taxed.

Q. Is not the post-office rate an internal tax laid
by act of Parliament?

A. I have answered that.

Q. Are all parts of the colonies equally able to pay
taxes?

A. No, certainly; the frontier parts, which have
been ravaged by the enemy, are greatly disabled by
that means ; and therefore, in such cases, are usually
favored in our tax laws.

Q. Can we, at this distance, be competent judges
of what favors are necessary ?

A . The Parliament have supposed it, by claiming
a right to make tax laws for America; I think it
impossible.

Q. Would the repeal of the Stamp Act be any dis-
couragement of your manufactures? Will the peo-
ple that have begun to manufacture decline it ?

A. Yes, I think they will; especially if, at the
same time, the trade is opened again, so that remit-
tances can be easily made. I have known several in-
stances that make it probable. In the war before
last, tobacco being low, and making little remittance,
the people of Virginia went generally into family
manufactures. Afterwards, when tobacco bore a
better price, they returned to the use of British man-
ufactures. So fulling-mills were very much disused
in the last war in Pennsylvania, because bills were
then plenty, and remittances could easily be made to
Britain for English cloth and other goods.

Q. If the Stamp Act should be repealed, would it

i766] Benjamin Franklin 213

induce the assemblies of America to acknowledge the
right of Parliament to tax them, and would they erase
their resolutions?

A. No, never.

Q. Are there no means of obliging them to erase
those resolutions?

A. None that I know of; they will never do it,
unless compelled by force of arms.

Q. Is there a power on earth that can force them
to erase them?

A . No power, how great soever, can force men to
change their opinions.

Q. Do they consider the post-office as a tax, or as
a regulation ?

A . Not as a tax, but as a regulation and conven-
iency; every assembly encouraged it and supported
it in its infancy by grants of money, which they
would not otherwise have done; and the people
have always paid the postage.

Q. When did you receive the instructions you
mentioned ?

A . I brought them with me, when I came to Eng-
land about fifteen months since.

Q. When did you communicate that instruction
to the minister?

A. Soon after my arrival, while the stamping of
America was under consideration, and before the bill
was brought in.

Q. Would it be most for the interest of Great
Britain to employ the hands of Virginia in tobacco,
or in manufactures?

A. In tobacco, to be sure.

214 The Works of [1766

Q. What used to be the pride of the Americans ?

A. To indulge in the fashions and manufactures
of Great Britain.

Q. What is now their pride?

A. To wear their old clothes over again, till they
can make new ones.

[Withdrew.]

This examination was published in 1767, without the
name of printer or of publisher, and the following remarks
upon it are contained in the Gentleman's Magazine for
July of that year :

"From this examination of Dr. Franklin, the reader
may form a clearer and more comprehensive idea of the
state and disposition in America, of the expediency or
inexpediency of the measure in question, and of the char-
acter and conduct of the minister who proposed it, than
from all that has been written upon the subject in news-
papers and pamphlets, under the titles of essays, letters,
speeches, and considerations, from the first moment of
its becoming the subject of public attention till now.
The questions in general are put with great subtlety
and judgment, and they are answered with such deep
and familiar knowledge of the subject, such precision and
perspicuity, such temper and yet such spirit, as do the
greatest honor to Dr. Franklin, and justify the general
opinion of his character and abilities."

Mr. Sparks very justly says that there was no event in
Franklin's life more creditable to his talents and char-
acter, or which gave him so much celebrity, as this ex-
amination before the House of Commons. His further
statement, however, that Franklin's answers were given
without premeditation and without knowing beforehand

1766] Benjamin Franklin 215

the nature or form of the question that was to be put, is
a little too sweeping. In a memorandum which Franklin
gave to a friend who wished to know by whom the several
questions were put, he admitted that many were put by
friends to draw out in answer the substance of what he
had before said upon the subject. This statement of
Franklin concerning the preceding examination belongs
to the history of the examination. For the further
elucidation of the matter this statement of Franklin
himself is reprinted in full. These curious remarks first
appeared in Walsh's " Life of Franklin," which was
published in Delaplaine s Repository. They were tran-
scribed from a manuscript which purports to have been
written by Dr. Franklin in reply to a friend who de-
sired to know by whom the several questions were put.
These remarks are as follows :

"I have numbered the questions," says Dr. Franklin, "for
the sake of making reference to them.

"Qu. 1, is a question of form, asked of every one that is
examined. — Qu. 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, were asked by Mr. Hewitt, a
member for Coventry, a friend of ours, and were designed to
draw out the answers that follow; being the substance of
what I had before said to him on the subject, to remove a
common prejudice, that the Colonies paid no taxes, and that
their governments were supported by burdening the people
here; Qu. 7, was particularly intended to show by the answer
that Parliament could not properly and equally lay taxes in
America, as they could not, by reason of their distance, be
acquainted with such circumstances as might make it neces-
sary to spare particular parts. — Qu. 8 to 13, asked by Mr.
Huske, another friend, to show the impracticability of dis-
tributing the Stamps in America. — Qu. 14, 15, 16, by one of
the late administration, an adversary. — Qu. 17 to 26, by Mr.
Huske again. His questions about the Germans, and about

216 The Works of [1766

the number of people, were intended to make the opposition
to the Stamp Act in America appear more formidable. He
asked some others here that the clerk has omitted, particularly-
one, that I remember.

"There had been a considerable party in the House for
saving the honor and right of Parliament, by retaining the
Act, and yet making it tolerable to America, by reducing it to
a stamp on commissions for profitable offices, and on cards
and dice. I had, in conversation with many of them, ob-
jected to this, as it would require an establishment for the
distributors, which would be a great expense, as the stamps
would not be sufficient to pay them, and so the odium and
contention would be kept up for nothing. The notion of
amending, however, still continued, and one of the most ac-
tive of the members for promoting it told me, he was sure I
could, if I would, assist them to amend the Act in such a
manner, that America should have little or no objection to it.
'I must confess,' says I, 'I have thought of one amendment;
if you will make it, the Act may remain, and yet the Ameri-
cans will be quieted. It is a very small amendment, too; it
is only the change of a single word.' 'Ay,' says he, 'what is
that?' 'It is in that clause where it is said, "that from and
after the first day of November, one thousand seven hundred
and sixty-five, there shall be paid," &c. The amendment I
would propose is, for one read two, and then all the rest of the
Act may stand as it does. I believe it will give nobody in
America any uneasiness.' Mr. Huske had heard of this, and,
desiring to bring out the same answer in the House, asked
me whether I could not propose a small amendment, that
would make the Act palatable. But, as I thought the answer
he wanted too light and ludicrous for the House, I evaded
the question.

"Qu. 27, 28, 29, I think these were by Mr. Grenville, but I
am not certain. — Qu. 30, 31, I know not who asked them. —
Qu. 32 to 35, asked by Mr. Nugent, who was against us. His
drift was to establish a notion he had entertained, that the
people in America had a crafty mode of discouraging the

1766] Benjamin Franklin 217

English trade by heavy taxes on merchants. — Qu. 36 to 42,
most of these by Mr. Cooper and other friends, with whom I
had discoursed, and were intended to bring out such answers
as they desired and expected from me. — Qu. 43, uncertain by
whom. — Qu. 44, 45, 46, by Mr. Nugent again, who I suppose
intended to infer that the poor people in America were better
able to pay taxes than the poor in England. — Qu. 47, 48, 49,
by Mr. Prescott, an adversary.

"Qu. 50 to 58, by different members, I cannot recollect who.
— Qu. 59 to 78, chiefly by the former ministry. — Qu. 79 to 82,
by friends. — Qu. 83, by one of the late ministry. — Qu. 84, by
Mr. Cooper. — Qu. 85 to 90, by some of the late ministry. —
Qu. 91, 92, by Mr. Grenville. — Qu. 93 to 98, by some of the
late ministry. — Qu. 99, 100, by some friend, I think Sir George
Saville. — Qu. 10 1 to 106, by several of the late ministry. —
Qu. 107 to 114, by friends. — Qu. 115 to 117, by Mr. A. Bacon.
— Qu. 118 to 120, by some of the late ministry. — Qu. 121, by
an adversary. — Qu. 122, by a friend. — Qu. 123, 124, by Mr.
Charles Townshend. — Qu. 125, by Mr. Nugent. — Qu. 126, by
Mr. Grenville. — Qu. 127, by one of the late ministry. — Qu. 128,
by Mr. G. Grenville. — Qu. 129, 130, 131, by Mr. Wellbore
Ellis, late Secretary of War. — Qu. 132 to 135, uncertain. —
Qu. 136 to 142, by some of the late ministry, intending to
prove that it operated where no service was done, and there-
fore it was a tax. — Qu. 143, by a friend, I forget who. — Qu.
144, 145, by C. Townshend. — Qu. 146 to 151, by some of the
late ministry. — Qu. 152 to 157, by Mr. Prescott, and others
of the same side. — Qu. 158 to 162, by Charles Townshend. —
Qu. 163, 164, by a friend, I think Sir George Saville. — Qu.
165, by some friend. — Qu. 166, 167, by an adversary. — Qu.
168 to 174, by friends.

"Mr. Nugent made a violent speech next day upon this
examination, in which he said: 'We have often experienced
Austrian ingratitude, and yet we assisted Portugal; we ex-
perienced Portuguese ingratitude, and yet we assisted Amer-
ica. But what is Austrian ingratitude, what is the ingratitude
of Portugal compared to this of America? We have fought,

218 The Works of [1766

bled, and ruined ourselves, to conquer for them; and now
they come and tell us to our noses, even at the bar of this
House, that they are not obliged to us,' &c. But his clamor
was very little minded."

A few years since the editor stumbled upon an original
edition of this Examination, in a pamphlet form, and
bearing the following title :

THE EXAMINATION OF
DOCTOR BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

RELATIVE TO

the repeal of the american stamp act in mdcclxvi.
mdcclxvii.
Price One Shilling.

No publisher's imprint is given. In the margin, how-
ever, and in a chirography which seems more recent than
the printed text, are written what purport to be the
"names of the interrogators." When or by whom, or
upon what authority, this list was made, there are no
indications; but the fact that the list differs so widely
from that given in Delaplaine's, and the further fact that
Franklin so frequently confesses his inability to recall
the names of some of his interrogators, seem to justify
me in giving this anonymous list here for what it is worth.

As Grenville is always spelt Greenwille, and Burke
Bourke, the presumption is that all the names were writ-
ten by a foreigner, who had taken them from the lips of
his informant.

By the Speaker
" Mr. Huske
" Lord Clare
" Mr. Townshend
" Mr. Bourke

Nos. 1,2, inclusive.
Nos. 3 to 42,
Nos. 43 to 49, 98 to 103,

. Nos. 50 to 77,
Nos. 78 to 89, 106, 107,

1766] Benjamin Franklin 219

By Mr. Greenwille . Nos. 90 to 97, 122 to 148, inclusive.
" Marquis of Granby . . . Nos. 104, 105, "
" Lord North . . Nos. 108 to 121, 149 to 156, "
" Mr. Thurloe, King's counsel-at-law . 157 to 162, "
" Mr. Cooper, Secretary of the Treasury, 163 to 173, "

In this list we do not find the names of Nugent, Ellis,
Bacon, Saville, or Prescott, while in the other list we do
not find the names of Lord Clare, Burke, Marquis of
Granby, Lord North, or Thurlow. — Editor.

CCLXX

TO MRS. DEBORAH FRANKLIN

London, 22 February, 1766.

My Dear Child: — I am excessively hurried, be-
ing, every hour that I am awake, either abroad to
speak with members of Parliament, or taken up with
people coming to me at home concerning our Ameri-
can affairs, so that I am much behindhand in answer-
ing my friends' letters. But though I cannot by this
opportunity write to others, I must not omit a line to
you, who kindly write me so many. I am well. It
is all I can say at present, except that I am just made
very happy by a vote of the Commons for the repeal
of the Stamp Act. Your ever loving husband,

B. Franklin.1

1 Dr. Franklin's examination before Parliament, concerning the
Stamp Act, was closed on the 13 th of February, and contributed essen-
tially towards effecting the repeal. The bill for the repeal of the
Stamp Act received the royal assent on the 8th of March.

220 The Works of [1766

CCLXXI

TO MRS. DEBORAH FRANKLIN

London, 27 February, 1766.

My Dear Child: — I wrote you a few days ago
by Mr. Penrose, by way of Maryland, when I wrote
also to the Speaker, to Mr. Galloway, Mr. Hughes,
and Mr. Hall. I have now as little time as then to
enlarge, having wrote besides to-day so much, that I
am almost blind. But, by the March packet, I shall
freely answer your late letters. Let the vaults alone
till my return. As you have a woodyard, perhaps
they may not be necessary. I send you some curious
beans for your garden. Love to Sally, and all rela-
tions, and to all the ladies that do me the honor to
inquire after me. I congratulate you on the soon
expected repeal of the Stamp Act, and on the great
share of health we both enjoy, though now going in
fourscore, that is, in the fourth score. Mr. White-
field called to-day, and tells me a surprising piece of
news. Mr. Dunlap is come here from Barbadoes,
was ordained deacon on Saturday last, and priest on
Sunday. In haste, but very well. I am, my dear

girl, your ever loving husband,

B. Franklin.

CCLXXII

TO HUGH ROBERTS

London, 27 February, 1766.

Dear Friend: — I received your kind letter of
November 27th. You cannot conceive how much

i766] Benjamin Franklin 221

good the cordial salutations of an old friend do the
heart of a man so far from home, and hearing fre-
quently of the abuses thrown on him in his absence
by the enemies that party has raised against him.
In the meantime, I hope I have done even those
enemies some service in our late struggle for America.
It has been a hard one, and we have been often
between hope and despair; but now the day begins
to clear. The ministry are fixed for us, and we have
obtained a majority in the House of Commons for
repealing the Stamp Act, and giving us ease in every
commercial grievance. God grant that no bad
news of farther excesses in America may arrive
to strengthen our adversaries, and weaken the
hands of our friends, before this good work is quite
completed.

The partisans of the late ministry have been
strongly crying out rebellion, and calling for force to
be sent against America. The consequence might
have been terrible; but milder measures have pre-
vailed. I hope, nay, I am confident, America will
show itself grateful to Britain on the occasion, and
behave prudently and decently.

I have got a seal done for four guineas, which I
shall send by a friend. My respects to good Mrs.
Roberts and to your valuable son. Remember me
affectionately to the Junto, and to all inquiring
friends. Adieu, my dear friend. Your integrity will
always make you happy. Believe me ever yours
affectionately,

B. Franklin.

222 The Works of [1766

CCLXXIII

TO CHARLES THOMSON

London, 27 February, 1766.

My Good Friend and Neighbour:

I forgot whether I before acknowledged the receipt
of your kind letter of September 24th. I gave an
extract from it to a friend, with an extract from mine
to which it was an answer, and he printed both in the
London Chronicle, with an introduction of his own;
and I have reprinted every thing from America that
I thought might help our common cause.

We at length, after a long and hard struggle, have
gained so much ground, that there is now little doubt
the Stamp Act will be repealed, and reasonable relief
given us besides, in our commercial grievances, and
those relating to our currency. I trust the behaviour
of the Americans on the occasion will be so prudent,
decent, and grateful, as that their friends here will
have no reason to be ashamed, and that our enemies,
who predict that the indulgence of Parliament will
only make us more insolent and ungovernable, may
find themselves, and be found, false prophets.

My respects to Mrs. Thomson. I have not had the
pleasure of hearing from you by any of the late op-
portunities, but am so bad a correspondent myself
that I have no right to take exceptions, and am,
nevertheless, your affectionate friend and very hum-
ble servant,

B. Franklin.

1766] Benjamin Franklin 223

CCLXXIV

TO MRS. DEBORAH FRANKLIN

London, 6 April, 1766.

My Dear Child : — As the Stamp Act is at length
repealed, I am willing you should have a new gown,
which you may suppose I did not send sooner, as I
knew you would not like to be finer than your neigh-
bors, unless in a gown of your own spinning. Had
the trade between the two countries totally ceased, it
was a comfort to me to recollect, that I had once
been clothed from head to foot in woollen and linen
of my wife's manufacture, that I never was prouder
of any dress in my life, and that she and her daughter
might do it again if it was necessary. I told the
Parliament that it was my opinion, before the old
clothes of the Americans were worn out, they might
have new ones of their own making. I have sent you
a fine piece of Pompadour satin, fourteen yards, cost
eleven shillings a yard; a silk negligee and petticoat
of brocaded lutestring for my dear Sally, with two
dozen gloves, four bottles of lavender water, and two
little reels. The reels are to screw on the edge of
the table, when she would wind silk or thread. The
skein is to be put over them, and winds better than
if held in two hands. There is also a gimcrack cork-
screw, which you must get some brother gimcrack to
show you the use of. In the chest is a parcel of
books for my friend Mr. Coleman, and another for
cousin Colbert. Pray did he receive those I sent
him before? I send you also a box with three fine
cheeses. Perhaps a bit of them may be left when I

224 The Works of [1766

come home. Mrs. Stevenson has been very diligent
and serviceable in getting these things together for
you, and presents her best respects, as does her
daughter, to both you and Sally. There are two
boxes included in your bill of lading for Billy.

I received your kind letter of February 20th. It
gives me great pleasure to hear, that our good old
friend Mrs. Smith is on the recovery. I hope she
has yet many happy years to live. My love to her.
I fear, from the account you give of brother Peter,
that he cannot hold out long. If it should please
God that he leaves us before my return, I would
have the post-office remain under the management
of their son, till Mr. Foxcroft and I agree how to
settle it.1

There are some droll prints in the box, which were
given me by the painter, and, being sent when I was
not at home, were packed up without my knowledge.
I think he was wrong to put in Lord Bute, who had
nothing to do with the Stamp Act. But it is the
fashion to abuse that nobleman, as the author of all
mischief. Love to Sally and all friends. I am, my
dear Debby, your affectionate husband,

B. Franklin.

1 Peter Franklin, the last surviving brother of Dr. Franklin, died
July 1, 1766, in the seventy-fourth year of his age. He had formerly
resided at Newport, Rhode Island; but at the time of his death he
was deputy postmaster in Philadelphia.

I766] Benjamin Franklin 225

CCLXXV

TO THOMAS RONAYNE, AT CORK1

London, 20 April, 1766.

Sir:— I have received your very obliging and very
ingenious letter by Captain Kearney . Your observa-
tions upon the electricity of fogs and the air in Ire-
land, and upon different circumstances of storms,
appear to me very curious, and I thank you for them.
There is not, in my opinion, any part of the earth
whatever which is, or can be, naturally in a state of
negative electricity; and, though different circum-
stances may occasion an inequality in the distribution
of the fluid, the equilibrium is immediately restored
by means of its extreme subtilty, and of the excellent
conductors with which the humid earth is amply pro-
vided. I am of opinion, however, that when a cloud,
well charged positively, passes near the earth, it
repels and forces down into the earth that natural
portion of electricity which exists near its surface and
in buildings, trees, &c, so as actually to reduce them
to a negative state before it strikes them. I am of
opinion, too, that the negative state in which you
have frequently found the balls which are suspended
from your apparatus, is not always occasioned by
clouds in a negative state; but more commonly
by clouds positively electrified, which have passed
over them, and which in their passage have repelled
and driven off a part of the electrical matter which
naturally existed in the apparatus; so that, what re-
mained after the passing of the clouds diffusing itself

1 Translated from M. Dubourg's French edition of the author's work
(Tome I., p. 265). — Sparks.

226 The Works of [1766

uniformly through the apparatus, the whole became
reduced to a negative state.

If you have read my experiments made in con-
tinuation of those of Mr. Canton, you will readily
understand this; but you may easily make a few
experiments, which will clearly demonstrate it. Let a
common glass be warmed before the fire, that it may
continue very dry for some time ; set it upon a table,
and place upon it the small box made use of by Mr.
Canton, so that the balls may hang a little beyond
the edge of the table. Rub another glass, which has
previously been warmed in a similar manner, with a
piece of black silk, or a silk handkerchief, in order to
electrify it. Hold then the glass above the little box,
at about the distance of three or four inches from that
part which is most distant from the balls, and you will
see the balls separate from each other; being posi-
tively electrified by the natural portion of electricity
which was in the box, and which is driven to the
farther part of it by the repulsive power of the atmos-
phere in the excited glass. Touch the box near the
little balls (the excited glass continuing in the same
state), and the balls will again unite; the quantity of
electricity which had been driven to this part being
drawn off by your finger. Withdraw then both your
finger and the glass, at the same instant, and the
quantity of electricity which had remained in the box,
uniformly diffusing itself, the balls will again be sepa-
rated, being now in a negative state. While things
are in this situation, begin once more to excite your
glass, and hold it above the box, but not too near,
and you will find that, when it is brought within a

1766] Benjamin Franklin 227

certain distance, the balls will at first approach each
other, being then in a natural state. In proportion
as the glass is brought nearer, they will again sepa-
rate, being positive. When the glass is moved be-
yond them, and at some little farther distance, they
will unite again, being in a natural state. When it is
entirely removed, they will separate again, being then
negative. The excited glass in this experiment may
represent a cloud positively charged, which you see
is capable of producing in this manner all the different
changes in the apparatus, without the least necessity
for supposing any negative cloud.

I am nevertheless fully convinced, that there are
negative clouds; because they sometimes absorb,
through the medium of the apparatus, the positive
electricity of a large jar, the hundreth part of which
the apparatus itself would have not been able to re-
ceive or contain at once. In fact, it is not difficult to
conceive that a large cloud, highly charged positively,
may reduce smaller clouds to a negative state, when
it passes above or near them, by forcing a part of
their natural portion of the fluid either to their in-
ferior surfaces, whence it may strike into the earth,
or to the opposite side, whence it may strike into the
adjacent clouds; so that, when the large cloud has
passed off to a distance, the small clouds shall remain
in a negative state, exactly like the apparatus; the
former (like the latter) being frequently insulated
bodies, having communication neither with the earth
nor with other clouds. Upon the same principle it
may easily be conceived in what manner a large nega-
tive cloud may render others positive.

228 The Works of [1766

The experiment which you mention, of filing your
glass, is analogous to one which I made in 1751, or
1752. I had supposed in my preceding letters, that
the pores of glass were smaller in the interior parts
than near the surface, and that on this account they
prevented the passage of the electrical fluid. To
prove whether this was actually the case or not, I
ground one of my phials in a part where it was ex-
tremely thin, grinding it considerably beyond the
middle, and very near to the opposite superficies, as
I found, upon breaking it after the experiment. It
was charged nevertheless after being ground, equally
well as before, which convinced me that my hypothe-
sis on this subject was erroneous. It is difficult to
conceive where the immense superfluous quantity of
electricity on the charged side of a glass is deposited.

I send you my paper concerning Meteors, which
was lately published here in the Philosophical Trans-
actions, immediately after a paper by Mr. Hamilton
on the same subject. I am, Sir, &c,

B. Franklin.

CCLXXVI

TO JONATHAN WILLIAMS

London, 28 April, 1766.

Dear Cousin: — I have received several of your
kind favors since my arrival in England, the last by
your good brother, the subject not in the least dis-
agreeable, as you apprehend, but in truth it has not
been at all in my power to do what you desired;

1766] Benjamin Franklin 229

if for no other reason, yet for this, that there has
been no vacancy.

I congratulate you on the repeal of that mother of
mischiefs, the Stamp Act, and on the ease we are
likely to obtain in our commerce. My time has been
extremely taken up, as you may imagine, in these
general affairs of America, as well as in the particu-
lar one of our province. Yet I did not forget the
Armonica for cousin Josiah ; but, with all my endeav-
ours, I have not been yet able to procure one. Here
is only one man that makes them well ; his price no
less than thirty-four guineas, and he asks forty. I
bid him one hundred guineas for three ; he refused it.
I then agreed to give him the thirty-four guineas
for one. He promised to make it, now a twelve-
month since. I have called on him often, till I am
tired, and do not find that he has yet done a glass of
it. If I could have got this, Josiah should have had
it, or mine. But I fear it will not be got at all. . . .
Yours affectionately,

B. Franklin.

CCLXXVII

TO CADWALLADER EVANS

London, 9 May, 1766.

Dear Sir: — I received your kind letter of March
3d, and thank you for the intelligence and hints it
contained. I wonder at the complaint you mention.
I always considered writing to the Speaker as writing

230 The Works of [1766

to the Committee. But if it is more to their satisfac-
tion that I should write to them jointly, it shall be
done in the future.

My private opinion concerning a union in Parlia-
ment between the two countries is, that it would be
best for the whole. But I think it will never be done.
For though I believe that, if we had no more repre-
sentatives than Scotland has, we should be suffi-
ciently strong in the House to prevent, as they do for
Scotland, any thing ever passing to our disadvantage,
yet we are not able at present to furnish and maintain
such a number, and, when we are more able, we shall
be less willing than we are now. The Parliament here
do at present think too highly of themselves to admit
representatives from us, if we should ask it; and,
when they will be desirous of granting it, we shall
think too highly of ourselves to accept of it. It would
certainly contribute to the strength of the whole, if
Ireland and all the dominions were united and con-
solidated under one common council for general
purposes, each retaining its particular council or par-
liament for its domestic concerns. But this should
have been early provided for. In the infancy of our
foreign establishments it was neglected, or was not
thought of. And now the affair is nearly in the sit-
uation of Friar Bacon's project of making a brazen
wall round England for its eternal security. His
servant, Friar Bungey, slept while the brazen head,
which was to dictate how it might be done, said Time
is, and Time was. He only waked to hear it say,
Time is past. An explosion followed, that tumbled
their house about the conjuror's ears.

1766] Benjamin Franklin 231

I hope, with you, that my being here at this junc-
ture has been of some service to the colonies. I am
sure I have spared no pains. And as to our particu-
lar affair, I am not in the least doubtful of obtaining
what we so justly desire, if we continue to desire it;
though the late confused state of affairs on both sides
of the water has delayed our proceeding. With great
esteem, I am, dear friend, yours affectionately,

B. Franklin.

CCLXXVIII

Mode of ascertaining whether the Power, giving a
Shock to those who touch either the Surinam
Eel or the Torpedo, be Electrical.

1. Touch the fish with a dry stick of sealing-wax,
or a glass rod, and observe if the shock be communi-
cated by means of those bodies.

Touch the same fish with an iron, or other metal-
line rod.

If the shock be communicated by the latter body,
and not by the others, it is probably not the mechani-
cal effects, as has been supposed, of some muscular
action in the fish, but of a subtile fluid, in this respect
analogous at least to the electric fluid.

2. Observe farther, whether the shock can be con-
veyed without the metal being actually in contact
with the fish, and, if it can, whether, in the space be-
tween, any light appear, and a slight noise or crack-
ling be heard.

232 The Works of [1766

If so, these also are properties common to the
electric fluid.

3. Lastly, touch the fish with the wire of a small
Ley den bottle, and, if the shock can be received
across, observe whether the wire will attract and
repel light bodies, and you feel a shock, while hold-
ing the bottle in one hand, and touching the wire
with the other.

If so, the fluid, capable of producing such effects,
seems to have all the known properties of the electric
fluid.

ADDITION, 12 AUGUST, 1 77 2

In Consequence of the Experiments and Discoveries
made in France by Mr. Walsh, and communicated
by him to Dr. Franklin.

Let several persons, standing on the floor, hold
hands, and let one of them touch the fish, so as to re-
ceive a shock. If the shock be felt by all, place the
fish flat on a plate of metal, and let one of the persons
holding hands touch this plate, while the person far-
thest from the plate touches the upper part of the
fish with a metal rod; then observe, if the force of
the shock be the same as to all the persons forming
the circle, or is stronger than before.

Repeat this experiment with this difference; let
two or three of the persons forming the circle, instead
of holding by the hand, hold each an uncharged elec-
trical bottle, so that the little balls and the end of the
wires may touch, and observe, after the shock, if
these wires will attract and repel light bodies, and if a

1766] Benjamin Franklin 233

ball of cork, suspended by a long silk string between
the wires, a little distance from the bottles, will be
alternately attracted and repelled by them.

CCLXXIX

TO MRS. DEBORAH FRANKLIN

London, 13 June, 1766.

My Dear Child: — Mrs. Stevenson has made up
a parcel of haberdashery for you, which will go by
Captain Robinson. She will also send you another
cloak, in the room of that we suppose is lost. I
wrote to you that I had been very ill lately. I am
now nearly well again, but feeble. To-morrow I set
out with my friend Dr. Pringle (now Sir John), on a
journey to Pyrmont, where he goes to drink the
waters; but I hope more from the air and exercise,
having been used, as you know, to have a journey
once a year, the want of which last year has, I be-
lieve, hurt me, so that, though I was not quite to
say sick, I was often ailing last winter and through
the spring. We must be back at farthest in eight
weeks, as my fellow traveller is the Queen's physi-
cian, and has leave for no longer, as her Majesty
will then be near her time. I purpose to leave him
at Pyrmont, and visit some of the principal cities
nearest to it, and call for him again when the time
for our return draws nigh. I am, my dear Debby,
your ever loving husband,

B. Franklin.

234 The Works of [1766

[It is much to be deplored that we have no journal or
any satisfactory account of Dr. Franklin's visit to the
Continent this summer. He seems to have made no
notes, and to have written no letters during his absence,
which are calculated in the least to satisfy our curiosity.
We have, however, a glimpse of him and of his com-
panion while at Gottingen, which illustrates the very
distinct and durable impression Franklin always made
in whatever society he appeared. In the Biography of
Joh. D. Michaelis, p. 102, occurs the following statement,
which was translated from the fly-leaf of a volume in the
Huntington Collection of Frankliniana in the Metropoli-
tan Museum.

"In the summer of 1766 I had the opportunity of making
two agreeable acquaintances. Pringle and Franklin came to
Gottingen, and were presented to me by Student Munchausen,
I once had a curious conversation with Franklin at the table.
When he dined with me, we talked much about America,
about the savages, the rapid growth of the English colonies,
the growth of the population, its duplication in 25 years, etc.,
and I said: 'that when I was in London in 174 1 I might have
learned more about the condition of the colonies by English
books and pamphlets, had I then thought seriously of what
I had even then expressed to others: that they would one
day release themselves from England. People laughed at
me; still I believed it.' He answered me with his earnest,
expressive, and intelligent face: 'Then you were mistaken.
The Americans have too much love for their mother country.'
I said: 'I believe it; but almighty interest would soon out-
weigh that love or even extinguish it altogether.' He could
not deny that this was possible, but secession was impossible,
for all the American towns of importance, Boston, New York,
and Philadelphia, were exposed to the English navy. Boston
could be destroyed by bombardment. This was unanswer-
able ; I did not then suspect that I was speaking to the man

1766] Benjamin Franklin 235

who, a few years later, outraged in England, would take such
an active part in the accomplishment of my contradicted
prophecy.

"Meanwhile when the disturbances broke out, I always
expected that the commencement would be the bombard-
ment of Boston, but things took quite another turn."

To this was appended the following note, presumedly
by Student Munchausen.

"At that time I was studying in Gottingen and had the
opportunity of knowing both men. I remember well that
Franklin, and I know not wherefor, was much more interest-
ing to me than Pringle. Just in that summer Lessing also
came to Gottingen, and Student Diety presented him to me
in the library. He our otherwise great countryman was far
from pleasing me as well as both those Englishmen. These
Britons, decried for their pride, were very sociable and well
informed. The German on the contrary was very haughty
and controversial in his conversation, which placed good-
hearted Diety in constant embarrassment. Yet I may be
mistaken. I never saw the man again, nor spoke to him,
and in a single interview may have been deceived."

Sir John Pringle, who accompanied Franklin on this
trip, and who had been his companion the preceding
year on a tour through France, was a man of consider-
able repute as a man of science in his day, and in 1772,
was chosen President of the Royal Society, which he sur-
rendered for an odd reason, which as it happens connects
with Franklin, and is thus described by the Messrs Hale
in their captivating monograph on Franklin in France.

"George III., in the heat of his animosity against the
Americans, had determined that the lightning-conductors on
Kew Palace should have blunt knobs instead of sharp points.
Franklin, the inventor of conductors, had directed that the

236 The Works of [1766

points should be sharp, so that an overcharge of electricity-
might be dispersed silently and without explosion. As we
shall have occasion to see, the question of blunt and sharp
conductors became a court question, the courtiers siding with
the King, and their opponents with Franklin. The King
asked Sir John Pringle to take his side, and give him an opin-
ion in favor of the knobs. To which Pringle replied by hint-
ing that the laws of nature were not changeable at royal
pleasure. It was then intimated to him by the King's au-
thority that a President of the Royal Society entertaining
such an opinion ought to resign, and he resigned accordingly."

It was this controversy that gave rise to the following
well-known epigram:

"While you, great George, for safety hunt,
And sharp conductors change for blunt,

The nation 's out of joint.
Franklin a wiser course pursues,
And all your thunder fearless views,
By keeping to the point."

Pringle was not only the physician of the King, but of
Lord Bute, and to this clinical influence it has been
usual to attribute William Franklin's appointment as
Governor of New Jersey. Nothing is more likely than
that Pringle recommended it ; but the appointment was,
no doubt, made on public, not on private, grounds, and
to place the father under obligations, not to oblige the
son or any subject or sovereign's family physician.

Only three days before the above letter to his wife was
written, Dr. Franklin wrote a letter, asking the leave of
the House of Assembly of Pennsylvania to return. The
only notice the Assembly appears to have taken of his
application was on the first day of the succeeding session
to renew his appointment. — Ed.]

1766] Benjamin Franklin 237

CCLXXX

FROM WILLIAM FRANKLIN

Honed Father: — I have just retd from Amboy, &
have recd your letter & the Packet of May 10. Mr.
Wharton's Clerk has this Moment call'd on me to let
me know he is going Express to N. Y. in hopes of over-
taking the Pacquet. I have stopt him that I might
send you an extract of Sr Wm's last Letter relative to
the Colony.

I before sent you an Answer to the Enquiry made
by S. Alexr Dick. Mr. Pennington informs me that
he has sent Mr. Penn an Ace* of the Land he enquird
about in N. Jersey, nor can I obtain any other Ace*
of it but the same Mr. Pennington has recd. He is
afraid of young Penn's selling the Manor to the proprs
for much less than it could be sold for here, & wishes
you w*1 caution him against it.

There has been lately several Murders of Indians in
the different Provinces. Those committed in this
Province will be duely enquired into, & the Murderers
executed as soon as found guilty. They are all ap-
prehended & secured in Gaol.

I congratulate you on the Resolutions of Pari*
relative to Commerce. They are in general much
approved, & I am in hopes that the people of the
Colonies, particularly Persons of Property, will con-
duct themselves so as to give great satisfaction to the
present Ministry. In New York there has been some
Riots on Ace* of Lands on the Great Manors; but
they are now quelled, & their Chief, one Pendergrass,
taken Prisoner.

238 The Works of [1766

All the Provinces seem in quiet, except Virga &
Massachusetts Bay. The Govr of the first won't let
his Assy meet, as he understands they are disposed to
pass a Bill of Rights & act otherwise in such a Man-
ner as to keep up the Spirit which they kindled be-
fore. In the latter, the Assy, by the Influence of that
Firebrand Otis, has imprudently turned out all the
Crown & other officers out of the Council.

I have come off with flying Colours in the Brush I
had with the Assembly. In order to get the better in
the Dispute, they asserted a Number of downright
Falsehoods, & finding themselves embarras'd by this
means, & that they had given me great Advantage,
they fairly yielded & desired me to proceed no further
in the affair. I had them, to be sure, prodigiously in
my Power, but, however, like a generous Enemy,
upon their crying out, They had got enough, I withheld
my hand. For the future I believe they will be more
cautious. I have just heard that Lord Hope is com-
ing here Tomorrow on a Visit to me.

Before this reaches you, you will probably hear of
Uncle Peter's Death. We are very much concern 'd
at it, particularly as it happen 'd so unxpectedly, he
having lately been better to all Appearances than for
many Months before. I have not heard how the
Post-Office is dispos'd of, but I wish Coz. Davenport

had it.

The Prop^ Party give out that Col. Wm Skinner
(Bror to our Attorney Gen1) is coming over Govr of
the Province. He has an Interest with Col. Fitzroy,
the D. of Grafton's Brother, who married his relation
Miss Warren. The Govr of Barbadoes has Leave to

1 766] Benjamin Franklin 239

return Home for a i2month, when he expects to
resign. In Haste. Your dutiful Son,

W. F.

CCLXXXI

TO MRS. MARY FRANKLIN

London, 26 August, 1766.

Dear Sister: — It has pleased God at length to
to take from us my only remaining brother, and
your affectionate husband, with whom you have
lived in uninterrupted harmony and love near half
a century.

Considering the many dangers and hardships his
way of life led him into, and the weakness of his
constitution, it is wonderful that he lasted so long.
It was God's goodness that spared him to us. Let
us, instead of repining at what we have lost, be
thankful for what we have enjoyed.

Before this can reach you, every thing that can be
said to you by way of consolation, will have been
said to you by your friends, or will have occurred to
your own good understanding. It is therefore need-
less for me to enlarge on that head. But as you
may be under some apprehensions for your future
subsistence, I am desirous of making you as easy and
comfortable in that respect as I can. Your adopted
son, Mr. Brown, has wrote to me, very properly,
"that he shall always think it his duty to stand
by and assist you to the utmost of his power." He
is yet young ; but I hope he has solidity enough to

240 The Works of [1766

conduct a printing-house with prudence and to ad-
vantage. I shall, therefore, put one into his hands,
to be carried on in partnership with you ; and if he
manages well, I shall hereafter farther encourage him.
I have not time to write to him now, but shall by the
packet. I have, however, desired my wife to deliver
to you and him the press and letters that were B.
Mecom's, which Mr. Parker used at Burlington; and
to let you go into the house where I suppose they
are, as the rent of that you are now in is heavy. I
can now only add that I am, as ever,
Your affectionate brother,

B. Franklin.

CCLXXXII

TO CHARLES THOMSON

London, 27 September, 1766.

Dear Friend and Neighbour:

I received your very kind letter of May 20th, which
came here while I was absent in Germany. The fa-
vorable sentiments you express of my conduct, with
regard to the repeal of the Stamp Act, give me real
pleasure ; and I hope, in every other matter of public
concern, so to behave myself as to stand fair in the
opinion of the wise and good, and what the rest think
and say of me will then give me less concern.

That part of your letter which relates to the situa-
tion of people's minds in America before and after
the repeal, was so well expressed, and in my opinion
so proper to be generally read and understood here,

1766] Benjamin Franklin 241

that I had it printed in the London Chronicle. I had
the pleasure to find, that it did good in several in-
stances within my knowledge.

There are claimers enough of merit in obtaining
the repeal. But, if I live to see you, I will let you
know what an escape we had in the beginning of the
affair, and how much we were obliged to what the
profane would call luck, and the pious, Providence.

You will give an old man leave to say, " My love
to Mrs. Thomson." With sincere regard, I am your
affectionate friend, B. Franklin.

CCLXXXIII

TO MRS. DEBORAH FRANKLIN

London, ii October, 1766.

My Dear Child : — I received your kind little let-
ter of August 26th, by the packet. Scarce any one
else wrote to me by that opportunity. I suppose
they imagined I should not be returned from Ger-
many. Pray did you ever get the letters and cam-
bric I sent you by Mr. Yates? You told me he had
lost them, but hoped to find them again. You do not
say in any of your subsequent letters whether he
found them, or whether our generous adversaries
have got them, and keep them for their own amuse-
ment, as you know they did some of my former letters.
I wish you would always mention the dates of the let-
ters you receive from me; for then, as I generally
keep copies, I should know what get to hand, and
what miscarry.

VOL. IV. — 16.

242 The Works of [1766

I grieve for the loss of dear Miss Ross. She was
indeed an amiable girl. It must be a great affliction
to her parents and friends. In my last I desired you
to get Mr. Rhoads to send me a little sketch of the
lot and wall ; but I have since found one he sent me
before ; so it is not necessary ; only tell me whether
it takes in part of the late controverted lot, and
how high it comes on both sides, and whereabouts
the wall is. By the way, you never have told me
what the award was. I wish I could see a copy
of it.

There are but two Franklins remaining in England,
descended from my grandfather; to wit, my uncle
John's grandson, Thomas Franklin, who is a dyer
at Lutterworth, in Leicestershire, and has a daughter
about thirteen years of age, named Sally. He
brought her to town to see me in the spring, and Mrs.
Stevenson persuaded him to leave the child under her
care for a little schooling and improvement while I
went abroad. When I returned, I found her indeed
much improved, and grown a fine girl. She is sensi-
ble, and of a sweet, obliging temper, but is now ill
of a violent fever, and I doubt we shall lose her,
which particularly afflicts Mrs. Stevenson, not only as
she has contracted a great affection for the child,
but as it was she that persuaded her father to leave
her here. Mrs. Stevenson presents her best respects.
Polly is gone home to her aunt's at Kensington.
My love to our children and all inquiring friends. I
am your ever loving husband,

B. Franklin.

1766] Benjamin Franklin 243

CCLXXXIV

REMARKS ON A PLAN FOR THE FUTURE MANAGEMENT
OF INDIAN AFFAIRS *

The regulations in this Plan seem to me to be in
general very good ; but some few appear to want ex-
planation, or farther consideration.

Clause 3. Is it intended by this clause to prevent
the trade that Indians, living near the frontiers, may
choose to carry on with the inhabitants, by bringing
their skins into the settlements ? This prevention is
hardly practicable ; as such trade may be carried on
in many places out of the observation of government,
the frontier being of great extent, and the inhabi-
tants thinly settled in the woods, and remote from
each other. The Indians, too, do not everywhere
live in towns sufficiently numerous to encourage tra-
ders to reside among them; but in scattered families,
here and there, often shifting their situation for the
sake of better hunting; and if they are near the
English settlements, it would seem to them very hard

1 The Plan remarked upon was under the consideration of the
ministry before the close of the year 1766, and, as I am inclined to
think, after the commencement of 1765. I can go no nearer as to its
date. It is needless to enter into the particulars of it, as the Remarks
explain themselves; except perhaps as to the following points:

The trade was to be open; there were to be two superintendents to
it; in the northern district, the trade was to be carried on at fixed
posts; in the southern, within the Indian towns; the military were to
have no power over the superintendents or the Indian trade, even in
war times, unless with the superintendents' assent, or in great ex-
igencies; the superintendents, by themselves or deputies, were to make
annual visitations among the Indians, and their proceedings were to
be very summary; and no credit was to be given to the Indians beyond
fifty shillings, for no higher debt was to be made recoverable. — B. V.

244 The Works of [1766

to be obliged to carry their skins for sale to remote
towns or posts, when they could dispose of them to
their neighbours, with less trouble and to greater ad-
vantage; as the goods they want for them, are and
must be dearer at such remote posts.

4. The colony " laws for regulating Indian affairs
or commerce" are the result of long experience,
made by people on the spot, interested to make them
good; and it would be well to consider the matter
thoroughly, before they are repealed, to make way
for new and untried schemes.

By whom are they to be repealed? By the colony
assemblies, or by Parliament? Some difficulty will
arise here.

13. The districts seem too large for this. The In-
dians under the care of the northern superintendent,
by this plan, border on the colonies of Nova Scotia,
Quebec, New Hampshire, Massachusetts, Connecti-
cut, New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Maryland,
Virginia; the superintendent's situation, remote
from many of these, may occasion great inconven-
ience, if his consent is always to be necessary in such
cases.

14. This seems too much to be done when thevast-
ness of the district is considered. If there were more
districts and smaller, it might be more practicable.

15 and 16. Are these agents or commissaries to try
causes where life is concerned? Would it not be
better to send the criminals into some civil, well-
settled government or colony, for trial, where good
juries can be had?

18. "Chief for the whole tribe; who shall con-

1766] Benjamin Franklin 245

stantly reside with the commissary," &c. Provision
must then be made for his maintenance, as particular
Indians have no estates, but live by hunting; and
their public has no funds or revenues. Being used
to rambling, it would perhaps not be easy to find one,
who would be obliged to this constant residence ; but
it may be tried.

22. If the agent and his deputies, and the commis-
saries, are not to trade, should it not be a part of
their oath, that they will have no concern in such
trade, directly or indirectly? Private agreements
between them and the traders, for share of profits,
should be guarded against ; and the same care taken
to prevent, if possible, private agreements between
them and the purchasers of Indian lands.

31 . " or trading at any other post," &c. This

should be so expressed as to make the master liable
for the offence of the servant; otherwise it will have
no effect.

33. I doubt the settling of tariffs will be a matter
of difficulty. There may be differences of fineness,
goodness, and value, in the goods of different traders,
that cannot be properly allowed for by general tariffs.
And it seems contrary to the nature of commerce,
for government to interfere in the prices of com-
modities. Trade is a voluntary thing between buyer
and seller; in every article of which each exercises
his own judgment, and is to please himself. Suppose
either Indian or trader is dissatisfied with the tariff,
and refuses barter on those terms; are the refusers
to be compelled? If not, why should an Indian be
forbidden to take more goods for his skins than your

246 The Works of [1766

tariff allows, if the trader is willing to give them ; or
a trader more skins for his goods, if the Indian is
willing to give them? Where there are a number of
traders, the separate desire of each to get more cus-
tom will operate in bringing down their goods to a
reasonable price. It therefore seems to me, that
trade will best find and make its own rates ; and that
government cannot well interfere, unless it will take
the whole trade into its own hands (as in some
colonies it does), and manage it by its own servants,
at its own risk.

38. I apprehend that if the Indians cannot get
rum of fair traders, it will be a great means of defeat-
ing all these regulations that direct the trade to be
carried on at certain posts. The countries and for-
ests are so very large, it is scarce possible to guard
every part, so as to prevent unlicensed traders draw-
ing the Indians and the trade to themselves, by rum
and other spirituous liquors, which all savage people
are so fond of. I think they will generally trade
where they can get rum, preferably to where it is
refused them; and the proposed prohibition will
therefore be a great encouragement to unlicensed
traders, and promote such trade. If the commis-
saries, or officers at the posts, can prevent the selling
of rum during the barter for other goods, and until
the Indians are about going away, it is perhaps all
that is practicable or necessary. The missionaries
will, among other things, endeavour to prevail with
them to live soberly and avoid drunkenness.

39. The Indian trade, so far as credit is concerned,
has hitherto been carried on wholly upon honor.

1766] Benjamin Franklin 247

They have among themselves no such thing as prisons
or confinement for debt. This article seems to imply,
that an Indian may be compelled by law to pay a
debt of fifty shillings or under. Our legal method of
compulsion is by imprisonment. The Indians can-
not and will not imprison one another; and, if we
attempt to imprison them, I apprehend it would
be generally disliked by the nations, and occasion
breaches. They have such high ideas of the value
of personal liberty, and such slight ones of the value
of personal property, that they would think the dis-
proportion monstrous between the liberty of a man
and a debt of a few shillings; and that it would be
excessively inequitable and unjust, to take away the
one for a default in payment of the other. It seems
to me, therefore, best to leave that matter on its
present footing; the debts under fifty shillings as
irrecoverable by law, as this article proposes for the
debts above fifty shillings. Debts of honor are gen-
erally as well paid as other debts. Where no com-
pulsion can be used, it is more disgraceful to be
dishonest. If the trader thinks his risk greater in
trusting any particular Indian, he will either not do
it, or proportion his price to his risk.

44. As the goods for the Indian trade all come
from England, and the peltry is chiefly brought to
England, perhaps it will be best to lay the duty
here on the exportation of the one and the impor-
tation of the other, to avoid meddling with the
question of the right to lay duties in America by
Parliament here.

If it is thought proper to carry the trading part of

248 The Works of [1766

this plan into execution, would it not be well to try it
first in a few posts, to which the present colony laws
for regulating the Indian trade do not reach ; that by
experience its utility may be ascertained, or its de-
fects discovered and amended before it is made gen-
eral, and those laws repealed to make way for it? If
the Indians find by experience that they are better
used in their trade at the posts under these regula-
tions than at other places, may it not make them de-
sirous of having the regulations extended to other
places, and when extended better satisfied with them
upon reflection and comparison?

CCLXXXV

HINTS FOR A REPLY TO THE PROTESTS OF CERTAIN
MEMBERS OF THE HOUSE OF LORDS AGAINST THE
REPEAL OF THE STAMP ACT.

The following "Hints" were found in the margin of
Dr. Franklin's printed copy of the protests written at the
time , from which it would appear that it was his
intention to make a formal answer to these Protests.
This purpose does not yet appear to have been executed.
— Editor.

First Protest

We have submitted to your laws ; no proof of our
acknowledgment of your power to make them;
rather an acknowledgment of their reasonableness,
or of our own weakness. Post-office came as a matter
of utility; was aided by the legislature. Mean to

1766] Benjamin Franklin 249

take advantage of our ignorance. Children should
not be imposed on; are not, even by honest shop-
keepers. A great and magnanimous nation should
disdain to govern by tricks and traps, that would
disgrace a pettifogging attorney.

Settlement of the colonies stated. Parliament not
consulted; not till after the Restoration, except by
rebel Parliament. Anxious about preserving the
sovereignty of this country? Rather be so about
preserving the liberty. We shall be so about the
liberty of America, that your posterity may have a
free country to come to, where they will be received
with open arms.

King, the sovereign, cannot take in his Parliament;
at least, can give no greater power than he had himself.

Compliment the Lords. Not a wiser or better
body of men on earth. The deep respect impressed
on me by the instance I have been witness to of their
justice. They have been misled by misinformation.
Proof of my opinion of their goodness, in the freedom
with which I propose to examine their Protests.

The trust of taxing America was never reposed by
the people of America in the legislature of Great
Britain. They had one kind of confidence, indeed,
in that legislature; that it would never attempt to
tax them without their consent. The law was de-
structive of that confidence among them.

Other advantages of colonies besides commerce.
Selfishness of commercial views.

The sovereignty of the crown I understand. The
sovereignty of the British legislature out of Britain I
do not understand.

250 The Works of [1766

The fear of being thought weak is a timidity and
weakness of the worst sort, as it betrays into a persist-
ing in errors that may be much more mischievous
than the appearance of weakness. A great and pow-
erful state like this has no cause for such timidity.

Acknowledging and correcting an error shows great
magnanimity. Small states and small republics
cannot afford to do so.

America not in the realm of England or Great
Britain ? No man in America thinks himself exempt
from the jurisdiction of the crown, and of the
assemblies, or has any such private judgment.

The agitation of the question of rights makes it
now necessary to settle a constitution for the colonies.
Restrictions should be only for the general good.
Endeavour to convince reasonable creatures by
reason. Try your hands with me.

Never think of it. They are reasonable creatures.
Reasonable laws will not require force.

I observe two or three Scotch Lords protest.
Many more voted against the repeal. Colonies set-
tled before the union. Query : If the Parliament had
a jurisdiction over the colonies by the first settlement,
had they a right to introduce new legislators ? Could
they sell or commute the right with other nations?
Can they introduce the Peers of Ireland and Com-
mons, and the States of Holland, and make them
legislators of the colonies? How could Scotland
acquire a right to legislation over English colonies,
but by consent of the colonies themselves?

I am a subject of the crown of Great Britain; have
ever been a loyal one; have partaken of its favors.

1766] Benjamin Franklin 251

I write here with freedom, relying on the magna-
nimity of the Parliament. I say nothing to your
Lordships, that I have not been indulged to say to the
Commons. Your Lordships' names are to your
Protest, therefore I think I ought to put mine to the
answer. Desire what I have said may not be im-
puted to the colonies. I am a private person and do
not write by their direction. I am over here to solicit,
in behalf of my colony, a closer communication with
the crown.

Second Protest

Talk with Bollan on this head. Query: Courts of
common law? Particular colonies drained; all
drained, as it would all come home. Those that
would pay most of the tax would have least of it
spent at home. It must go to the conquered colonies.
The view of maps deceives.

All breach of the constitution. Juries better to be
trusted. Have rather an interest in suppressing
smugglers. Nature of smuggling. It is picking of
pockets. All oppressions take their rise from some
plea of utility; often in appearance only.

The clamor of multitudes. It is good to attend to
it. It is wiser to foresee and avoid it. It is wise,
when neither foreseen nor avoided, to correct the
measures that give occasion to it. Glad the majority
have that wisdom.

Wish your Lordships had attended to that other
great article of the palladium: "Taxes shall not be
laid but by common consent in Parliament." We
Americans were not here to give our consent.

252 The Works of [1766

My duty to the King, and justice to my country,
will, I hope, justify me if I likewise protest which I
now do with all humility in behalf of myself and of
every American, and of our posterity, against your
declaratory bill, that the Parliament of Great Britain
has not, never had, and of right never can have,
without consent given either before or after, power
to make laws of sufficient force to bind the subjects
in America in any case whatever, and particularly in
taxation.

I can only judge of others by myself. I have some
little property in America. I will freely spend nine-
teen shillings in the pound to defend my right of
giving or refusing the other shilling, and, after all,
if I cannot defend that right, I can retire cheerfully
with my little family into the boundless woods of
America, which are sure to afford freedom and
subsistence to any man who can bait a hook or pull
a trigger.

CCLXXXVI

OBSERVATIONS

ON PASSAGES IN "A LETTER FROM A MERCHANT IN LONDON TO
HIS NEPHEW IN NORTH AMERICA"

London, 1766. 1

Extract. "The honest indignation you express
against those artifices and frauds, those robberies and
insults, which lost us the hearts and affections of the
Indians, is particularly to be commended ; for these

1 Marginal notes in Franklin's pamphlets.

1766] Benjamin Franklin 253

were the things, as you justly observed, which in-
volved us in the most bloody and expensive war that
ever was known."

Observation. This is wickedly intended by the
author, Dean Tucker, to represent the North Ameri-
cans as the cause of the war. Whereas it was in fact
begun by the French, who seized the goods and per-
sons of the English traders on the Ohio who en-
croached on the King's land in Nova Scotia, and
took a fort from the Ohio Company by force of arms,
which induced England to make reprisals at sea, and
to send Braddock to recover the fort on the Ohio,
whence came on the war.

" By the spirit of Magna Charta all taxes laid on
by Parliament are constitutional, legal taxes."

" But then it is to be further observed that this
same method of arguing is equally favorable to gov-
ernors as governed, and to the mother country as the
colonies."

Here is the old mistake of all these writers. The
people of the mother country are subjects, not
governors. The King only is sovereign in both
countries.

" The colonies will no longer think it equitable to
insist upon immunities which the people of Great
Britain do not enjoy."

Why not, if they have a right to them?

" To claim a right of being taxed by their assem-
blies only, appears to have too much the air of inde-
pendence, and though they are not represented here,
would give them an immunity beyond the inhabi-
tants of this island."

254 The Works of [1766

It is a right, however; what signifies what air it
has? The inhabitants being freeholders ought to
have the same. If they have it not, they are injured.
Then rectify what is amiss among yourselves; and
do not make it a justification of more wrong.

"Or could they hope to procure any advantages
from one hundred representatives? Common sense
answers all this in the negative."

Why not, as well as Scotland from forty-five, or
rather sixty-one? Common sense, on the contrary,
says, that a body of one hundred votes in Parliament,
will always be worth the attention of any ministry;
and the fear of offending them will make every minis-
ter cautions of injuring the rights of their country,
lest they join with his opposers in Parliament.

" Therefore the interest of Great Britain and that
of the colonies is the same."

All this argument of the interest of Britain and the
colonies being the same is fallacious and unsatisfac-
tory. Partners in trade have a common interest,
which is the same, the flourishing of the partnership
business; but they may, moreover, have each a
separate interest, and, in pursuit of that separate in-
terest, one of them may endeavour to impose on the
other, may cheat him in the accounts, may draw to
himself more than his share of the profits, may put
upon the other more than an equal share of the ex-
pense and burden. Their having a common interest
is no security against such injustice. The land-
holders of Great Britain have a common interest, and
yet they injure one another in the inequality of the
land tax. The majority in Parliament, being favored

1766] Benjamin Franklin 255

in the proportions, will never consent to do justice to
the minority by a more equal assessment.

" But what reasonable ground of apprehension can
there be, that the British Parliament should be igno-
rant of so plain a matter, as that the interests of
Britain and the colonies are the same? "

If the Parliament is so knowing and so just, how
comes it to restrain Ireland in its manufactures,
America in its trade ? Why may not an Irishman or
an American make the same manufactures, and carry
them to the same ports, as an Englishman ? In many
instances Britain shows a selfish regard to her own
interest, in prejudice to the colonies. America,
therefore, has no confidence in her equity.

" But I can conceive no earthly security better,
none indeed so good, as that which depends upon
the wisdom and integrity of a British King and
Parliament."

Suppose seats in your House of Commons heredi-
tary, as those of the House of Lords; or suppose the
Commons to be nominated by the King, or chosen
by the Lords; could you then rely upon them? If
your members were to be chosen by the people of
Ireland, could you then rely upon them? Could you
depend upon their wisdom and integrity as a security,
the best possible, for your rights? And wherein is
our case different, if the people of England choose
legislators for the people of America?

" If they have a spark of virtue left, they will blush
to be found in a posture of hostility against Great
Britain."
There was no posture of hostility in America, but

256 The Works of [1766

Britain put herself in a posture of hostility against
America. Witness the landing of the troops in
Boston, 1768.

CCLXXXVII

OBSERVATIONS

ON PASSAGES IN A PAMPHLET ENTITLED " GOOD HUMOR, OR
AWAY WITH THE COLONIES"1

Extract. "The reply of the governor of Massa-
chusetts to the assembly's answer is in the same con-
sistent style; and affords still a stronger proof, as
well of his own ingenuity, honor, and integrity, as of
the furious and enthusiastic spirit of the province."

Observation. They knew the governor to be, as it
afterwards turned out, their enemy and calumniator
in private letters to government here.

" It had been more becoming the state of the colo-
nies, always dear to Britain, and ever cherished and
defended by it, to have remonstrated in terms of filial
duty and obedience."

How ignorant is this writer of facts ! How many
of their remonstrances were rejected!

" They must give us leave, in our turn, to except
against their demonstration of legal exemption."

There never was any occasion of legal exemption
from what they never had been subject to.

There is no doubt but taxes laid by Parliament,

1 The passages included within quotation marks are extracts from
the pamphlet, and the sentence following each contains Dr. Franklin's
observations, which were copied from Franklin's pamphlets.

1766] Benjamin Franklin 257

where the Parliament has jurisdiction, are legal taxes ;
but does it follow that taxes laid by the Parliament
of England on Scotland before the union, on Guern-
sey, Jersey, Ireland, Hanover, or any other domin-
ions of the crown not within the realm, are therefore
legal ? These writers against the colonies all bewilder
themselves by supposing the colonies within the
realm, which is not the case, nor ever was. This
then is the spirit of the constitution, that taxes shall
not be laid without the consent of those to be taxed.
The colonies were not then in being, and therefore
nothing relating to them could be literally expressed.
As the Americans are now without the realm, and
not of the jurisdiction of Parliament, the spirit of the
British constitution dictates that they should be
taxed only by their own representatives, as the Eng-
lish are by theirs.

" Now the first emigrants who settled in America
were certainly English subjects, subject to the laws
and jurisdiction of Parliament, and consequently to
parliamentary taxes, before the emigration, and
therefore subject afterwards, unless some legal con-
stitutional exemption can be produced."

This position supposes that Englishmen can never
be out of the jurisdiction of Parliament. It may as
well be said that wherever an Englishman resides,
that country is England. While an Englishman re-
sides in England, he is undoubtedly subject to its
laws. If he goes into a foreign country, he is subject
to the laws and government he finds there. If he
finds no government or laws there, he is subject there
to none, till he and his companions, if he has any,

VOL. IV. — 17.

258 The Works of [1766

make laws for themselves; and this was the case of
the first settlers in America. Otherwise, and if they
carried the English laws and power of Parliament
with them, what advantage could the Puritans pro-
pose to themselves by going, since they would have
been as subject to bishops, spiritual courts, tithes,
and statutes relating to the church, in America as in
England? Can the Dean, on his principles, tell how
it happens that those laws, the game acts, the
statutes for laborers, and an infinity of others, made
before and since the emigration, are not in force in
America, nor ever were?

" Now, upon the first settling of an English colony,
and before ever you Americans could have chosen
any representatives, and therefore before any assem-
bly of such representatives could have possibly met,
to whose laws and to what legislative power were you
then subject? To the English, most undoubtedly;
for you could have been subject to no other."

The author here appears quite ignorant of the fact.
The colonies carried no law with them ; they carried
only a power of making laws, or adopting such parts
of the English law, or of any other law, as they
should think suitable to their circumstances. The
first settlers of Connecticut, for instance, at their first
meeting in that country, finding themselves out of all
jurisdiction of other governments, resolved and en-
acted, that, till a code of laws should be prepared
and agreed to, they would be governed by the law of
Moses, as contained in the Old Testament.

If the first settlers had no right to expect a better
constitution than the English, what fools were they

J766] Benjamin Franklin 259

for going over, to encounter all the hardships and
perils of new settlements in a wilderness! For these
were so many additions to what they suffered at
home, from tyrannical and oppressive institutions in
church and state; with a subtraction of all their old
enjoyments of the conveniences and comforts of an
old-settled country, friends, neighbours, relations,
and homes.

" Suppose, therefore, that the crown had been so
ill advised as to have granted a charter to any city or
county here in England, pretending to exempt them
from the power and jurisdiction of an English Parlia-
ment. Is it possible for you to believe an absurdity
so gross and glaring?"

The American settlers needed no exemption from
the power of Parliament; they were necessarily ex-
empted, as soon as they landed out of its jurisdiction.
Therefore, all this rhetorical paragraph is founded on
a mistake of the author, and the absurdity he talks
of is of his own making.

" Good heavens ! What a sudden alteration is this !
An American pleading for the extension of the pre-
rogative of the crown! Yes, if it could make for his
cause; and for extending it, too, beyond all the
bounds of law, of reason, and of common sense! "

What stuff! Why may not an American plead for
the just prerogatives of the crown? And is it not a
just prerogative of the crown to give the subjects leave
to settle in a foreign country, if they think it neces-
sary to ask such leave? Was the Parliament at all
considered, or consulted, in making those first settle-
ments ? Or did any lawyer then think it necessary ?

260 The Works of [1766

"Now this clause, which is nothing more than the
renunciation of absolute prerogative, is quoted in our
newspapers as if it was a renunciation of the rights
of Parliament to raise taxes."

It was not a renunciation of the rights of Parlia-
ment. There was no need of such a renunciation,
for Parliament had not even pretended to such a
right. But since the royal faith was pledged by the
King for himself and his successors, how can any suc-
ceeding King, without violating that faith, ever
give his assent to an act of Parliament for such
taxation ?

11 Nay, many of your colony charters assert quite
the contrary, by containing the express reservations
of parliamentary rights, particularly that great one
of levying taxes."

A fib, Mr. Dean. In one charter only, and that a
late one, is the Parliament mentioned; and the right
reserved is only that of laying duties on commodities
imported into England from the colony, or exported
to it.

" And those charters, which do not make such pro-
visions in express terms, must be supposed virtually
to imply them; because the law and constitution will
not allow that the King can do more, either at home
or abroad, by the prerogative royal, than the law and
constitution authorize him to do."

Suppositions and implications will not weigh in
these important cases. No law or constitution for-
bade the King's doing what he did in granting those
charters.

" Confuted, most undoubtedly, you are beyond the

1766] Benjamin Franklin 261

possibility of a reply, as far as the law and constitu-
tion of the realm are concerned in this question."

This is hallooing before you are out of the wood.

" Strange, that though the British Parliament has
been, from the beginning, thus unreasonable, thus
unjust and cruel towards you, by levying taxes on
many commodities outwards and inwards ' ' —

False! Never before the Restoration. The Par-
liament, it is acknowledged, have made many oppres-
sive laws relating to America, which have passed
without opposition, partly through the weakness of
the colonies, partly through the inattention to the
full extent of their rights, while employed in labor to
procure the necessaries of life. But that is a wicked
guardian, and a shameless one, who first takes ad-
vantage of the weakness incident to minority, cheats
and imposes on his pupil, and, when the pupil comes
of age, urges those very impositions as precedents to
justify continuing them and adding others.

" But surely you will not dare to say that we refuse
your votes when you come hither to offer them, and
choose to poll. You cannot have the face to assert,
on an election-day any difference is put between the
vote of a man born in America and of one born here
in England."

This is all banter and insult, when you know the
impossibility of a million of freeholders coming over
sea to vote here. If their freeholds in America are
within the realm, why have they not, in virtue of
these freeholds, a right to vote in your elections, as
well as an English freeholder? Sometimes we are
told, that our estates are by our charters all in the

262 The Works of [1766

manor of East Greenwich, and therefore all in Eng-
land; and yet have we any right to vote among the
voters of East Greenwich ? Can we trade to the same
ports ? In this very paragraph, you suppose that we
cannot vote in England, if we come hither, till we
have by purchase acquired a right ; therefore neither
we nor our estates are represented in England.

"The cause of your complaint is this; that you
live at too great a distance from the mother country
to be present at our English elections; and that, in
consequence of this distance, the freedom of our
towns, or the freeholds in our counties, as far as vot-
ing is concerned, are not worth attending to. It may
be so ; but pray consider, if you yourselves choose to
make it inconvenient for you to come and vote, by
retiring into distant countries, what is that to us ? "

This is all beside the mark. The Americans are by
their constitutions provided with a representation,
and therefore neither need nor desire any in the
British Parliament. They have never asked any
such thing. They only say : Since we have a right to
grant our own money to the King, since we have
assemblies where we are represented for such pur-
poses, why will you meddle, out of your sphere, take
the money that is ours, and give us yours, without
our consent?

" Yes, it is, and you demand it too with a loud
voice, full of anger, of defiance, and denunciation."

An absolute falsehood! We never demanded
in any manner, much less in the manner you men-
tion, that the mother country should change her
constitution.

1766] Benjamin Franklin 263

" In the great metropolis, and in many other cities,
landed property itself hath no representative in Par-
liament. Copy-holds and lease-holds of various
kinds have none likewise, though of ever so great
a value."

Copy-holds and lease-holds are supposed to be rep-
resented in the original landlord of whom they are
held. Thus all the land in England is in fact repre-
sented, notwithstanding what he here says. As to
those who have no landed property in a county, the
allowing them to vote for legislators is an impro-
priety. They are transient inhabitants, and not so
connected with the welfare of the state, which they
may quit when they please, as to qualify them
properly for such privilege.

"And, besides all this, it is well known that the
East India Company, which have such vast settle-
ments, and which dispose of the fate of kings and
kingdoms abroad, have not so much as a single mem-
ber, or even a single vote, quatenus a company, to
watch over their interests at home. And may not
their property, perhaps a little short of one hundred
millions sterling, as much deserve to be represented in
Parliament, as the scattered townships or straggling
houses of some of your provinces in America ? ' '

By this argument it may be proved, that no man in
England has a vote. The clergy have none as clergy-
men; the lawyers, none as lawyers; the physicians,
none as physicians; and so on. But if they have
votes as freeholders, that is sufficient; and that, no
freeholder in America has for a representative in the
British Parliament. The stockholders are many of

264 The Works of [1766

them foreigners, and all may be so when they please,
as nothing is more easy than the transferring of stock
and conveying property beyond sea by bills of ex-
change. Such uncertain subjects are, therefore, not
properly vested with rights relating to government.

" Yet we raise no commotions; we neither ring the
alarm-bell, nor sound the trumpet, and submit to be
taxed without being represented ; and taxed, let me
tell you, for your sakes. All was granted when you
cried for help."

This is wickedly false. While the colonies were
weak and poor, not a penny or a single soldier was
ever spared by Britain for their defence. But as
soon as the trade with them became an object, and a
fear arose, that the French would seize that trade
and deprive her of it, she sent troops to America
unasked. And she now brings this account of the
expense against us, which should be rather carried to
her own merchants and manufacturers. We joined
our troops and treasure with hers to help her in this
war. Of this no notice is taken. To refuse to pay a
just debt is knavish; not to return an obligation is
ingratitude ; but to demand payment of a debt where
none has been contracted, to forge a bond or an obli-
gation in order to demand what was never due, is
villany. Every year both King and Parliament,
during the war, acknowledged that we had done more
than our part, and made us some return, which is
equivalent to a receipt in full, and entirely sets aside
this monstrous claim.

By all means redress your own grievances. If you
are not just to your own people, how can we trust

1766] Benjamin Franklin 265

you ? We ask no representation among you ; but, if
you have any thing wrong among yourselves, rectify
it, and do not make one injustice a precedent and plea
for doing another. That would be increasing evil in
the world instead of diminishing it.

You need not be concerned about the number to
be added from America. We do not desire to come
among you ; but you may make some room for your
own additional members, by removing those that are
sent by the rotten boroughs.

" I must now tell you, that every member of Parlia-
ment represents you and me, and our interests in all
essential points, just as much as if we had voted for
him. For, although one place or one set of men
may elect and send him up to Parliament, yet, when
once he becomes a member, he is the equal guardian
of all."

In the same manner, Mr. Dean, are the Pope and
Cardinals representatives of the whole Christian
church. Why don't you obey them?

"This, then, being the case, it therefore fol-
lows, that our Birminghams, Manchesters, Leedses,
Halifaxes, &c, and your Bostons, New Yorks, and
Philadelphias, are as really, though not so nominally,
represented, as any part whatsoever of the British
empire; and that each of these places has in fact,
instead of one or two, not less than five hundred
and fifty-eight guardians in the British Senate."

What occasion is there then, my dear Sir, of being
at the trouble of election? The Peers alone would
do as well for our guardians, though chosen by the
King, or born such. If their present number is too

266 The Works of [1766

small, his Majesty may be good enough to add five
hundred and fifty-eight, or make the present House
of Commons and their heirs-male Peers for ever. If
having a vote in elections would be of no use to us,
how is it of any to you? Elections are the cause of
much tumult, riot, contention, and mischief. Get
rid of them at once and for ever.

" It proves that no man ought to pay any tax, but
that only to which the member of his own town, city,
or county hath particularly assented."

You seem to take your nephew for a simpleton,
Mr. Dean. Every one who votes for a representative
knows and intends that the majority is to govern,
and that the consent of the majority is to be under-
stood as the consent of the whole; that being ever
the case in all deliberative assemblies.

"The doctrine of implication is the very thing to
which you object, and against which you have raised
so many batteries of popular noise and clamor."

How far, my dear Sir, would you yourself carry
the doctrine of implication? If important positions
are to be implied when not expressed, I suppose you
can have no objection to their being implied where
some expression countenances the implication. If
you should say to a friend, " I am your humble ser-
vant, Sir," ought he to imply from thence, that you
will clean his shoes?

"And consequently you must maintain, that all
those in your several provinces, who have no votes,"
&c.

No freeholder in North America is without a vote.
Many, who have no freeholds, have nevertheless a

1766] Benjamin Franklin 267

vote; which, indeed, I don't think was necessary to be
allowed.

" You have your choice, whether you will accept of
my price for your tobacco; or, after bringing it here,
whether you will carry it away, and try your fortune
at another market."

A great kindness this, to oblige me first to bring it
here, that the expense of another voyage and freight
may deter me from carrying it away, and oblige me
to take the price you are pleased to offer.

" But I have no alternative allowed, being obliged
to buy yours at your own price, or else to pay such a
duty for the tobacco of other countries as must
amount to a prohibition. Nay, in order to favor
your plantations, I am not permitted to plant this
herb on my own estate, though the soil should be
ever so proper for it."

You lay a duty on the tobacco of other countries,
because you must pay money for that, but get ours
in exchange for your manufactures.

Tobacco is not permitted to be planted in England,
lest it should interfere with corn necessary for your
subsistence. Rice you cannot raise. It requires
eleven months. Your summer is too short. Nature,
not the laws, denies you this product.

" And what will you say in relation to hemp ? The
Parliament now gives you a bounty of eight pounds
per ton for exporting your hemp from North America,
but will allow me nothing for growing it here in
England."

Did ever any North-American bring his hemp to
England for this bounty? We have not yet enough

268 The Works of [1766

for our own consumption. We begin to make our
own cordage. You want to suppress that manufac-
ture, and would do it by getting the raw material
from us. You want to be supplied with hemp for
your manufactures and Russia demands money.
These were the motives for giving what you are
pleased to call a bounty to us. We thank you for
your bounties. We love you, and therefore must be
obliged to you for being good to yourselves. You
do not encourage raising hemp in England, because
you know it impoverishes the richest grounds ; your
landholders are all against it. What you call boun-
ties given by Parliament and the Society, are nothing
more than inducements offered us, to persuade us to
leave employments that are more profitable, and en-
gage in such as would be less so without your bounty ;
to quit a business profitable to ourselves, and engage
in one that shall be profitable to you. This is the
true spirit of all your bounties.

Your duties on foreign articles are from the same
motives. Pitch, tar, and turpentine used to cost you
five pounds a barrel, when you had them from for-
eigners, who used you ill into the bargain, thinking
you could not do without them. You gave a bounty
of five shillings a barrel to the colonies, and they have
brought you such plenty as to reduce the price to ten
shillings a barrel. Take back your bounties, when
you please, since you upbraid us with them. Buy
your indigo, pitch, silk, tobacco where you please,
and let us buy our manufactures where we please. I
fancy we shall be gainers. As to the great kindness
of these five hundred and fifty-eight parliamentary

1766] Benjamin Franklin 269

guardians of American privileges, who can forbear
smiling, that has seen the Navigation Act, the
Hatters' Act, the Steel-Hammer and Slit-Iron Act,
and numberless others, restraining our trade, ob-
structing our manufactures, and forbidding us the use
of the gifts of God and nature. Hopeful guardians,
truly ! Can it be imagined that, if we had a reason-
able share in electing them from time to time, they
would thus have used us?

"And must have seen abundant reason before this
time, to have altered your former hasty and rash
opinion."

We see in you abundance of self-conceit, but no
convincing argument.

" Have you no concerts or assemblies, no play-
houses or gaming-houses, now subsisting ? Have you
put down your horse-races and other such like sports
and diversions? And is the luxury of your tables,
and the variety and profusion of your wines and
liquors, quite banished from among you? "

This should be a caution to Americans how they
indulge for the future in British luxuries. See here
British generosity ! The people, who have made you
poor by their worthless, I mean useless, commodities,
would now make you poorer by taxing you ; and from
the very inability you have brought on yourselves, by
a partiality for their fashions and modes of living, of
which they have had the whole profit, would now
urge your ability to pay the taxes they are pleased to
impose. Reject, then, their commerce, as well as
their pretended power of taxing. Be frugal and in-
dustrious, and you will be free. The luxury of your

270 The Works of [1766

tables, which could be known to the English only by
your hospitably entertaining them, is by these grate-
ful guests now made a charge against you, and given
as a reason for taxing you.

" Be it also allowed, as it is commonly asserted,
that the public debt of the several provinces amounts
to eight hundred thousand pounds sterling."

I have heard, Mr. Dean, that you have studied
political arithmetic more than divinity, but from this
sample of it I fear to very little purpose. If personal
service were the matter in question, out of so many
millions of souls so many men might be expected,
whether here or in America. But when raising
money is the question, it is not the number of souls,
but the wealth in possession that shows the ability.
If we were twice as numerous as the people of Eng-
land, it would not follow that we are half as able.
There are numbers of single estates in England, each
worth a hundred of the best of ours in North America.
The city of London alone is worth all the provinces of
North America.

"When each of us pays, one with another, twenty
shillings per head, we expect that each of you should
pay the sum of one shilling ! Blush, blush, for shame
at your perverse and scandalous behaviour! "

Blush for shame at your own ignorance, Mr. Dean,
who do not know that the colonies have taxes, and
heavy ones, of their own to pay, to support their
own civil and military establishments, and that the
shillings should not be reckoned upon heads, but
upon pounds. There never was a sillier argument.

"Witness our county taxes, militia taxes, poor

1766] Benjamin Franklin 271

taxes, vagrant taxes, bridge taxes, high-road and
turnpike taxes, watch taxes, lamp and scavenger
taxes, &c, &c, &c."

And have we not all these taxes, too, as well as you,
and our provincial or public taxes besides? And over
and above, have we not new roads to make, new
bridges to build, churches and colleges to found, and
a number of other things to do that your fathers
have done for you, and which you inherit from them,
but which we are obliged to pay for out of our present
labor ?

" We require of you to contribute only one shill-
ing to every twenty from each of us. Yes, and
this shilling, too, to be spent in your own country
for the support of your own civil and military
establishments."

How fond he is of this one shilling and twenty.
Who has desired this of you, and who can trust you
to lay it out? If you are thus to provide for our
civil and military establishments, what use will there
afterwards be for our assemblies?

" And yet, small and inconsiderable as this share is,
you will not pay it. No, you will not! and it is at
your peril if we demand it."

No! we will pay nothing on compulsion.

" For how, and in what manner, do you prove your
allegations? Why, truly, by breaking forth into
riots and insurrections, and by committing every
kind of violence that can cause trade to stagnate, and
industry to cease."

The Americans never brought riots as arguments.
It is unjust to charge two or three riots in particular

272 The Works of [1766

places upon all America. Look for arguments in the
petitions and remonstrances of the assemblies, who
detest riots, of which there are ten in England for
one in America.

" Perhaps you meant to insinuate (though it was
prudence in you not to speak out) that the late act
was ill-contrived and ill-timed, because it was made
at a juncture when neither the French were in your
rear to frighten, nor the English fleets and armies
on your front to force, you to a compliance."

It seems a prevailing opinion in England, that fear
of their French neighbours would have kept the colo-
nies in obedience to the Parliament, and that, if the
French power had not been subdued, no opposition
would have been made to the Stamp Act. A very
groundless notion. On the contrary, had the French
power continued, to which the Americans might have
had recourse in the case of oppression from Parlia-
ment, Parliament would not have dared to oppress
them. It was the employment of fifty thousand men
by land, and a fleet on the coast, for five years, to sub-
due the French only. Half the land army was provin-
cial. Suppose the British twenty-five thousand had
acted by themselves, with all the colonies against
them, what time would it have taken to subdue the
whole ?

" Or shall we give you entirely up, unless you will
submit to be governed by the same laws as we are,
and pay something towards maintaining yourselves?"

The impudence of this language to colonies who
have ever maintained themselves, is astonishing!
Except the late attempted colonies of Nova Scotia

1766] Benjamin Franklin 273

and Georgia, no colony ever received maintenance in
any shape from Britain ; and the grants to those colo-
nies were mere jobs for the benefit of ministerial
favorites, English or Scotchmen.

"Whether we are to give you entirely up, and,
after having obliged you to pay your debts, whether
we are to have no further connexion with you as a
dependent state or colony ' ' —

Throughout all America English debts are more
easily recovered than in England, the process being
shorter and less expensive, and land subject to exe-
cution for the payment of debts. Evidence, taken
ex parte in England, to prove a debt, is allowed in
their courts, and during the whole dispute there was
not one single instance of any English merchant's
meeting with the least obstruction in any process or
suit commenced there for that purpose.

"Externally, by being severed from the British
empire, you will be excluded from cutting logwood
in the Bays of Campeachy and Honduras, from fish-
ing on the banks of Newfoundland, on the coast of
Labrador, or in the bay of St. Lawrence, &c."

We have no use for logwood, but to remit it for
your refineries. We joined in conquering the Bay of
St. Lawrence and its dependencies. As to the Sugar
Islands, if you won't allow us to trade with them,
perhaps you will allow them to trade with us; or do
you intend to starve them? Pray keep your boun-
ties, and let us hear no more of them; and your
troops, who never protected us against the savages,
nor are fit for such a service; and the three hundred
thousand pounds, which you seem to think so much

VOL. IV. — j8.

274 The Works of [1766

clear profit to us, when, in fact, they never spend a
penny among us, but they have for it from us a
penny's worth. The manufactures they buy are
bought from you; the provisions we could, as we
always did, sell elsewhere for as much money. Hol-
land, France, and Spain would all be glad of our
custom, and pleased to see the separation.

" And, after all, and in spite of any thing you can
do, we in Britain shall still retain the greatest part of
your European trade, because we shall give a better
price for many of your commodities than you can
have anywhere else, and we shall sell to you several
of our manufactures, especially in the woollen-stuff
and metal way, on cheaper terms."

Oho ! Then you will still trade with us ! But can
that be without our trading with you ? And how can
you buy our oil, if we catch no whales?

" The leaders of your party will then be setting all
their engines to work, to make fools become the
dupes of fools."

Just as they do in England.

"And instead of having troops to defend them,
and those troops paid by Great Britain, they must
defend themselves, and pay themselves."

To defend them! To oppress, insult, and murder
them, as at Boston?

" Not to mention that the expenses of your civil
governments will be necessarily increased; and that
a fleet more or less must belong to each province for
guarding their coasts, ensuring the payment of duties,
and the like."

These evils are all imaginations of the author. The

1766] Benjamin Franklin 275

same were predicted to the Netherlands, but have
never yet happened. But suppose all of them to-
gether, and many more, it would be better to bear
them than submit to parliamentary taxation. We
might still have something we could call our own.
But, under the power claimed by Parliament, we
have not a single sixpence.

The author of this pamphlet, Dean Tucker, has
always been haunted with the fear of the seat of gov-
ernment being soon to be removed to America. He
has, in his Tracts on Commerce, some just notions in
matters of trade and police, mixed with many wild
and chimerical fancies totally impracticable. He
once proposed, as a defence of the colonies, to clear
the woods for the width of a mile all along behind
them, that the Indians might not be able to cross the
cleared part without being seen; forgetting that there
is a night in every twenty-four hours.

CCLXXXVIII

FROM WILLIAM FRANKLIN

It is now generally said to be Debert, & not Ray,
who wrote that scandalous Aspersion of the Agents,
presented in the New York & other Papers.

I really think it not at all unlikely that Mr. Allen
is in some Degree out of his Senses. Upon finding
that Williamson's Essay, published in Bradford's
Supplement, did not take with the People, he cried

276 The Works of [1766

out against it in the House as much as any Body.
And yet at the last Session, when the Assembly were
about appointing their Agents, he made that Piece
the Foundation of a great deal of Abuse he threw out
against you, & spoke from it as if it had been his
Brief.

I have heard nothing further about Mr. Skinner,
but perhaps I may now the Duke of Grafton is again
in the Ministry.

I long to have your copy of the Examination.

Our friends have been a considerable Time greatly
distressed with Mr. Hall,1 but his late conduct to Mr.
Galloway has determined them to throw him off en-
tirely. I have been above a year fully convinced
that he had a greater Attachment to Mr. Allen than
to you ; and he treated me very insolently in a Letter
he wrote to me on a supposition that I was the
Author of Jack Retor. I have ever since dropt all
kind of Intercourse with him. I wrote you a Letter
at the Time, with a full Account of the whole Affair,
but as I thought it would not be long before you re-
turn'd I did not send it, thinking it best not to
trouble you till your Return, when you would have
an opportunity of hearing both sides & enquiring into
the Truth of the accusations against him. I really
had a Friendship for Mr. Hall and have frequently
endeavor 'd to remove the Prejudices our Friends had
conceived against him, but I am now quite satisfied
that he has no Friendship for you, & is as great an
Enemy to your side of the Question as ever Smith
was. All the Difference is that Smith is so openly,

1 Franklin's old partner in the printing business.

1766] Benjamin Franklin 277

& the other covertly — a mere Snake in the Grass.
The Consequence is that your Friends (who would
have set up a Press above a year ago, but that they
did not know but you might chuse to be concerned in
the Printing Business on your Return) have at length
engaged Goddard, who served his Apprenticeship
with Mr. Parker, to get up a Printing Office in
Philada & publish a Newspaper. Mr. Galloway, &
Mr. Thos. Wharton, for his encouragement have
entered into Partnership with him & have agreed to
advance what Money may be necessary. But as
their Motive for doing this is not merely for the Sake
of Profit, but principally to have a Press henceforth
as open & safe to them, as Hall's & Bradford's are to
the other Party, they have put it into their Agree-
ment as I understand, that when you return you
shall have it in your power to be concern 'd, if you
chuse it, in the place of one of them. The young
man has brought several good Founts of Letters with
him, but his Press he was obliged to leave with his
Mother, who carries on the Business at Providence.
They therefore desired me to ask my Mother to lend
them the old Press which Parker used here, & they
would either buy it of you, or pay you what you
thought reasonable for the Hire. My Mother told
me she had no objection to my letting them have it,
but she did not chuse to do it of herself, lest Mr. Hall
might be displeased with her for it. At the same
Time she said she should be glad that the Printer
would take the old House in which it was, as it stood
empty & had not brought in any Rent for a great
while. I accordingly let them have the Press, & they

278 The Works of [1766

have agreed with my Mother to take your old House
in Market Street. There is a new Mahogany Press
there, which they seem Desirous to purchase if you
incline to part with it, but I suppose they will write
to you on the subject. What I have done is for the
best, & I hope it will prove agreeable to you. There
is, indeed, really a Necessity for their having a Press
of their own, while their publick Affairs continue in
their present critical situation, for it is with great
difficulty they can get Hall or Bradford to consent to
print any thing for them, & when they do, some of
the Propry Party are sure to have it communicated
to them before it is published. Hugh Roberts, and
many more of your old Friends, have determined to
encourage the new Printer all in their Power, & to go
about the several Wards to get subscriptions to the
Newspaper. The Members of Assembly will do the
same in their respective Counties, & let him have
all the Publick Work. So that I am in hopes that
by the time you return they will lay the Foundation
of a very valuable Business, worth your while to be
concerned in, if you should think it proper or con-
venient. But I am likewise in hopes that when you
do return you will have something far better worth
your Acceptance than that can possibly be made.
However, as all Things in this Life are uncertain, it
may not perhaps be amiss for you to have it in your
Power to engage in this affair.

I am, Honrd Sir,

Wm. Franklin.

1767] Benjamin Franklin 279

CCLXXXIX

TO LORD KAMES

London, ii April, 1767.

My Dear Lord : — I received your obliging favor of
January the 1 9 th. You have kindly relieved me from
the pain I had long been under. You are goodness
itself. I ought to have answered yours of December
25th, 1765. I never received a letter that contained
sentiments more suitable to my own. It found me
under much agitation of mind on the very important
subject it treated. It fortified me greatly in the judg-
ment I was inclined to form, though contrary to the
general vogue, on the then delicate and critical situa-
tion of affairs between Great Britain and the colonies,
and on that weighty point, their union. You guessed
aright in supposing that I would not be a mute in that
play. I was extremely busy, attending members of
both Houses, informing, explaining, consulting, dis-
puting, in a continual hurry from morning till night,
till the affair was happily ended. During the course
of its being called before the House of Commons, I
spoke my mind pretty freely. Enclosed I send you
the imperfect account that was taken of that examin-
ation.1 You will there see how entirely we agree, ex-
cept in a point of fact, of which you could not but be
misinformed; the papers at that time being full of
mistaken assertions, that the colonies had been the
cause of the war, and had ungratefully refused to bear
any part of the expenses of it.

1 Examination of Dr. Franklin in the British House of Commons.
See vol. iv., p. 171.

280 The Works of [1767

I send it you now, because I apprehend some late
accidents are likely to revive the contest between the
two countries. I fear it will be a mischievous one. It
becomes a matter of great importance, that clear idea,
should be formed on solid principles, both in Britain
and America, of the true political relation between
them, and the mutual duties belonging to that rela-
tion. Till this is done, they will be often jarring. I
know none whose knowledge, sagacity, and impartial-
ity qualify him so thoroughly for such a service as
yours do you. I wish, therefore, you would consider
it. You may thereby be the happy instrument of
great good to the nation, and of preventing much
mischief and bloodshed. I am fully persuaded with
you, that a consolidating union, by a fair and equal
representation of all the parts of this empire in Par-
liament, is the only firm basis on which its political
grandeur and prosperity can be founded. Ireland
once wished it, but now rejects it. The time has
been, when the colonies might have been pleased
with it; they are now indifferent about it; and, if it
is much longer delayed, they too will refuse it. But
the pride of this people cannot bear the thought of it,
and therefore it will be delayed. Every man in Eng-
land seems to consider himself as a piece of a sover-
eign over America; seems to jostle himself into the
throne with the King, and talks of our subjects in the
colonies. The Parliament cannot well and wisely
make laws suited to the colonies, without being
properly and truly informed of their circumstances,
abilities, temper, &c. This it cannot be without
representatives from thence; and yet it is fond of this

1767] Benjamin Franklin 281

power, and averse to the only means of acquiring the
necessary knowledge for exercising it; which is de-
siring to be omnipotent, without being omniscient.1

1 Among Dr. Franklin's manuscripts is a paper, entitled "A Plan of
Union by Admitting Representatives from the American Colonies and
from Ireland into the British Parliament." It is not in his hand-
writing, and it appears to have been communicated to him by some
other person. The following is an outline of the scheme:

America.
For the House of Commons.
Massachusetts Bay, Pennsylvania, Virginia, South Carolina,

Jamaica, each four ....... 20

New York, Maryland, Canada, each three ..... 9

Connecticut, New Jersey, each two ...... 4

New Hampshire, Nova Scotia, Rhode Island, Lower Counties of

Pennsylvania, Georgia, West Florida, East Florida, North

Carolina, each one ........ 8

Barbadoes, Antigua, St. Christopher's, Bahamas, each one . . 4

Bermuda, Montserrat, Nevis, each to choose in rotation for the

whole ........... 1

Grenada ........... 2

Newfoundland and St. John's ....... 1

Dominica, St. Vincent's, and Tobago 1

5°
Ireland.
For the House of Commons.
Each Province, four members . . . . . . .16

Dublin 2

Cork, Kinsale, Waterford, Limerick, Kilkenny, Wicklow, Wex-
ford, one each ......... 7

Dundalk, Drogheda, Younghale ....... 2

Galway, Belfast, Londonderry, one each ....... 3
Lords for the principal Provinces and Islands, as soon as found

convenient, to be created by the royal prerogative . . .10

A proportionate number of Lords, to be elected by the Irish Lords

from among themselves . . . . . . .10

Making in the whole . . . . . . .100

The mode of election in the colonies was to be left to the Assem-
blies. Provision was to be made, also, that neither the colonies nor
Ireland should be taxed for protection and defence separately or apart
from England; and that the revenue arising from the regulations of
colonial trade should be exclusively appropriated to the particular
uses of the colonies, for the purpose of defraying the expenses of civil
government and other colonial charges. — See infra, Letter to John
Ross, Dec. 13th.

282 The Works of [1767

I have mentioned that the contest is likely to be
revived. It is on this occasion. In the same session
with the Stamp Act, an act was passed to regulate
the quartering of soldiers in America; when the bill
was first brought in, it contained a clause, empower-
ing the officers to quarter their soldiers in private
houses ; this we warmly opposed, and got it omitted.
The bill passed, however, with a clause that empty
houses, barns, &c, should be hired for them; and
that the respective provinces, where they were, should
pay the expense and furnish firing, bedding, drink,
and some other articles to the soldiers, gratis. There
is no way for any province to do this but by the As-
sembly's making a law to raise the money. The
Pennsylvania Assembly has made such a law; the
New York Assembly has refused to do it; and now
all the talk here is of sending a force to compel them.

The reasons given by the Assembly to the gov-
ernor for the refusal are, that they understand the act
to mean the furnishing such things to soldiers, only
while on their march through the country, and not to
great bodies of soldiers, to be fixed, as at present, in
the province, the burden in the latter case being
greater than the inhabitants can bear ; that it would
put it in the power of the captain-general to oppress
the province at pleasure, &c. But there is supposed
to be another reason at bottom, which they intimate,
though they do not plainly express it; to wit, that it
is of the nature of an internal tax laid on them by
Parliament, which has no right so to do. Their re-
fusal is here called rebellion, and punishment is
thought of.

1767] Benjamin Franklin 283

Now waiving that point of right, and supposing the
legislatures in America subordinate to the legislature
of Great Britain, one might conceive, I think, a power
in the superior legislature to forbid the inferior legis-
latures making particular laws; but to enjoin it to
make a particular law, contrary to its own judgment,
seems improper ; an Assembly or Parliament not be-
ing an executive officer of government, whose duty it
is, in law-making, to obey orders, but a deliberative
body, who are to consider what comes before them,
its propriety, practicability, or possibility, and to de-
termine accordingly. The very nature of a Parlia-
ment seems to be destroyed by supposing it may be
bounded and compelled, by a law of a superior Parlia-
ment, to make a law contrary to its own judgment.

Indeed, the act of Parliament in question has not,
as in other acts when a duty is enjoined, directed a
penalty on neglect or refusal, and a mode of recover-
ing that penalty. It seems, therefore, to the people
in America, as a mere requisition, which they are at
liberty to comply with or not, as it may suit or not
suit the different circumstances of the different pro-
vinces. Pennsylvania has therefore voluntarily com-
plied. New York, as I said before, has refused. The
ministry that made the act, and all their adherents,
call for vengeance. The present ministry are per-
plexed, and the measures they will finally take on the
occasion are yet unknown . B ut sure I am , that , if force
is used, great mischief will ensue ; the affections of the
people of America to this country will be alienated ;
your commerce will be diminished ; and a total sepa-
ration of interests will be the final consequence.

284 The Works of [1767

It is a common but mistaken notion here, that the
colonies were planted at the expense of Parliament,
and that therefore the Parliament has a right to tax
them, &c. The truth is, they were planted at the ex-
pense of private adventurers, who went over there to
settle, with leave of the King, given by charter. On
receiving this leave, and those charters, the adventur-
ers voluntarily engaged to remain the King's subjects,
though in a foreign country; a country which had
not been conquered by either King or Parliament,
but was possessed by a free people.

When our planters arrived, they purchased the
lands of the natives, without putting King or Parlia-
ment to any expense. Parliament had no hand in
their settlement, was never so much as consulted
about their constitution, and took no kind of notice
of them till many years after they were established.
I except only the two modern colonies, or rather
attempts to make colonies (for they succeed but
poorly, and as yet hardly deserve the name of colo-
nies), I mean Georgia and Nova Scotia, which have
hitherto been little better than Parliamentary jobs.
Thus all the colonies acknowledge the King as their
sovereign; his governors there represent his person;
laws are made by their Assemblies or little parlia-
ments, with the governor's assent, subject still to the
King's pleasure to affirm or annul them. Suits aris-
ing in the colonies, and between colony and colony,
are determined by the King in Council. In this
view, they seem so many little states, subject to the
same prince. The sovereignty of the King is there-
fore easily understood. But nothing is more com-

1767] Benjamin Franklin 285

mon here than to talk of the sovereignty of parlia-
ment, and the sovereignty of this nation over the
colonies ; a kind of sovereignty, the idea of which is
not so clear, nor does it clearly appear on what foun-
dation it is established. On the other hand, it seems
necessary for the common good of the empire, that a
power be lodged somewhere, to regulate its general
commerce; this can be placed nowhere so properly
as in the Parliament of Great Britain; and therefore,
though that power has in some instances been exe-
cuted with great partiality to Britain and prejudice
to the colonies, they have nevertheless always sub-
mitted to it. Custom-houses are established in all
of them, by virtue of laws made here, and the duties
instantly paid, except by a few smugglers, such as,
are here and in all countries; but internal taxes laid
on them by Parliament are still and ever will be
objected to, for the reason that you will see in the
mentioned examination.

Upon the whole, I have lived so great a part of my
life in Britain, and have formed so many friendships
in it, that I love it, and sincerely wish it prosperity ;
and therefore wish to see that union, on which alone
I think it can be secured and established. As to
America, the advantages of such a union to her are
not so apparent. She may suffer at present under
the arbitrary power of this country; she may suffer
for a while in a separation from it ; but these are tem-
porary evils which she will outgrow. Scotland and
Ireland are differently circumstanced. Confined by
the sea, they can scarcely increase in numbers,
wealth, and strength, so as to overbalance England.

286 The Works of [1767

But America, an immense territory, favored by-
nature with all advantages of climate, soils, great
navigable rivers, lakes, &c, must become a great
country, populous and mighty; and will, in less time
than is generally conceived, be able to shake off any
shackles that may be imposed upon her, and perhaps
place them on the imposers. In the meantime every
act of oppression will sour their tempers, lessen
greatly, if not annihilate, the profits of your com-
merce with them, and hasten their final revolt; for
the seeds of liberty are universally found there, and
nothing can eradicate them. And yet there remains
among that people so much respect, veneration, and
affection for Britain, that, if cultivated prudently,
with a kind usage and tenderness for their privileges,
they might be easily governed still for ages, without
force or any considerable expense. But I do not see
here a sufficient quantity of the wisdom that is neces-
sary to produce such a conduct, and I lament the
want of it.1

1 Mr. Tytler, in a note on this letter, after stating the views of Lord
Karnes on the controversy between Great Britain and the colonies,
says: "But, if such were the sentiments of Lord Kames on the ques-
tion of right between Britain and her colonies, it appears that, on
viewing the matter in the light of expediency, he had very early
formed an opinion that, in the relative situation of the two countries,
and looking to the probable chance of increasing animosities, and
matters being driven to extremity, either by the erring policy or
factious views of some of the leaders in both, it would be a wise meas-
ure in the British government to waive the question of strict right,
and to consent freely to a consolidating union with America, by
giving that country a full representation in Parliament. On this sub-
ject he had written to Dr. Franklin as early as the end of the year
1765, at the time when the first intelligence arrived in this country of
the disorders occasioned by the attempts to carry the Stamp Act into
execution; and he had written a second letter to him on the same

1767] Benjamin Franklin 287

I borrowed at Millar's the new edition of your
Principles of Equity, and have read with great pleas-
ure the preliminary discourse on the principles of
morality. I have never before met with any thing
so satisfactory on the subject. While reading it, I
made a few remarks as I went along. They are not
of much importance, but I send you the paper.

I know the lady you mention (Mrs. Montague);
having, when in England before, met her once or
twice at Lord Bath's. I remember I then entertained
the same opinion of her that you express. On the
strength of your recommendation, I purpose soon to
wait on her.

This is unexpectedly grown a long letter. The
visit to Scotland, and the Art of Virtue, we will talk
of hereafter. It is now time to say that I am, with
increasing esteem and affection, my dear friend, yours

ever,

B. Franklin.

subject, in the beginning of 1767. Dr. Franklin's answer to these
letters is extremely interesting, and affords a striking specimen of the
profound sagacity and foresight of that extraordinary man."

Mr. Tytler adds: "This excellent letter, as appears by a subsequent
one, from the same hand, was in all probability intercepted, as it was
not received by Lord Kames in the regular course of communication.
Dr. Franklin, however, having preserved a copy, transmitted it two
years afterwards to his correspondent. The opinions it conveyed
were thus probably well known to the persons ac the head of adminis-
tration. It had been happy, if they had paid them that attention
which the wisdom of the counsels they contained deserved." — Tytler 's
Life of Lord Kames, vol. ii., 2d ed., pp. 99, 112.

288 The Works of [1767

CCXC

TO CADWALLADER EVANS

London, 5 May, 1767.

Dear Doctor: — I received your obliging favor of
May 1 6th. I am always glad to hear from you, when
you have leisure to write, and I expect no apologies
for your not writing. I wish all correspondence was
on the foot of writing and answering when one can,
or when one is disposed to it, without the compul-
sions of ceremony. I am pleased with your scheme
of a Medical Library at the Hospital; and I fancy I
can procure you some donations among my medical
friends here, if you will send me a catalogue of what
books you already have. Enclosed I send you the
only book of the kind in my possession here, having
just received it as a present from the author. It is
not yet published to be sold, and will not be for some
time, till the second part is ready to accompany it.

I thank you for your remarks on the gout. They
may be useful to me, who have already had some
touches of that distemper. As to Lord Chatham, it
is said that his constitution is totally destroyed and
gone, partly through the violence of the disease, and
partly by his own continual quacking with it. There
is at present no access to him. He is said to be not
capable of receiving, any more than of giving, advice.
But still there is such a deference paid to him,
that much business is delayed on his account, that so
when entered on it may have the strength of his con-
currence, or not be liable to his reprehension, if he
should recover his ability and activity. The ministry

1767] Benjamin Franklin 289

we at present have has not been looked upon, either
by itself or others, as settled, which is another cause
of postponing every thing not immediately necessary
to be considered. New men, and perhaps new meas-
ures, are often expected and apprehended, whence
arise continual cabals, factions, and intrigues among
the outs and ins, that keep every thing in confusion.
And when affairs will mend is very uncertain. With
great esteem I am, dear friend, yours affectionately,

B. Franklin.

CCXCI

TO JOSEPH GALLOWAY x

London, 13 June, 1767.

Dear Sir: — In my last of May 20th, I mentioned
my hopes that we should at length get over all ob-
structions to the repeal of the act restraining the
legal tender of paper money; but those hopes are
now greatly lessened.

The ministry had agreed to the repeal, and the
notion that had possessed them, that they might
make a revenue from paper money in appropriating
the interest by Parliament, was pretty well removed
by my assuring them that it was my opinion no
colony would make money on those terms, and that
the benefits arising to the commerce of this country in
America from a plentiful currency would therefore be

1 In the month of October, 1766, Mr. Galloway was chosen Speaker
of the Assembly, in which office he continued till the beginning of the
Revolution.

290 The Works of [1767

lost, and the repeal answer no end, if the Assemblies
were not allowed to appropriate the interest them-
selves ; that the crown might get a great share upon
occasional requisitions, I made no doubt, by volun-
tary appropriations of the Assemblies; but they
would never establish such funds as to make them-
selves unnecessary to government. Those and other
reasons, that were urged, seemed to satisfy them, so
that we began to think all would go on smoothly, and
the merchants prepared their petition, on which the
repeal was to be founded. But in the House, when
the chancellor of the exchequer had gone through his
proposed American revenue, viz. : by duties on glass,
china ware, paper, pasteboard, colors, tea, &c, Gren-
ville stood up and undervalued them all as trifles;
and, says he, "I will tell the honorable gentleman of
a revenue that will produce something valuable in
America: make paper money for the colonies, issue
it upon loan there, take the interest, and apply it as
you think proper." Mr. Townshend, finding the
House listened to this and seemed to like it, stood
up again, and said that was a proposition of his own,
which he had intended to make with the rest, but it
had slipped his memory, and the gentleman, who
must have heard it, now unfairly would take advan-
tage of that slip and make a merit to himself of a
proposition that was another's, and as a proof of it,
assured the House a bill was prepared for the pur-
pose, and would be laid before them.

This startled all our friends; and the merchants
concluded to keep back their petition for a while, till
things appeared a little clearer, lest their friends in

1767] Benjamin Franklin 291

America should blame them, as having furnished
foundation for an act that must have been disagree-
able to the colonies. I found the rest of the ministry
did not like this proceeding of the chancellor's, but
there was no going on with our scheme against his
declaration, and as he daily talked of resigning, there
being no good agreement between him and the rest,
and as we found the general prejudice against the
colonies so strong in the House, that any thing in the
shape of a favor to them all was like to meet with
opposition, whether he was out or in, I proposed to
Mr. Jackson the putting our colony foremost, as we
stood in a pretty good light, and asking the favor for
us alone. This he agreed might be proper in case
the chancellor should go out, and undertook to bring
in a bill for that purpose, provided the Philadelphia
merchants would petition for it; and he wished to
have such a petition ready to present, if an opening
for it should offer. Accordingly I applied to them,
and prepared a draft of a petition for them to sign, a
copy of which I send you enclosed. They seemed
generally for the measure; but, apprehending the
merchants of the other colonies, who had hitherto
gone hand in hand with us in all American affairs,
might take umbrage if we separated from them, it
was thought right to call a meeting of the whole to
consult upon this proposal.

At this meeting I represented to them, as the
ground of this measure, that, the colonies being
generally out of favor at present, any hard clause
relating to paper money in the repealing bill, will be
more easily received in Parliament, if the bill related
The Works of [1767

to all the colonies; that Pennsylvania being in some
degree of favor, might possibly alone obtain a better
act than the whole could do, as it might by govern-
ment be thought as good policy to show favor where
there had been the reverse ; that a good act obtained
by Pennsylvania might another year, when the re-
sentment against the colonies should be abated, be
made use of as a precedent, &c, &c. But after a
good deal of debate it was finally concluded not to
precipitate matters, it being very dangerous by any
kind of petition to furnish the chancellor with a horse
on which he could put what saddle he thought fit.
The other merchants seemed rather averse to the
Pennsylvania merchants proceeding alone, but said
they were certainly at liberty to do as they thought
proper. The conclusion of the Pennsylvanian mer-
chants was to wait awhile, holding the separate peti-
tion ready to sign and present, if a proper opening
should appear this session, but otherwise to reserve it
to the next, when the complexion of ministers and
measures may probably be changed. And, as this
session now draws to a conclusion, I begin to think
nothing will be farther done in it this year.

Mentioning the merchants puts me in mind of some
discourse I heard among them, that was by no means
agreeable. It was said that, in the opposition they
gave the Stamp Act, and their endeavours to obtain
the repeal, they had spent at their meetings, and in
expresses to all parts of the country, and for a vessel
to carry the joyful news to North America, and in
the entertainments given our friends of both Houses,
&c, near fifteen hundred pounds; that for all this,

1767] Benjamin Franklin 293

except from the little colony of Rhode Island, they
had not received as much as a thank ye; that, on the
contrary, the circular-letters they had written with
the best intentions to the merchants of the several
colonies, containing their best and most friendly ad-
vice, were either answered with unkind reflections, or
contemptuously left without answer; and that the
captain of the vessel, whom they sent express with
the news, having met with misfortunes that obliged
him to travel by land through all the colonies from
New Hampshire to Pennsylvania, was everywhere
treated with neglect and contempt, instead of civility
and hospitality; and nowhere more than at Philadel-
phia, where, though he delivered letters to the mer-
chants, that must make him and his errand known to
them, no one took the least notice of him. I own I
was ashamed to hear all this, but hope there is some
mistake in it. I should not have troubled you with
this account, but that I think we stand in truth
greatly obliged to the merchants, who are a very
respectable body, and whose friendship is worth
preserving, as it may greatly help us on future occa-
sions; and therefore I wish some decent acknowledg-
ments or thanks were sent from the Assemblies
of the colonies, since their correspondents have
omitted it.

I have said the less of late in my letters concerning
the petitions, because I hoped this summer to have
an opportunity of communicating every thing viva
voce, and there are particulars that cannnot safely be
trusted to paper. Perhaps I may be more deter-
mined as to returning or staying another winter,

294 The Works of [1767

when I receive my next letters from you and my
other friends in Philadelphia.

We got the chancellor to drop his salt duty. And
the merchants trading to Portugal and Spain, he
says, have made such a clamor about the intention of
suffering ships to go directly with wine, fruit, and oil,
from those countries to America, that he has dropped
that scheme, and we are, it seems, to labor a little
longer under the inconveniences of the restraint.

It is said the bill to suspend the legislatures of
New York and Georgia, till they comply with the act
of Parliament for quartering soldiers, will pass this
session. I fear that imprudencies on both sides may,
step by step, bring on the most mischievous con-
sequences. It is imagined here, that this act will
enforce immediate compliance; and, if the people
should be quiet, content themselves with the laws
they have, and let the matter rest, till in some future
war the King, wanting aids from them, and finding
himself restrained in his legislation by the act as
much as the people, shall think fit by his ministers to
propose the repeal, the Parliament will be greatly
disappointed; and perhaps it may take this turn. I
wish nothing worse may happen.1

1 Besides the offence given to the government by the legislature of
New York, in refusing to provide for quartering soldiers, the mer-
chants of the city of New York petitioned for the repeal of the acts of
Parliament restraining the trade of the colonies. The petition was
presented to Parliament and read, but was then ordered to lie on the
table, and no further notice was taken of it. The conduct of the New
Yorkers, on both these accounts, raised against them a great outcry
in England; and Franklin, according to his custom in such cases,
endeavored to quiet the clamor and vindicate his countrymen, by
an accurate representation of the circumstances in the public papers.

1767] Benjamin Franklin 295

The present ministry will probably continue
through this session. But their disagreement, with
the total inability of Lord Chatham, through sick-
ness, to do any business, must bring on some change
before next winter. I wish it may be for the better,
but fear the contrary.

Please to present my dutiful respects to the As-
sembly, and believe me ever, dear Sir, your and
the Committee's most obedient and faithful humble

servant,

B. Franklin.

Among his manuscripts has been found a fragment of an article, which
seems to relate to this occasion, signed "A Friend to Both Parties."
The closing part only remains, and is as follows.

" or refuses to comply with an act of Parliament, is a rebel, I

am afraid we have many more rebels among us than we are aware of;
among others, they that have not registered the weights of their plate,
and paid the duty, are all rebels; and these, I think, are not a few;
to whom may be added the acting rebels that wear French silks and
cambrics.

"As to the petition mentioned above, I have been informed it is
from a number of private persons, merchants of New York, stating their
opinion, that several restraints in the acts of trade, laid on the com-
merce of the colonies, are not only prejudicial to the colonies, but to
the mother country. They give their reasons for this opinion. These
reasons are to be judged of here. If they are found to be good, and
supported by facts, one would think that, instead of censure, those
merchants might deserve thanks. If otherwise, the petition may be
laid aside. Petitioning is not rebellion. The very nature of a peti-
tion acknowledges the power it petitions to, and the subjection of the
petitioner.

"But, in party views, molehills are often magnified to mountains;
and when the wolf is determined on a quarrel with the lamb, up
stream or down stream is all one. Pretences are easily found or made.
Reason and justice are out of the question."

296 The Works of [I767

CCXCII

TO MISS MARY STEVENSON

Craven Street, 17 June, 1767.

We were greatly disappointed yesterday that we
had not the pleasure promised us of our dear Polly's
company. Your good mother would have me write
a line in answer to your letter. A muse, you must
know, visited me this morning! I see you are sur-
prised, as I was. I never saw one before, and shall
never see another, so I took the opportunity of her
help to put the answer into verse, because I was
some verse in your debt ever since you sent me the
last pair of garters.

This muse appeared to be no housewife. I sup-
pose few of them are. She was dressed (if the
expression is allowable) in an undress, a kind of slat-
ternly negligee, neither neat nor clean, nor well made,
and she has given the same sort of dress to my piece.
On reviewing it I would have reformed the lines,
and made them all of a length, as I am told lines
ought to be; but I find I cannot lengthen the short
ones without stretching them on the rack, and I
think it would be equally cruel to cut off any part of
the long ones. Besides, the superfluity of these makes
up for the deficiency of those, and so, from a principle
of justice, I leave them at full length, that I may
give you, at least in one sense of the word, good meas-
ure. Adieu, my dear good girl, and believe me ever
your affectionate, faithful friend,

B. Franklin.

1767] Benjamin Franklin 297

CCXCIII

TO MRS. DEBORAH FRANKLIN

London, 22 June, 1767.

My Dear Child: — Captain Falconer is arrived,
and came yesterday to see me and bring my letters.
I was extremely glad of yours, because I had none by
the packet. It seems now as if I should stay here
another winter, and therefore I must leave it to your
judgment to act in the affair of our daughter's match
as shall seem best. If you think it a suitable one, I
suppose the sooner it is completed the better. In
that case I would advise that you do not make an
expensive feasting wedding, but conduct every thing
with frugality and economy, which our circumstances
now require to be observed in all our expenses. For
since my partnership with Mr. Hall is expired, a
great source of our income is cut off, and if I should
lose the post-office, which, among the many changes
here is far from being unlikely, we should be reduced
to our rents and interest of money for a subsistence,
which will by no means afford the chargeable house-
keeping and entertainments we have been used to.

For my own part, I live here as frugally as possible
not to be destitute of the comforts of life, making no
dinners for anybody, and contenting myself with a
single dish when I dine at home, and yet such is the
dearness of living here, in every article, that my ex-
penses amaze me. I see, too, by the sums you have
received in my absence, that yours are very great,
and I am very sensible that your situation naturally
brings you a great many visitors, which occasions an

298 The Works of [1767

expense not easily to be avoided, especially when one
has been long in the practice and habit of it. But
when people's incomes are lessened, if they cannot
proportionately lessen their outgoings, they must
come to poverty. If we were young enough to begin
business again, it might be another matter; but I
doubt we are past it, and business not well managed
ruins one faster than no business. In short, with
frugality and prudent care we may subsist decently
on what we have, and leave it entire to our children ;
but without such care we shall not be able to keep it
together ; it will melt away like butter in the sun-
shine, and we may live long enough to feel the
miserable consequences of our indiscretion.

I know very little of the gentleman or his charac-
ter, nor can I at this distance. I hope his expecta-
tions are not great of any fortune to be had with our
daughter before our death. I can only say that if he
proves a good husband to her and a good son to me,
he shall find me as good a father as I can be ; but at
present I suppose you would agree with me that we
cannot do more than fit her out handsomely in
clothes and furniture, not exceeding in the whole five
hundred pounds of value. For the rest, they must
depend, as you and I did, on their own industry and
care, as what remains in our hands will be barely
sufficient for our support, and not enough for them,
when it comes to be divided at our decease.

Sally Franklin is well. Her father, who had not seen
her for a twelvemonth, came lately and took her home
with him for a few weeks to see her friends. He is
very desirous I should take her with me to America.

1767] Benjamin Franklin 299

I suppose the blue room is too blue, the wood being
of the same color with the paper, and so looks too
dark. I would have you finish it as soon as you can,
thus: paint the wainscot a dead white; paper the
walls blue, and tack the gilt border round just above
the surbase and under the cornice. If the paper is
not equally colored when pasted on, let it be brushed
over again with the same color, and let the papier
mache musical figures be tacked to the middle of the
ceiling. When this is done, I think it will look very
well.

I am glad to hear that Sally keeps up and increases
the number of her friends. The best wishes of a fond
father for her happiness always attend her. I am,
my dear Debby, your affectionate husband,

B. Franklin.

CCXCIV

PROTECTIVE DUTIES ON IMPORTS AND HOW THEY

WORK

London, 7 July, 1767.

Suppose a country, X, with three manufactures, as
cloth, silk, iron, supplying three other countries, A,
B, C, but is desirous of increasing the vent, and rais-
ing the price of cloth in favor of her own clothiers.

In order to this, she forbids the importation of
foreign cloth from A.

A, in return, forbids silks from X.

Then the silk- workers complain of a decay of trade.

And X, to content them, forbids silks from B.

300 The Works of [1767

B, in return, forbids iron ware from X.
Then the iron-workers complain of decay.
And X forbids the importation of iron from C.

C, in return, forbids cloth from X.
What is got by all these prohibitions?

Answer. — All four find their common stock of the
enjoyments and conveniences of life diminished.

B. F.

CCXCV

TO SAMUEL FRANKLIN, BOSTON "

London, 17 July, 1767.

Dear Cousin: — I should sooner have answered
your kind letter of last year, but postponed it from
time to time, having mislaid the print I intended to
send you, which I have now found and send herewith.
I am glad to hear of the welfare of yourself and your
family, which I hope will long continue. My love to
them all.

It gives me great pleasure whenever I find that my
endeavours to serve America are acceptable to my
friends there. Your kind notices of them are very
obliging.

I find here but two of our relations remaining, that
bear the name of Franklin, viz. : Thomas Franklin of
Lutterworth in Leicestershire, a dyer ; and his daugh-
ter, Sally Franklin, about fourteen years of age, who
has been with me in London about a year, and sends
her duty to you. Thomas Franklin is the grandson

1 Samuel Franklin was the grandson of Benjamin Franklin, who was
Dr. Franklin's uncle, and after whom he was named.

1767] Benjamin Franklin 3QI

of John Franklin, your grandfather's brother. There

are, besides, still living, Eleanor Morris, an old

maiden lady, daughter of your grandfather's sister

Hannah ; and also Hannah Walker, granddaughter of

his brother John. Mrs. Walker has three sons. She

lives at Westbury, in Buckinghamshire, and Mrs.

Morris with her. And these are the whole. It is

thought best by my friends that I should continue

here another winter. My best wishes attend you,

being your affectionate kinsman,

B. Franklin.

CCXCVI

TO MRS. DEBORAH FRANKLIN

London, 5 August, 1767.

My Dear Child : — I have now before me all your
letters, and shall answer them article by article.

Captain Ourry dined here a few days since, and
thanks you for remembering him, desiring his respects
to you and Sally. Mr. Strahan and family, the same.
I received the bill sent by Mr. Potts, and suppose it
will be duly paid. You will return him the overplus.
I wish I could take my passage this time with Cap-
tain Falconer. I was on board the other day with
Mr.1 and Mrs. West, Mrs. Stevenson, and Mrs. Hop-
kinson, to drink tea. It is a fine ship, and I think it
not unlikely that I may go with him next time, as he
is a very kind, good friend, whom I much respect.

I am very glad you go sometimes to Burlington.

1 Mr. Benjamin West, the painter.

302 The Works of [1767

The harmony you mention in our family and among
our children gives me great pleasure. I am sorry to
hear of the death of our good old friend Debby Norris.
She was a worthy good woman and will be missed.
If I can in any shape be of service to Mr. Francis,
you may depend I shall do it, being much concerned
for his misfortune. I am told the affair is like to
turn out better for him than was expected. Sally
Franklin is now in the country with her father. She
is an only child, and a very good girl.

I received the watch chain, which you say you send
to be put to rights. I do not see what it wants.
Mrs. Stevenson says it is too old-fashioned for Sally,
and advised sending the watch also to be changed
away for a new watch and chain.

In your last letters you say nothing concerning Mr.
Bache. The misfortune that has lately happened to
his affairs, though it may not lessen his character as
an honest or prudent man, will probably induce him
to forbear entering hastily into a state that must re-
quire a great addition to his expense, when he will be
less able to supply it. If you think that, in the mean-
time, it will be some amusement to Sally to visit her
friends here, and return with me, I should have no
objection to her coming over with Captain Falconer,
provided Mrs. Falconer comes at the same time, as is
talked of. I think too it might be some improvement
to her.1 I am at present meditating a journey some-

1 Sally did not go to England, as is here proposed, but was married to
Mr. Richard Bache on the 29th of October following. She was then
twenty-three years old, having been born September 11, 1744. She
was Dr. Franklin's only daughter. Among her descendants have been
several representative men and women.

1767] Benjamin Franklin 303

where, perhaps to Bath or Bristol, as I begin to find
a little giddiness in my head, a token that I want the
exercise I have yearly been accustomed to. I long to
see you, and be with you, being as ever, my dear
Debby, your affectionate husband, B. Franklin.

CCXCVII

TO GEORGE CROGAN

London, 5 August, 1767.

Sir: — I return you many thanks for the box of
elephants' tusks and grinders. They are extremely
curious on many accounts; no living elephants hav-
ing been seen in any part of America by any of the
Europeans settled there, or remembered in any tradi-
tion of the Indians. It is also puzzling to conceive
what should have brought so many of them to die on
the same spot; and that no such remains should be
found in any other part of the continent, except in
that very distant country, Peru, from whence some
grinders of the same kind, formerly brought, are now
in the museum of the Royal Society. The tusks
agree with those of the African and Asiatic elephant
in being nearly of the same form and texture, and
some of them, notwithstanding the length of time
they must have lain, being still good ivory. But the
grinders differ, being full of knobs, like the grinders of
a carnivorous animal; when those of the elephant,
who eats only vegetables, are almost smooth. But
then we know of no other animal with tusks like an
elephant, to whom such grinders might belong.

304 The Works of [1767

It is remarkable, that elephants now inhabit nat-
urally only hot countries where there is no winter,
and yet these remains are found in a winter country ;
and it is no uncommon thing to find elephants' tusks
in Siberia, in great quantities, when their rivers over-
flow, and wash away the earth, though Siberia is still
more a wintry country than that on the Ohio ; which
looks as if the earth had anciently been in another
position, and the climates differently placed from
what they are at present.

With great regard, I am, Sir,

Your most obedient humble servant,

B. Franklin.1

CCXCVIII

TO JOSEPH GALLOWAY

London, 8 August, 1767.

Dear Sir: — I have before me your favors of April
23d, May 21st and 26th. The confusion among our
great men still continues as much as ever, and a
melancholy thing it is to consider that, instead of
employing the present leisure of peace in such meas-
ures as might extend our commerce, pay off our debts,
secure allies, and increase the strength and ability of
the nation to support a future war, the whole seems
to be wasted in party contentions about places of
power and profit, in court intrigues and cabals, and
in abusing one another.

1 The bones referred to in this letter were presented by Dr. Franklin
to the Royal Society. See the Philosophical Transactions (vol. lvii.,
p. 464).

1767] Benjamin Franklin 305

There has been lately an attempt to make a kind
of coalition of parties in a new ministry; but it fell
through, and the present set is like to continue for
some time longer, which I am rather pleased with, as
some of those who were proposed to be introduced
are professed adversaries to America, which is now
made one of the distinctions of party here ; those who
have in the last two sessions shown a disposition to
favor us, being called, by way of reproach, Ameri-
cans, while the others, adherents to Grenville and
Bedford, value themselves on being true to the inter-
ests of Britain, and zealous for maintaining its dignity
and sovereignty over the colonies.

This distinction will, it is apprehended, be carried
much higher in the next session, for the political pur-
pose of influencing the ensuing election. It is al-
ready given out that the compliance of New York in
providing for the quarters, without taking notice of
its being done in obedience to the act of Parliament,
is evasive and unsatisfactory ; that it is high time to
put the right and power of this country to tax the
colonies out of dispute, by an act of taxation effect-
ually carried into execution, and that all the colonies
should be obliged explicitly to acknowledge that
right. Every step is taking to render the taxing of
America a popular measure here by continually in-
sisting on the topics of our wealth and flourishing
circumstances, while this country is loaded with debt,
great part of it incurred on our account, the distress
of the poor here by the multitude and weight of
taxes, &c, &c; and though the traders and manu-
facturers may possibly be kept in our interest, the

306 The Works of [1767

idea of an American tax is very pleasing to the landed
men, who therefore readily receive and propagate
these sentiments wherever they have influence.

If such a bill should be brought in, it is hard to say
what would be the event of it, or what would be the
effects. Those who oppose it, though they should be
strong enough to throw it out, would be stigmatized
as Americans, betrayers of Old England, &c, and
perhaps, our friends by this means being excluded, a
majority of our adversaries may get in, and then the
act infallibly passes the following session. To avoid
the danger of such exclusion, perhaps little opposi-
tion will be given, and then it passes immediately. I
know not what to advise on this occasion, but that
we should all do our endeavours on both sides of the
water to lessen the present unpopularity of the
American cause, conciliate the affections of the peo-
ple here towards us, increase by all possible means
the number of our friends, and be careful not to
weaken their hands and strengthen those of our ene-
mies by rash proceedings on our side, the mischiefs
of which are inconceivable. Some of our friends
have thought that a publication of my Examination
here might answer some of the above purposes by re-
moving prejudices, refuting falsehoods, and demon-
strating our merits with regard to this country. It
is accordingly printed, and has a great run. I have
another piece in hand, which I intend to put out
about the time of the meeting of Parliament, if those
I consult with shall judge that it may be of service.1

1 Probably the piece entitled Causes of the American Discontent
before 1768. See infra.

1767] Benjamin Franklin 3°7

The next session of Parliament will probably be a
short one, on account of the following election, and
I am now advised by some of our great friends here
to see that out, not returning to America till the
spring. My presence indeed is necessary there to
settle some private affairs. Unforeseen and unavoid-
able difficulties have hitherto obstructed our proceed-
ings in the main intent of my coming over, and
perhaps (though I think my being here has not been
altogether unserviceable) our friends in the Assembly
may begin to be discouraged and tired of the expense.
If that should be the case I would not have you pro-
pose to continue me as agent at the meeting of the
new Assembly. My endeavours to serve the pro-
vince, in what I may while I remain here, shall not
be lessened by that omission.

I am glad you have made a trial of paper money,
not a legal tender. The quantity being small may
perhaps be kept in full credit notwithstanding; and
if that can be avoided, I am not for applying here
again very soon for a repeal of the restraining act.
I am afraid an ill use will be made of it. The plan of
our adversaries is to render Assemblies in America
useless, and to have a revenue, independent of their
grants, for all the purposes of their defence and sup-
porting governments among them, it is our interest
to prevent this. And, that they may not lay hold of
our necessities for paper money, to draw a revenue
from that article whenever they grant us the liberty
we want, of making it a legal tender, I wish some
other method may be fallen upon of supporting its
credit. What think you of getting all the merchants,

308 The Works of [1767

traders, and principal people of all sorts, to join in
petitions to the Assembly for a moderate emission,
the petition being accompanied with a mutual en-
gagement to take it in all dealings at the rates fixed
by law? Such an engagement had a great effect in
fixing the value and rates of our gold and silver. Or,
perhaps, a bank might be established that would
answer all purposes. Indeed I think with you, that
those merchants here, who have made difficulties on
the subject of the legal tender, have not understood
their own interest. For there can be no doubt that,
should a scarcity of money continue among us, we
shall take off less of their merchandise, and attend
more to manufacturing, and raising the necessities
and superfluities of life among ourselves, which we
now receive from them. And perhaps this conse-
quence would attend our making no paper money at
all of any sort, that, being thus by want of cash driven
to industry and frugality, we should gradually be-
come more rich without their trade than we can
possibly be with it, and, by keeping in the country
the real cash that comes into it, have in time a quan-
tity sufficient for all our occasions. But I suppose
our people will scarce have patience to wait for this.

I have received the printed votes, but not the laws.
I hear nothing yet of any objection made by the
Proprietaries to any of them at the Board of Trade.

Please to present my duty to the Assembly, with
thanks for their care of me, and assure them of my
most faithful services. With sincerest esteem and re-
spect, I am, my dear friend, yours most affectionately,

B. Franklin.

1767] Benjamin Franklin 309

CCXCIX

TO WILLIAM FRANKLIN, GOVERNOR OF NEW JERSEY

London, 28 August, 1767.

Dear Son: — I have no letters of yours since my
last, in which I answered all preceding ones.

Last week I dined at Lord Shelburne's, and had
a long conversation with him and Mr. Conway (there
being no other company) on the subject of reducing
American expense. They have it in contemplation
to return the management of Indian affairs into the
hands of the several provinces on which the nations
border, that the colonies may bear the charge of
treaties, &c, which they think will then be managed
more frugally, the treasury being tired with the im-
mense drafts of the superintendents. I took the op-
portunity of urging it as one means of saving ex-
pense in supporting the outposts, that a settlement
should be made in the Illinois country; expatiated
on the various advantages, viz. : furnishing provisions
cheaper to the garrisons, securing the country, re-
taining the trade, raising a strength there, which
on occasion of a future war might easily be poured
down the Mississippi upon the lower country, and
into the Bay of Mexico, to be used against Cuba or
Mexico itself. I mentioned your plan, its being
approved by Sir Willian Johnson, the readiness and
ability of the gentlemen concerned to carry the settle-
ment into execution, with very little expense to the
crown, &c. The secretaries appeared finally to be
fully convinced, and there remained no obstacle but
the Board of Trade, which was to be brought over

310 The Works of l>767

privately before the matter should be referred to
them officially. In case of laying aside the superin-
tendents, a provision was thought of for Sir William
Johnson.1

We had a good deal of farther discourse on Ameri-
can affairs, particularly on paper money. Lord Shel-
burne declared himself fully convinced of the utility
of taking off the restraint, by my answer to the Re-
port of the Board of Trade. General Conway had
not seen it, and desired me to send it to him, which
I did next morning. They gave me expectation of a
repeal next session, Lord Clair being come over; but
they said there was some difficulty with others at the
Board, who had signed that Report; for there was
a good deal in what Soame Jenyns had laughingly
said, when asked to concur in some measure : / have
no kind of objection to it, provided we have heretofore
signed nothing to the contrary.

In this conversation I did not forget our main
Pennsylvania business, and I think made some far-
ther progress, though but little. The two secretaries
seemed intent upon preparing business for next Par-
liament, which makes me think, that the late projects
of changes are now quite over, and that they expect
to continue in place. But whether they will do much
or little, I cannot say.

Du Guerchy, the French ambassador, is gone home,
and Monsieur Durand is left minister plenipotentiary.
He is extremely curious to inform himself in the af-

1 The subject here introduced and frequently mentioned in letters
to his son, relates to an application by a company to the crown for the
grant of a tract of land, called Walpole's Grant, west of the Alleghanies,
with the design of establishing a colony there. See infra.

1767] Benjamin Franklin 311

fairs of America; pretends to have a great esteem for
me, on account of the abilities shown in my examina-
tion; has desired to have all my political writings,
invited me to dine with him, was very inquisitive,
treated me with great civility, makes me visits, &c.
I fancy that intriguing nation would like very well to
meddle on occasion, and blow up the coals between
Britain and her colonies; but I hope we shall give
them no opportunity.

I write this in a great hurry, being setting out in
an hour on another journey with my steady, good
friend, Sir John Pringle. We propose to visit Paris.
Durand has given me letters of recommendation to
the Lord knows who. I am told I shall meet with
great respect there ; but winds change, and perhaps
it will be full as well if I do not. We shall be gone
six weeks. I have a little private commission to
transact, of which more another time.

Communicate nothing of this letter but privately
to our friend Galloway. I am your affectionate
father,

B. Franklin.

CCC

TO MISS STEVENSON

Paris, 14 September, 1767.

Dear Polly: — I am always pleased with a letter
from you, and I natter myself you may be sometimes
pleased in receiving one from me, though it should
be of little importance, such as this, which is to

3i2 The Works of [1767

consist of a few occasional remarks made here, and
in my journey hither.

Soon after I left you in that agreeable society at
Bromley, I took the resolution of making a trip with
Sir John Pringle into France. We set out on the
28th past. All the way to Dover we were furnished
with post-chaises, hung so as to lean forward, the top
coming down over one's eyes, like a hood, as if to
prevent one's seeing the country, which being one of
my great pleasures, I was engaged in perpetual dis-
putes with the innkeepers, ostlers, and postilions,
about getting the straps taken up a hole or two
before, and let down as much behind, they insisting
that the chaise leaning forward was an ease to the
horses, and that the contrary would kill them. I
suppose the chaise leaning forward looks to them
like a willingness to go forward, and that its hanging
back shows reluctance. They added other reasons,
that were no reasons at all, and made me, as upon a
hundred other occasions, almost wish that mankind
had never been endowed with a reasoning faculty,
since they know so little how to make use of it, and
so often mislead themselves by it, and that they had
been furnished with a good sensible instinct instead
of it.1

At Dover the next morning we embarked for Calais
with a number of passengers who had never before

1 Franklin visited Paris twice before he went there in an official
character, once in 1767 and again in 1769. He wrote but little about
either trip, save what we find in this letter. He was no exception to
the rule that a man is never so ready to pronounce definite judgments
upon a country, or so confident of their soundness, as during the first
week after his arrival in it.

1767] Benjamin Franklin 313

been at sea. They would previously make a hearty
breakfast, because if the wind should fail we might
not get over till supper time. Doubtless they
thought that when they had paid for their breakfast
they had a right to it, and that when they had swal-
lowed it they were sure of it. But they had scarce
been out half an hour before the sea laid claim to it,
and they were obliged to deliver it up. So that it
seems there are uncertainties, even beyond those be-
tween the cup and the lip. If ever you go to sea,
take my advice, and live sparingly a day or two be-
forehand. The sickness, if any, will be lighter and
sooner over. We got to Calais that evening.

Various impositions we suffered from boatmen,
porters, and the like on both sides of the water. I
know not which are most rapacious, the English or
French; but the latter have, with their knavery,
most politeness.

The roads we found equally good with ours in
England, in some places paved with smooth stones,
like our new streets, for many miles together, and
rows of trees on each side, and yet there are no turn-
pikes. But then the poor peasants complained to us
grievously that they were obliged to work upon the
roads full two months in the year without being paid
for their labor. Whether this is truth, or whether,
like Englishmen, they grumble, cause or no cause, I
have not yet been able fully to inform myself.

The women we saw at Calais, on the road, at Bou-
logne, and in the inns and villages, were generally of
dark complexions; but arriving at Abbeville we
found a sudden change, a multitude of both women

3'4

The Works of 1*1*1

and men in that place appearing remarkably fair.
Whether this is owing to a small colony of spinners,
wool-combers, and weavers, brought hither from
Holland with the woollen manufactory about sixty
years ago, or to their being less exposed to the sun
than in other places, their business keeping them
much within doors, I know not. Perhaps, as in some
other cases, different causes may club in producing
the effect ; but the effect itself is certain. Never was
I in a place of greater industry, wheels and looms
going in every house.

As soon as we left Abbeville the swarthiness re-
turned. I speak generally; for here are some fair
women at Paris, who, I think, are not whitened by
art. As to rouge, they don't pretend to imitate
nature in laying it on. There is no gradual diminu-
tion of the color from the full bloom in the middle of
the cheek to the faint tint near the sides; nor does it
show itself differently in different faces. I have not
had the honor of being at any lady's toilette to see
how it is laid on; but I fancy I can tell you how it is
or may be done. Cut a hole of three inches diameter
in a piece of paper; place it on the side of your face
in such a manner as that the top of the hole may be
just under the eye; then, with a brush dipped in the
color, paint face and paper together; so when the
paper is taken off there will remain a round patch of
red exactly the form of the hole. This is the mode,
from the actresses on the stage upwards through all
ranks of ladies to the princesses of the blood ; but it
stops there, the Queen not using it, having in the
serenity, complacence, and benignity that shine so

1767] Benjamin Franklin 315

eminently in, or rather through, her countenance,
sufficient beauty, though now an old woman, to do
extremely well without it.

You see, I speak of the Queen as if I had seen her;
and so I have, for you must know I have been at
court. We went to Versailles last Sunday, and had
the honor of being presented to the King. He spoke
to both of us very graciously and very cheerfully, is a
handsome man, has a very lively look, and appears
younger than he is. In the evening we were at the
Grand Convert, where the family sup in public. The
table was half a hollow square, the service gold.
When either made a sign for drink the word was
given by one of the waiters: A boire pour le Rot, or,
A boire pour la Reine. Then two persons came from
within, the one with wine and the other with water
in carafes. Each drank a little glass of what he
brought, and then put both the carafes with a glass
on a salver, and then presented it. Their distance
from each other was such as that other chairs might
have been placed between any two of them. An
officer of the court brought us up through the crowd
of spectators, and placed Sir John so as to stand be-
tween the Queen and Madame Victoire. The King
talked a good deal to Sir John, asking many questions
about our royal family, and did me, too, the honor of
taking some notice of me ; that is saying enough ; for
I would not have you think me so much pleased with
this King and Queen as to have a whit less regard
than I used to have for ours. No Frenchman shall
go beyond me in thinking my own King and Queen
the very best in the world, and the most amiable.

316 The Works of [1767

Versailles has had infinite sums laid out in building
it and supplying it with water. Some say the ex-
penses exceeded eighty millions sterling. The range
of buildings is immense; the garden-front most mag-
nificent, all of hewn stone; the number of statues,
figures, urns, &c. , in marble and bronze of exquisite
workmanship, is beyond conception. But the water-
works are out of repair, and so is great part of the
front next the town, looking with its shabby, half-
brick walls, and broken windows, not much better
than the houses in Durham Yard. There is, in short,
both at Versailles and Paris, a prodigious mixture of
magnificence and negligence, with every kind of ele-
gance except that of cleanliness, and what we call
tidiness. Though I must do Paris the justice to say,
that in two points of cleanliness they exceed us.
The water they drink, though from the river, they
render as pure as that of the best spring, by filtering
it through cisterns filled with sand; and the streets
with constant sweeping are fit to walk in, though
there is no paved footpath. Accordingly, many well-
dressed people are constantly seen walking in them.
The crowd of coaches and chairs for this reason is
not so great. Men, as well as women, carry umbrel-
las in their hands, which they extend in case of rain
or too much sun ; and, a man with an umbrella not
taking up more than three foot square, or nine square
feet of the street, when, if in a coach, he would take
up two hundred and forty square feet, you can easily
conceive that, though the streets here are narrow,
they may be much less encumbered. They are ex-
tremely well paved, and the stones, being generally

1767] Benjamin Franklin 3J7

cubes, when worn on one side, may be turned and
become new.

The civilities we everywhere receive give us the
strongest impressions of the French politeness. It
seems to be a point settled here universally, that
strangers are to be treated with respect ; and one has
just the same deference shown one here by being a
stranger, as in England by being a lady. The cus-
tom-house officers at Port St. Denis, as we entered
Paris, were about to seize two dozen of excellent
Bordeaux wine given us at Boulogne, and which we
brought with us ; but as soon as they found we were
strangers, it was immediately remitted on that ac-
count. At the Church of Notre Dame, where we
went to see a magnificent illumination, with figures,
&c, for the deceased Dauphiness, we found an im-
mense crowd, who were kept out by guards ; but the
officer being told that we were strangers from
England, he immediately admitted us, accompanied
and showed us every thing. Why don't we practise
this urbanity to Frenchmen ? Why should they be
allowed to outdo us in any thing?

Here is an exhibition of painting, like ours in Lon-
don, to which multitudes flock daily. I am not con-
noisseur enough to judge which has most merit.
Every night, Sundays not excepted, here are plays or
operas; and, though the weather has been hot, and
the houses full, one is not incommoded by the heat
so much as with us in winter. They must have some
way of changing the air, that we are not acquainted
with. I shall inquire into it.

Travelling is one way of lengthening life, at least

318 The Works of [1767

in appearance. It is but about a fortnight since we
left London, but the variety of scenes we have gone
through makes it seem equal to six months living in
one place. Perhaps I have suffered a greater change,
too, in my own person, than I could have done in six
years at home. I had not been here six days, before
my tailor and perruquier had transformed me into a
Frenchman. Only think what a figure I make in a
little bag-wig and with naked ears! They told me
I was become twenty years younger, and looked very
gallant.

This letter shall cost you a shilling, and you may
consider it cheap, when you reflect that it has cost
me at least fifty guineas to get into the situation that
enables me to write it. Besides, I might, if I had
stayed at home, have won perhaps two shillings of
you at cribbage. By the way, now I mention cards,
let me tell you that quadrille is now out of fashion
here, and English whist all the mode at Paris and
the court.

And pray look upon it as no small matter, that,
surrounded as I am by the glories of the world, and
amusements of all sorts, I remember you, and Dolly,
and all the dear good folks at Bromley. It is true, I
cannot help it, but must and ever shall remember you
all with pleasure.

Need I add that I am particularly, my dear good
friend, yours most affectionately,

B. Franklin.

1767] Benjamin Franklin 3*9

CCCI

OF LIGHTNING AND THE METHODS (NOW USED IN
AMERICA) OF SECURING BUILDINGS AND PERSONS
FROM ITS MISCHIEVOUS EFFECTS.

Paris, September, 1767.

Experiments made in electricity first gave philoso-
phers a suspicion, that the matter of lightning was
the same with the electric matter. Experiments
afterwards made on lightning obtained from the
clouds by pointed rods, received into bottles, and
subjected to every trial, have since proved this sus-
picion to be perfectly well founded; and that what-
ever properties we find in electricity, are also the
properties of lightning.

This matter of lightning, or of electricity, is an ex-
treme subtile fluid, penetrating other bodies, and sub-
sisting in them, equally diffused.

When, by any operation of art or nature, there hap-
pens to be a greater proportion of this fluid in one body
than in another, the body which has most will com-
municate to that which has least, till the proportion
becomes equal ; provided the distance between them
be not too great ; or, if it is too great, till there be
proper conductors to convey it from one to the other.

If the communication be through the air without
any conductor, a bright light is seen between the
bodies, and a sound is heard. In our small experi-
ments, we call this light and sound the electric spark
and snap; but, in the great operations of nature, the
light is what we call lightning, and the sound (pro-
duced at the same time, though generally arriving

320 The Works of [1767

later at our ears than the light does to our eyes) is,
with its echoes, called thunder.

If the communication of this fluid is by a conduc-
tor, it may be without either light or sound, the sub-
tile fluid passing in the substance of the conductor.

If the conductor be good and of sufficient bigness,
the fluid passes through it without hurting it. If
otherwise, it is damaged or destroyed.

All metals and water are good conductors. Other
bodies may become conductors by having some quan-
tity of water in them, as wood, and other materials
used in building; but, not having much water in
them, they are not good conductors, and therefore
are often damaged in the operation.

Glass, wax, silk, wool, hair, feathers, and even
wood, perfectly dry, are non-conductors ; that is, they
resist instead of facilitating the passage of this
subtile fluid.

When this fluid has an opportunity of passing
through two conductors, one good and sufficient, as
of metal, the other not so good, it passes in the best,
and will follow it in any direction.

The distance at which a body charged with this
fluid will discharge itself suddenly, striking through
the air into another body that is not charged, or not
so highly charged, is different according to the quan-
tity of the fluid, the dimensions and form of the
bodies themselves, and the state of the air between
them. This distance, whatever happens to be be-
tween any two bodies, is called their striking distance,
as, till they come within that distance of each other,
no stroke will be made.

1767] Benjamin Franklin 321

The clouds have often more of this fluid in pro-
portion than the earth ; in which case, as soon as they
come near enough (that is, within the striking dis-
tance) or meet with a conductor, the fluid quits them
and strikes into the earth. A cloud fully charged
with this fluid, if so high as to be beyond the striking
distance from the earth, passes quietly without mak-
ing noise or giving light, unless it meets with other
clouds that have less.

Tall trees, and lofty buildings, as the towers and
spires of churches, become sometimes conductors be-
tween the clouds and the earth ; but, not being good
ones, that is, not conveying the fluid freely, they are
often damaged.

Buildings that have their roofs covered with lead,
or other metal, and spouts of metal continued from
the roof into the ground to carry off the water, are
never hurt by lightning, as, whenever it falls on such
a building, it passes in the metals and not in the
walls.

When other buildings happen to be within the
striking distance from such clouds, the fluid passes in
the walls, whether of wood, brick, or stone, quitting
the walls only when it can find better conductors near
them, as metal rods, bolts, and hinges of windows or
doors, gilding on wainscot, or frames of pictures, the
silvering on the backs of looking-glasses, the wires
for bells, and the bodies of animals, as containing
watery fluids. And in passing through the house it
follows the direction of these conductors, taking as
many in its way as can assist it in its passage, whether
in a straight or crooked line, leaping from one to the

VOL. IV. — 21.

322 The Works of [1767

other, if not far distant from each other, only rend-
ing the wall in the spaces where these partial good
conductors are too distant from each other.

An iron rod being placed on the outside of a build-
ing, from the highest part continued down into the
moist earth, in any direction, straight or crooked, fol-
lowing the form of the roof or other parts of the
building, will receive the lightning at its upper end,
attracting it so as to prevent its striking any other
part; and, affording it a good conveyance into the
earth, will prevent its damaging any part of the
building.

A small quantity of metal is found able to conduct
a great quantity of this fluid. A wire no bigger than
a goose-quill has been known to conduct (with safety
to the building as far as the wire was continued) a
quantity of lightning that did prodigious damage
both above and below it; and probably larger rods
are not necessary, though it is common in America
to make them of half an inch, some of three quarters,
or an inch diameter.

The rod may be fastened to the wall, chimney, &c,
with staples of iron. The lightning will not leave the
rod (a good conductor) to pass into the wall (a bad
conductor) through those staples. It would rather,
if any were in the wall, pass out of it into the rod to
get more readily by that conductor into the earth.

If the building be very large and extensive, two or
more rods may be placed at different parts for greater
security.

Small ragged parts of clouds, suspended in the air
between the great body of clouds and the earth (like

1767] Benjamin Franklin 323

leaf gold in electrical experiments) often serve as par-
tial conductors for the lightning, which proceeds from
one of them to another, and by their help comes
within the striking distance to the earth or a building.
It therefore strikes through those conductors a build-
ing that would otherwise be out of the striking
distance.

Long, sharp points communicating with the earth,
and presented to such parts of clouds, drawing silently
from them the fluid they are charged with, they are
then attracted to the cloud, and may leave the dis-
tance so great as to be beyond the reach of striking.

It is therefore that we elevate the upper end of the
rod six or eight feet above the highest part of the
building, tapering it gradually to a fine sharp point,
which is gilt to prevent its rusting.

Thus the pointed rod either prevents a stroke from
the cloud, or, if a stroke is made, conducts it to the
earth with safety to the building.

The lower end of the rod should enter the earth so
deep as to come at the moist part, perhaps two or
three feet, and if bent when under the surface so as to
go in a horizontal line six or eight feet from the wall,
and then bent again downwards three or four feet,
it will prevent damage to any of the stones of the
foundation.

A person apprehensive of danger from lightning,
happening during the time of thunder to be in a house
not so secured, will do well to avoid sitting near the
chimney, near a looking-glass, or any gilt pictures, or
wainscot. The safest place is in the middle of the
room (so it be not under a metal lustre suspended by

324 The Works of [1767

a chain) , sitting in one chair and laying the feet up in
another. It is still safer to bring two or three mat-
tresses or beds into the middle of the room, and, fold-
ing them up double, place the chair upon them ; for
they not being so good conductors as the walls, the
lightning will not choose an interrupted course
through the air of the room and the bedding, when it
can go through a continued better conductor, the
walls. But where it can be had, a hammock or
swinging bed, suspended by silk cords equally dis-
tant from the walls on every side, and from the
ceiling and floor above and below, affords the safest
situation a person can have in any room whatever,
and what indeed may be deemed quite free from

danger of any stroke by lightning.

B. Franklin.

CCCII

ON SMUGGLING AND ITS VARIOUS SPECIES l

Sir: — There are many people that would be
thought, and even think themselves, honest men, who
fail nevertheless in particular points of honesty ; de-
viating from that character some times by the pre-
valence of mode or custom, and sometimes through
mere inattention ; so that their honesty is partial only,
and not general or universal. Thus one, who would
scorn to overreach you in a bargain, shall make no
scruple of tricking you a little now and then at cards ;
another, that plays with the utmost fairness, shall

1 This letter was found in the London Chronicle, for November 24th,
1767, and is addressed to the printer of that newspaper.

I767] Benjamin Franklin 325

with great freedom cheat you in the sale of a horse.
But there is no kind of dishonesty, into which other-
wise good people more easily and frequently fall,
than that of defrauding government of its revenues
by smuggling when they have an opportunity, or
encouraging smugglers by buying their goods.

I fell into these reflections the other day, on hear-
ing two gentlemen of reputation discoursing about a
small estate, which one of them was inclined to sell
and the other to buy; when the seller, in recomend-
ing the place, remarked, that its situation was very
advantageous on this account, that, being on the sea-
coast in a smuggling country, one had frequent op-
portunities of buying many of the expensive articles
used in a family (such as tea, coffee, chocolate,
brandy, wines, cambrics, Brussels laces, French silks,
and all kinds of India goods), twenty, thirty, and in
some articles fifty per cent, cheaper than they could
be had in the more interior parts, of traders that paid
duty. The other honest gentleman allowed this to be
an advantage, but insisted that the seller, in the ad-
vanced price he demanded on that account, rated
the advantage much above its value. And neither
of them seemed to think dealing with smugglers a
practice that an honest man (provided he got his
goods cheap) had the least reason to be ashamed

of.

At a time when the load of our public debt, and
the heavy expense of maintaining our fleets and
armies to be ready for defence on occasion, make it
necessary, not only to continue old taxes, but often
to look out for new ones, perhaps it may not be

326 The Works of [1767

tmuseful to state this matter in a light that few seem
to have considered it in.

The people of Great Britain, under the happy con-
stitution of this country, have a privilege few other
countries enjoy, that of choosing a third branch of the
legislature, which branch has alone the power of
regulating their taxes. Now, whenever the govern-
ment finds it necessary for the common benefit,
advantage, and safety of the nation, for the security
of our liberties, property, religion, and every thing
that is dear to us, that certain sums shall be yearly
raised by taxes, duties, &c, and paid into the public
treasury, thence to be dispensed by government for
those purposes; ought not every honest man freely
and willingly to pay his just proportion of this
necessary expense ? Can he possibly preserve a right
to that character, if, by fraud, stratagem, or contriv-
ance, he avoids that payment in whole or in part?

What should we think of a companion who, having
supped with his friends at a tavern, and partaken
equally of the joys of the evening with the rest of
us, would nevertheless contrive by some artifice to
shift his share of the reckoning upon others, in order
to go off scot-free? If a man who practised this
would, when detected, be deemed and called a scoun-
drel, what ought he to be called who can enjoy
all the inestimable benefits of public society, and yet
by smuggling, or dealing with smugglers, contrive to
evade paying his just share of the expense, as settled
by his own representatives in Parliament, and wrong-
fully throw it upon his honester and perhaps much
poorer neighbours ? He will perhaps be ready to tell

1767] Benjamin Franklin 327

me that he does not wrong his neighbours ; he scorns
the imputation; he only cheats the King a little, who
is very able to bear it. This, however, is a mistake.
The public treasure is the treasure of the nation, to
be applied to national purposes. And when a duty
is laid for a particular public and necessary purpose,
if, through smuggling, that duty falls short of raising
the sum required, and other duties must therefore be
laid to make up the deficiency, all the additional sum
laid by the new duties and paid by other people,
though it should amount to no more than a half-
penny or a farthing per head, is so much actually
picked out of the pockets of those other people by
the smugglers and their abettors and encouragers.
Are they then any better or other than pickpockets?
And what mean, low, rascally pickpockets must
those be, that can pick pockets for half -pence and for
farthings!

I would not, however, be supposed to allow, in
what I have just said, that cheating the King is a
less offence against honesty, than cheating the public.
The King and the public, in this case, are different
names for the same thing; but, if we consider the
King distinctly, it will not lessen the crime; it is no
justification of a robbery, that the person robbed was
rich and able to bear it. The King has as much
right to justice as the meanest of his subjects ; and, as
he is truly the common father of his people, those
that rob him fall under the Scripture woe, pro-
nounced against the son that robbeth his father, and
saith it is no sin.

Mean as this practice is, do we not daily see people

328 The Works of [1767

of character and fortune engaged in it for trifling ad-
vantages to themselves ? Is any lady ashamed to re-
quest of a gentleman of her acquaintance, that when
he returns from abroad he would smuggle her home
a piece of silk or lace from France or Flanders? Is
any gentleman ashamed to undertake and execute the
commission? Not in the least. They will talk of it
freely, even before others whose pockets they are thus
contriving to pick by this piece of knavery.

Among other branches of the revenue, that of the
post-office is, by the late law, appropriated to the dis-
charge of our public debt, to defray the expenses of
the state. None but members of Parliament, and a
few public officers, have now a right to avoid, by a
frank, the payment of postage. When any letter,
not written by them or on their business, is franked
by any of them, it is a hurt to the revenue, an injury
which they must now take the pains to conceal by
writing the whole superscription themselves. And
yet such is our insensibility to justice in this particu-
lar, that nothing is more common than to see, even
in reputable company, a very honest gentleman or lady
declare his or her intention to cheat the nation
of three pence by a frank, and without blushing
apply to one of the very legislators themselves, with
a modest request, that he would be pleased to be-
come an accomplice in the crime, and assist in the
perpetration.

There are those who by these practices take a great
deal in a year out of the public purse, and put the
money into their own private pockets. If, passing
through a room where public treasure is deposited, a

1767] Benjamin Franklin 329

man takes the opportunity of clandestinely pocketing
and carrying off a guinea, is he not truly and properly
a thief? And if another evades paying into the
treasury a guinea he ought to pay in, and applies it
to his own use, when he know it belongs to the public
as much as that which has been paid in, what differ-
ence is there in the nature of the crime, or the base-
ness of committing it?

Some laws make the receiving of stolen goods
equally penal with stealing, and upon this principle,
that if there were no receivers there would be few
thieves. Our proverb too says truly, that the re-
ceiver is as bad as the thief. By the same reasoning,
as there would be few smugglers if there were none
who knowingly encouraged them by buying their
goods, we may say that the encouragers of smuggling
are as bad as the smugglers; and that, as smugglers
are a kind of thieves, both equally deserve the
punishment of thievery.

In this view of wronging the revenue, what must
we think of those who can evade paying for their
wheels l and their plate, in defiance of law and jus-
tice, and yet declaim against corruption and pecula-
tion, as if their own hands and hearts were pure and
unsullied? The Americans offend us grievously,
when, contrary to our laws, they smuggle goods
into their own country; and yet they had no hand
in making those laws. I do not however pretend
from thence to justify them. But I think the of-
fence much greater in those who either directly or

1 Alluding to the British taxes on carriage- wheels and on plate. —

DUANE.

33° The Works of [1767

indirectly have been concerned in making the very-
laws they break. And when I hear them exclaiming
against the Americans, and for every little infringe-
ment on the acts of trade, or obstruction given by
a petty mob to an officer of our customs in that
country, calling for vengeance against the whole peo-
ple as rebels and traitors, I cannot help thinking
there are still those in the world who can see a mote
in their brother's eye, while they do not discern a beam
in their own; and that the old saying is as true now as
ever it was, One man may better steal a horse, than
another look over the hedge.

B. F.

CCCIII

TO WILLIAM FRANKLIN

London, 25 November, 1767.

Dear Son: — I think the New Yorkers have been
very discreet in forbearing to write and publish
against the late act of Parliament. I wish the Bos-
ton people had been as quiet, since Governor Bernard
has sent over all their violent papers to the ministry,
and wrote them word that he daily expected a rebel-
lion. He did indeed afterwards correct this extrava-
gance, by writing again, that he now understood
those papers were approved but by few, and disliked
by all the sober, sensible people of the province. A
certain noble Lord expressed himself to me with some
disgust and contempt of Bernard on this occasion,
saying he ought to have known his people better than
to impute to the whole country sentiments that per-

1767] Benjamin Franklin 331

haps are only scribbled by some madman in a garret ;
that he appeared to be too fond of contention, and
mistook the matter greatly, in supposing such letters
as he wrote were acceptable to the ministry. I have
heard nothing of the appointment of General Clark
to New York; but I know he is a friend of Lord Shel-
burne's, and the same that recommended Mr. Mac-
lean to be his secretary. Perhaps it might be talked
of in my absence.

The commissioners for the American Board went
hence while I was in France. You know before this
time who they are, and how they are received, which
I want to hear.1 Mr. Williams, who is gone in some
office with them, is brother to our cousin Williams
of Boston ; but I assure you I had not the least share
in his appointment, having, as I told you before, care-
fully kept out of the way of that whole affair.2

As soon as I received Mr. Galloway's, Mr. Samuel
Wharton's, and Mr. Croghan's letters on the subject
of the boundary, I communicated them immediately
to Lord Shelburne. He invited me the next day to
dine with him. Lord Clare was to have been there,
but did not come. There was nobody but Mr. Mac-
lean. My Lord knew nothing of the boundary's hav-
ing ever been agreed on by Sir William, had sent the
letters to the Board of Trade, desiring search to be

1 This was the new Board of Commissioners of Customs established
by a late act of Parliament for the colonies. The board was fixed at
Boston, and was particularly odious to the colonists, as it seemed to
be a part of the system of parliamentary taxation. The commis-
sioners were Charles Paxton, Henry Hutton, William Burch, John
Temple, and John Robinson. The three first arrived in Boston in the
beginning of November; the two last were already there.

2 John Williams was inspector-general of the customs.

332 The Works of [1767

made there for Sir William's letters, and ordered Mr.
Maclean to search the secretary's office, who found
nothing. We had much discourse about it, and I
pressed the importance of despatching orders imme-
diately to Sir William to complete the affair. His
Lordship asked who was to make the purchase, that
is, be at the expense. I said that if the line included
any lands within the grants of the charter colonies,
they should pay the purchase money of such pro-
portion; if any within the proprietary grants, they
should pay their proportion; but that what was
within royal governments, where the King granted
the lands, the crown should pay for that proportion.
His Lordship was pleased to say he thought this
reasonable. He finally desired me to go to Lord
Clare, as from him, and urge the business there, which
I undertook to do.

Among other things at this conversation, we talked
of the new settlement. His Lordship told me he had
himself drawn up a paper of reasons for those settle-
ments, which he laid before the King in Council, ac-
quainting them that he did not offer them merely as
his own sentiments ; they were what he had collected
from General Amherst, Dr. Franklin, and Mr. Jack-
son, three gentlemen that were allowed to be the best
authorities for any thing that related to America. I
think he added that the Council seemed to approve
of the design. I know it was referred to the Board
of Trade, who I believe have not yet reported on it,
and I doubt will report against it. My Lord told me
one pleasant circumstance, viz., that he had shown
his paper to the Dean of Gloucester (Tucker), to hear

I767] Benjamin Franklin 333

his opinion of the matter; who very sagaciously re-
marked that he was sure that paper was drawn up
by Dr. Franklin; he saw him in every paragraph;
adding that Dr. Franklin wanted to remove the seat
of government to America; that, says he, is his
constant plan.1

I waited next morning upon Lord Clare, and
pressed the matter of the boundary closely upon him.
He said they could not find they had ever received
any letters from Sir William concerning this bound-
ary, but were searching farther; agreed to the neces-
sity of settling it; but thought there would be some
difficulty about who should pay the purchase money;
for that this country was already so loaded, it could
bear no more. We then talked of the new colonies.
I found he was inclined to think one near the mouth
of the Ohio might be of use in securing the country,
but did not much approve that at Detroit. And, as
to the trade, he imagined it would be of little conse-
quence, if we had all the peltry to be purchased there,
but supposed our traders would sell it chiefly to the
French and Spaniards at New Orleans, as he heard
they had hitherto done.

At the same time that we Americans wish not to be
judged of, in the gross, by particular papers written
by anonymous scribblers and published in the colo-
nies, it would be well if we could avoid falling into
the same mistake in America, in judging of ministers
here by the libels printed against them. The

1 This charge, with others, was made against Dr. Franklin by Dean
Tucker in his publications, particularly in his Four Tracts. — See vol.
vi., Feb. 12, 1774-

334 The Works of [1767

enclosed is a very abusive one, in which if there is
any foundation of truth, it can only be in the insinu-
ation contained in the words " after eleven adjourn-
ments," that they are too apt to postpone business;
but, if they have given any occasion for this reflec-
tion, there are reasons and circumstances that may
be urged in their excuse.

It gives me pleasure to hear that the people of the
other colonies are not insensible of the zeal with
which I occasionally espouse their respective inter-
ests, as well as the interests of the whole. I shall
continue to do so as long as I reside here and am
able.

The present ministry seem now likely to continue
through this session of Parliament; and perhaps, if
the new Parliament should not differ greatly in com-
plexion from this, they may be fixed for a number of
years, which I earnestly wish, as we have no chance

for a better.

B. Franklin.

CCCIV

TO JOSEPH GALLOWAY

London, i December, 1767.

Dear Sir: — I duly received your favors of August
2 2d, September 20th, and October 8th, and within
these few days one of February 14th, recommending
Mr. Morgan Edwards and his affair of the Rhode
Island College, which I shall endeavour to promote,
deeming the institution one of the most catholic and
generous of the kind.

1767] Benjamin Franklin 335

I am inclined to think with you, that the small
sum you have issued to discharge the public debts
only will not be materially affected in its credit for
want of the legal tender, considering especially the
present extreme want of money in the province. You
appear to me to point out the true cause of the
general distress, viz., the late luxurious mode of living
introduced by a too great plenty of cash. It is in-
deed amazing to consider, that we had a quantity
sufficient before the war began, and that the war
added immensely to that quantity, by the sums spent
among us by the crown, and the paper struck and
issued in the province; and now in so few years all
the money spent by the crown is gone away, and has
carried with it all the gold and silver we had before,
leaving us bare and empty, and at the same time
more in debt to England than ever we were. But I
am inclined to think that the mere making more
money will not mend our circumstances, if we do not
return to that industry and frugality which were the
fundamental causes of our former prosperity. I
shall nevertheless do my utmost this winter to obtain
the repeal of the act restraining the legal tender, if
our friends the merchants think it practicable, and
will heartily espouse the cause; and, in truth, they
have full as much interest in the event as we have.

The present ministry, it is now thought, are likely
to continue at least till a new Parliament; so that
our apprehensions of a change, and that Mr. Gren-
ville would come in again, seem over for the present.
He behaves as if a little out of his head on the arti-
cle of America, which he brings into every debate

33& The Works of [1767

without rhyme or reason, when the matter has not
the least connexion with it. Thus, at the beginning
of this session, on the debate upon the King's speech,
he tired everybody, even his friends, with a long ha-
rangue about and against America, of which there
was not a word in the speech. Last Friday he pro-
duced in the House a late Boston Gazette, which he
said denied the legislative authority of Parliament,
was treasonable, rebellious, &c, and moved it might
be read, and that the House would take cognizance
of it; but it being moved, on the other hand, that
Mr. Grenville's motion should be postponed to that
day six months, it was carried without a division, and
as it is known that this Parliament will expire before
that time, it was equivalent to a total rejection of the
motion. The Duke of Bedford, too, it seems, moved
in vain for a consideration of this paper in the House
of Lords. These are favorable symptoms of the
present disposition of Parliament towards America,
which I hope no conduct of the Americans will give
just cause of altering.

Be so good as to present my best respects to the
House, and believe me, with sincere esteem and re-
gard, dear Sir, your affectionate friend and most obe-
dient servant, B. Franklin.

CCCV

TO JOHN ROSS

London, 13 December, 1767.

Dear Sir: — I received your kind letter of October
1 8th. I had before seen, with great pleasure, your

1767] Benjamin Franklin 337

name in the papers as chosen for the city of Phila-
delphia.

The instruction you mention, as proposed by a cer-
tain great man, was really a wild one. The reasons
you made use of against it were clear and strong, and
could not prevail. It will be time enough to show a
dislike to the coalition when it is proposed to us.
Meanwhile we have all the advantage in the argu-
ment of taxation, which our not being represented
will continue to give us. I think, indeed, that such
an event is very remote. This nation is indeed too
proud to propose admitting American representatives
into their Parliament,1 and America is not so humble
or so fond of the honor as to petition for it. In
matrimonial matches, it is said, when one party is
willing the match is half made; but where neither
party is willing there is no great danger of their com-
ing together. And, to be sure, such an important
business would never be treated of by agents unem-
powered and uninstructed ; nor would government
here act upon the private opinion of agents, which
might be disowned by their constituents.

The present ministry seem now likely to continue
through this session; and this, as a new election ap-
proaches, gives them the advantage of getting so
many of their friends chosen as may give a stability
to their administration. I heartily wish it, because
they are all well-disposed towards America.

With sincere esteem, I am, dear Sir, your affection-
ate friend and most obedient servant,

B. Franklin.

1 See letter to Lord Karnes, April u, 1767.

VOL. IV. — 22.

338 The Works of [1767

CCCVI

TO WILLIAM FRANKLIN

London, 19 December, 1767.

Dear Son : — The resolutions of the Boston people
concerning trade make a great noise here.1 Parlia-
ment has not yet taken notice of them, but the news-
papers are in full cry against America. Colonel
Onslow told me in court last Sunday, that I could
not conceive how much the friends of America were
run upon and hurt by them, and how much the Gren-
villians triumphed. I have just written a paper for
next Tuesday's Chronicle to extenuate matters a
little.2

Mentioning Colonel Onslow reminds me of some-
thing that passed at the beginning of this session in
the House between him and Mr. Grenville. The
latter had been raving against America, as traitor-
ous, rebellious, &c, when the former, who has always
been its firm friend, stood up and gravely said that
in reading the Roman history he found it was a cus-
tom among that wise and magnanimous people, when-
ever the senate was informed of any discontent in
the provinces, to send two or three of their body into
the discontented provinces, to inquire into the griev-
ances complained of, and report to the senate, that
mild measures might be used to remedy what was

1 These resolutions were passed on the 28th of Oct., and recommended
that all prudent and legal measures should be taken to encourage the
produce and manufactures of the province, to lessen the use of super-
fluities, and refrain from purchasing a great number of imported
articles.

2 This piece was published January 7, 1768. — See Infra.

1767] Benjamin Franklin 339

amiss, before any severe steps were taken to enforce
obedience; that this example he thought worthy of
our imitation in the present state of our colonies, for
he did so far agree with the honorable gentleman
that spoke just before him, as to allow there were
great discontents among them. He should therefore
beg leave to move, that two or three members of
Parliament be appointed to go over to New England
on this service. And that it might not be supposed
he was for imposing burdens on others which he
would not be willing to bear himself, he did at the
same time declare his own willingness, if the House
should think fit to appoint them, to go over thither
with that honorable gentleman. Upon this there was
a great laugh, which continued some time, and was
rather increased by Mr. Grenville's asking, " Will the
gentleman engage that I shall be safe there? Can I
be assured that I shall be allowed to come back again
to make the report? " As soon as the laugh was so
far subsided, as that Mr. Onslow could be heard
again, he added, " I cannot absolutely engage for the
honorable gentleman's safe return; but if he goes
thither upon this service I am strongly of opinion the
event will contribute greatly to the future quiet of
both countries." On which the laugh was renewed
and redoubled.

If our people should follow the Boston example in
entering into resolutions of frugality and industry,
full as necessary for us as for them, I hope they will
among other things give this reason, that it is to en-
able them more speedily and effectually to discharge
their debts to Great Britain. This will soften a little,

340 The Works of [1767

and at the same time appear honorable and like our-
selves. We have had an ugly affair at the Royal So-
ciety lately. One Dacosta, a Jew, who, as our clerk,
was intrusted with collecting our moneys, has been
so unfaithful as to embezzle near thirteen hundred
pounds in four years. Being one of the Council this
year, as well as the last, I have been employed all the
last week in attending the inquiry into, and unravel-
ling his accounts, in order to come at a full knowledge
of his frauds. His securities are bound in one thou-
sand pounds to the Society, which they will pay, but
we shall probably lose the rest. He had this year
received twenty-six admission payments of twenty-
five guineas each, which he did not bring to account.
While attending to this affair, I had an opportunity
of looking over the old council-books and journals of
the Society, and, having a curiosity to see how I came
in, of which I had never been informed, I looked
back for the minutes relating to it. You must know
it is not usual to admit persons that have not re-
quested to be admitted; and a recommendatory cer-
tificate in favor of the candidate, signed by at least
three of the members, is by our rule to be presented
to the Society, expressing that he is desirous of that
honor, and is so and so qualified. As I never had
asked or expected the honor, I was, as I said before,
curious to see how the business was managed. I
found that the certificate, worded very advantage-
ously for me, was signed by Lord Macclesfield, then
President, Lord Parker, and Lord Willoughby ; that
the election was by a unanimous vote ; and, the honor
being voluntarily conferred by the Society, unso-

1767] Benjamin Franklin 341

licit ed by me, it was thought wrong to demand or re-
ceive the usual fees or composition ; so that my name
was entered on the list with a vote of Council, that I
was not to pay any thing. And accordingly nothing
has ever been demanded of me. Those who are ad-
mitted in the common way, pay five guineas ad-
mission fees, and two guineas and a half yearly
contribution, or twenty-five guineas down, in lieu of
it. In my case a substantial favor accompanied the
honor. Yours, &c,

B. Franklin.

CCCVII

FROM THOMAS POWNALL TO B. FRANKLIN

Dear Sir: — The following objection against com-
municating to the colonies the rights, privileges, and
powers of the realm, as to parts of the realm, has
been made. I have been endeavouring to obviate
it, and I communicate it to you, in hopes of your
promised assistance.

"If," say the objectors, "we communicate to the
colonies the power of sending representatives, and in
consequence expect them to participate in an equal
share and proportion of all our taxes, we must grant to
them all the powers of trade and manufacturing,
which any other parts of the realm within the Isle of
Great Britain enjoy. If so, perchance the profits of
the Atlantic commerce may converge to some centre
in America; to Boston, New York, Philadelphia, or
to some of the isles. If so, then the natural and

342 The Works of [I767

aritficial produce of the colonies, and in course of con-
sequences the landed interest of the colonies, will be
promoted; while the natural and artificial produce
and landed interest of Great Britain will be depressed
to its utter ruin and destruction; and, consequently,
the balance of the power of government, although
still within the realm, will be locally transferred from
Great Britain to the colonies. Which consequence,
however it may suit a citizen of the world, must be
folly and madness to a Briton/'

My fit has gone off; and though weak, both from
the gout and a concomitant and very ugly fever, I am
much better. Would be glad to see you. Your

friend,

T. Pownall.

DR. FRANKLIN'S ANSWER

This objection goes upon the supposition that
whatever the colonies gain Britain must lose, and
that if the colonies can be kept from gaining an
advantage, Britain will gain it.

If the colonies are fitter for a particular trade than
Britain, they should have it, and Britain apply to
what it is more fit for. The whole empire is a gainer.
And if Britain is not so fit or so well situated for a
particular advantage, other countries will get it,
if the colonies do not. Thus Ireland was forbid the
woollen manufacture, and remains poor ; but this has
given to the French the trade and wealth Ireland
might have gained for the British Empire.

The government cannot long be retained without

1767] Benjamin Franklin 343

the union. Which is best (supposing your case) — to
have a total separation, or a change of the seat of
government? It by no means follows that promot-
ing and advancing the landed interest in America
will depress that of Great Britain ; the contrary has
always been the fact. Advantageous situations and
circumstances will always secure and fix manufac-
tures. Sheffield against all Europe these three hun-
dred years past.

CCCVIII

ON THE PRICE OF CORN, AND MANAGEMENT OF
THE POOR

In A Select Collection of Scarce and Valuable Economical
Tracts, edited by J. R. McCulloch and printed by Lord
Overstone in 1859, this from Franklin's pen figures as
one of fifteen papers on economical subjects in the collec-
tion. It first appeared in the London Chronicle, in 1766,
and was written in behalf of the farmers who at that
time had to contend against a violent popular prejudice.

TO THE PUBLIC

I am one of that class of people that feeds you
all, and at present is abused by you all; in short, I
am a farmer.

By your newspapers we are told that God had
sent a very short harvest to some other countries of
Europe. I thought this might be in favor of Old
England; and that now we should get a good price
for our grain, which would bring millions among us,

344 The Works of [1767

and make us flow in money ; that to be sure is scarce
enough.

But the wisdom of government forbade the ex-
portation.1

" Well," says I, " then we must be content with the
market price at home."

"No," say my lords the mob, "you sha'n't have
that. Bring your corn to market if you dare; we '11
sell it for you for less money, or take it for nothing."

Being thus attacked by both ends of the constitu-
tion, the head and tail of government, what am I to do ?

Must I keep my corn in the barn, to feed and in-
crease the breed of rats? Be it so; they cannot be
less thankful than those I have been used to feed.

Are we farmers the only people to be grudged the
profits of our honest labor ? And why ? One of the
late scribblers against us gives a bill of fare of
the provisions at my daughter's wedding, and pro-
claims to all the world that we had the insolence to
eat beef and pudding ! Has he not read the precept
in the good Book, Thou shalt not muzzle the mouth
of the ox that treadeth out the corn; or does he think
us less worthy of good living than our oxen ?

"O, but the manufacturers! the manufacturers!
they are to be favored, and they must have bread at
a cheap rate! "

Hark ye, Mr. Oaf; the farmers live splendidly, you

1 It is not necessary to repeat in what degree Dr. Franklin respected
the ministers to whom he alludes. The embargo upon corn was but a
single measure, which, it is enough to say, a host of politicians thought
well advised, but ill defended. Of the great and honorable services
of the Earl of Chatham to his country, Dr. Franklin has borne the
amplest testimony. — B. V.

1767] Benjamin Franklin 345

say. And pray, would you have them hoard the
money they get ? Their fine clothes and furniture, do
they make them themselves, or for one another, and
so keep the money among them ? Or do they employ
these your darling manufacturers, and so scatter it
again all over the nation?

The wool would produce me a better price if it
were suffered to go to foreign markets; but that,
Messieurs the Public, your laws will not permit. It
must be kept all at home that our dear manufacturers
may have it the cheaper. And then, having your-
selves thus lessened our encouragement for raising
sheep, you curse us for the scarcity of mutton!

I have heard my grandfather say that the farmers
submitted to the prohibition on the exportation of
wool, being made to expect and believe that when the
manufacturer bought his wool cheaper they should
also have their cloth cheaper. But the deuce a bit.
It has been growing dearer and dearer from that
day to this. How so? Why, truly, the cloth is
exported ; and that keeps up the price.

Now, if it be a good principle that the exportation
of a commodity is to be restrained, that so our people
at home may have it cheaper, stick to that principle,
and go thorough-stitch with it. Prohibit the expor-
tation of your cloth, your leather, and shoes, your
iron ware, and your manufactures of all sorts, to make
them all cheaper at home. And cheap enough they
will be, I will warrant you, till people leave off making
them.

Some folks seem to think they ought never to
be easy till England becomes another Lubberland,

346 The Works of [1767

where it is fancied that streets are paved with penny-
rolls, the houses tiled with pancakes, and chickens,
ready roasted, cry: "Come eat me."

I say, when you are sure you have got a good prin-
ciple, stick to it, and carry it through. I hear it is
said that though it was necessary and right for the
ministry to advise a prohibition of the exportation of
corn, yet it was contrary to law; and also that it was
contrary to law for the mob to obstruct wagons ; yet
it was necessary and right. Just the same thing to a
tittle. Now they tell me an act of indemnity ought
to pass in favor of the ministry to secure them from
the consequences of having acted illegally. If so,
pass another in favor of the mob. Others say some
of the mob ought to be hanged by way of example.
If so, — but I say no more than I have said before,
when you are sure that you have a good principle, go
through with it.

You say poor laborers cannot afford to buy bread
at a high price unless they had higher wages. Pos-
sibly. But how shall we farmers be able to afford
our laborers higher wages if you will not allow us to
get, when we might have it, a higher price for our
corn?

By all that I can learn, we should, at least, have
had a guinea a quarter more if the exportation had
been allowed. And this money England would have
got from foreigners.

But it seems we farmers must take so much less,
that the poor may have it so much cheaper.

This operates, then, as a tax for the maintenance of
the poor. A very good thing you will say. But I

1767] Benjamin Franklin 347

ask: Why a partial tax? why laid on us farmers
only? If it be a good thing, pray, Messieurs the
Public, take your share of it by indemnifying us a
little out of your public treasury. In doing a good
thing there is both honor and pleasure ; your are wel-
come to your share of both.

For my own part, I am not so well satisfied of the
goodness of this thing. I am for doing good to the
poor; but I differ in opinion about the means. I
think the best way of doing good to the poor is, not
making them easy in poverty, but leading or driving
them out of it. In my youth I travelled much, and
I observed in different countries that the more public
provisions were made for the poor, the less they pro-
vided for themselves, and, of course, became poorer.
And, on the contrary, the less was done for them, the
more they did for themselves, and became richer.
There is no country in the world where so many pro-
visions are established for them; so many hospitals
to receive them when they are sick or lame, founded
and maintained by voluntary charities; so many
almshouses for the aged of both sexes, together with
a solemn general law made by the rich to subject
their estates to a heavy tax for the support of the
poor. Under all these obligations are our poor
modest, humble, and thankful? And do they use
their best endeavours to maintain themselves, and
lighten our shoulders of this burthen? On the con-
trary, I affirm that there is no country in the world
in which the poor are more idle, dissolute, drunken,
and insolent. The day you passed that act you
took away from before their eyes the greatest of all

348 The Works of [1767

inducements to industry, frugality, and sobriety, by
giving them a dependence on somewhat else than a
careful accumulation during youth and health for
support in age or sickness.

In short, you offered a premium for the encourage-
ment of idleness, and you should not now wonder,
that it has had its effect in the increase of poverty.
Repeal that law, and you will soon see a change in
their manners. Saint Monday and Saint Tuesday
will soon cease to be holidays. Six days shalt thou
labor, though one of the old commandments long
treated as out of date, will again be looked upon as a
respectable precept; industry will increase, and with
it plenty among the lower people ; their circumstances
will mend, and more will be done for their happiness
by inuring them to provide for themselves, than could
be done by dividing all your estates among them.

Excuse me, Messieurs the Public, if, upon this in-
teresting subject, I put you to the trouble of reading
a little of my nonsense. I am sure I have lately read
a great deal of yours, and therefore from you (at least
from those of you who are writers) I deserve a little

indulgence.

I am yours, &c,

Arator.1

1 It should be borne in mind that this paper was published nine
years before Dr. Adam Smith's Wealth of Nations, and eight years
before Smith visited Paris and made the acquaintance of the econ-
omists of the French capital, by whose writings and conversation it is
generally supposed that his attention was first specially directed to
those studies and reflections which finally gave birth to the Wealth of
Nations. — Editor.

1767] Benjamin Franklin 349

CCCIX

THE RIGHT OF IMPRESSING SEAMEN

REMARKS ON JUDGE FOSTER'S ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF THE RIGHT.1

Page 157. "The only question at present is, whether
mariners, persons who have freely chosen a seafaring
life, persons whose education and employment have fitted
them for the service, and inured them to it, whether such
persons may not be legally pressed into the service of the
crown, whenever the public safety requireth it; ne quid
detrimenti respublica capiat.

"For my part, I think they may. I think the crown
hath a right to command the service of these people when-
ever the public safety calleth for it. The same right that
it hath to require the personal service of every man able
to bear arms in case of a sudden invasion or formidable
insurrection. The right in both cases is founded on one
and the same principle, the necessity of the case in order
to the preservation of the whole."

The conclusion here, from the whole to a part, does
not seem to be good logic. When the personal ser-
vice of every man is called for, there the burthen is
equal. Not so, when the service of part is called for,
and others excused. If the alphabet should say, Let
us all fight for the defence of the whole ; that is equal,
and may therefore be just. But if they should say,
Let A, B, C, and D go and fight for us, while we
stay at home and sleep in whole skins; that is not
equal, and therefore cannot be just.

1 These remarks were written in pencil on the margin of Judge
Foster's Report, in which was contained his argument respecting the
impressment of seamen. The references are to the edition of 1762.

35° The Works of [1767

Page 158. "It would be time very ill spent to go
about to prove that this nation can never be long in a
state of safety, our coast defended, and our trade pro-
tected, without a naval force equal to all the emergencies
that may happen. And how can we be secure of such a
force? The keeping up the same naval force in time of
peace, which will be absolutely necessary for our security
in time of war, would be an absurd, a fruitless, and a
ruinous expense. The only course then left, is for the
crown to employ, upon emergent occasions, the mariners
bred up in the merchant's service."

Employ — if you please. The word signifies enga-
ging a man to work for me by offering him such wages
as are sufficient to induce him to prefer my service.
This is very different from compelling him to work for
me on such terms as I think proper.

"And as for the mariner himself, he, when taken into
the service of the crown, only changeth masters for a
time; his service and employment continue the very
same, with this advantage, that the dangers of the sea
and enemy are not so great in the service of the crown
as in that of the merchant."

These are false facts. His service and employment
are not the same. Under the merchant, he goes in an
unarmed vessel not obliged to fight, but only to trans-
port merchandise. In the king's service, he is
obliged to fight, and to hazard all the dangers of
battle. Sickness on board the king's ships is also
more common and more mortal. The merchant's
service too he can quit at the end of a voyage, not the
king's. Also the merchant's wages are much higher.

"lam very sensible of the hardship the sailor suffereth

J767] Benjamin Franklin 351

from an impress in some particular cases, especially if
pressed homeward-bound after a long voyage. But the
merchants who hear me know that an impress on out-
ward-bound vessels would be attended with much greater
inconveniences to the trade of the kingdom; and yet
that too is sometimes necessary."

Here are two things put in comparison that are
not comparable, viz. : injury to seamen and incon-
venience to trade. Inconvenience to the whole trade
of a nation will not justify injustice to a single sea-
man. If the trade would suffer without his service,
it is able and ought to be willing to offer him such
wages as may induce him to afford his services
voluntarily.

" But where two evils present, a wise administration,
if there be room for an option, will choose the least."

The least evil, in case seamen are wanted, is to
give them such wages as will induce them to enlist
voluntarily. Let this evil be divided among the
whole nation, by an equal tax to pay such wages.

Page 159. " War itself is a great evil, but it is chosen
to avoid a greater. The practice of pressing is one of the
mischiefs war bringeth with it. But it is a maxim in
law, and good policy too, that private mischiefs must be
borne with patience for preventing a national calamity."

Where is this maxim in law and good policy to be
found? And how came that to be a maxim, which
is not consistent with common sense ? If the maxim
had been, that private mischiefs which prevent a
national calamity ought to be generously compen-
sated by that nation, one might have understood it.

35 2 The Works of [1767

But that such private mischiefs are only to be borne
with patience is absurd.

"And as no greater calamity can befall us than to be
weak and defenceless at sea in a time of war, so I do not
know that the wisdom of the nation hath hitherto found
out any method of manning our navy less inconvenient
than pressing, and, at the same time, equally sure and
effectual."

Less inconvenient to whom? To the rich, indeed,
who ought to be taxed. No mischief more incon-
venient to poor seamen could possibly be contrived.

" The expedient of a voluntary register, which was at-
tempted in King William's time, had no effect. And
some late schemes I have seen, appear to me more in-
convenient to the mariner, and more inconsistent with
the principles of liberty, than the practice of pressing;
and, what is still worse, they are in my opinion totally
impracticable."

Twenty ineffectual or inconvenient schemes will
not justify one that is unjust.

"The crown's right of impressing seaman is grounded
upon common law."

If impressing seamen is of right by common law
in Britain, slavery is then of right by common
law there; there being no slavery worse than that
sailors are subjected to.

" The result of evident necessity."

Pressing not so, if the end might be answered by
giving higher wages.

1767] Benjamin Franklin 353

Page 160. "There are many precedents of writs for
pressing. Some are for pressing ships ; others for press-
ing mariners ; and others for pressing ships and mariners.
This general view will be sufficient to let us into the
nature of these precedents. And though the affair of
pressing ships is not now before me, yet I could not well
avoid mentioning it, because many of the precedents I
have met with and must cite, go as well to that, as to the
business of pressing mariners. And, taken together, they
serve to show the power the crown hath constantly ex-
ercised over the whole naval force of the kingdom, as
well shipping as mariners, whenever the public service re-
quired it. This however must be observed, that no man
served the crown in either case at his own expense. Mas-
ters and mariners received full wages, and owners were
constantly paid a full freight."

Full wages. Probably the same they received in
the merchant's service. Full wages to a seaman in
time of war, are wages he has in the merchant's
service in war time. But half such wages is not
given in the king's ship to impressed seamen.

Page 173. "Do not these things incontestably pre-
suppose the expediency, the necessity, and the legality of
an impress in general? If they do not, one must enter-
tain an opinion of the legislature acting and speaking in
this manner, which it will not be decent for me to mention
in this place."

I will risk that indecency, and mention it. They
were not honest men ; they acted unjustly by the sea-
men (who have no vote in elections, or being abroad
cannot use them if they have them), to save their
own purses and those of their constituents. Former

VOL. IV. — 23.

354 The Works of [1767

Parliaments acted the same injustice towards the
laboring people, who had not forty shillings a year in
lands; after depriving them wickedly of their right
to vote in elections, they limited their wages, and
compelled them to work at such limited rates, on
penalty of being sent to houses of correction. Sec. 8,
H. vi., Chaps. 7 and 8.

Page 174. "I readily admit that an impress is a re-
straint upon the natural liberty of those who are liable
to it. But it must likewise be admitted, on the other
hand, that every restraint upon natural liberty is not eo
nomine illegal, or at all inconsistent with the principles
of civil liberty. And if the restraint, be it to what degree
soever, appeareth to be necessary to the good and wel-
fare of the whole, and to be warranted by statute law, as
well as immemorial usage, it cannot be complained of
otherwise than as a private mischief; which, as I said at
the beginning, must under all governments whatsoever be
submitted to for avoiding a public inconvenience."

I do not see the propriety of this must. The pri-
vate mischief is the loss of liberty and the hazard
of life, with only half wages, to a great number of
honest men The public inconvenience is merely a
higher rate of seamen's wages. He who thinks such
private injustice must be done to avoid public incon-
venience, may understand law, but seems imperfect
in his knowledge of equity. Let us apply this author's
doctrine to his own case. It is for the public service
that courts should be had and judges appointed to
administer the laws. The judges should be bred to
the law and skilled in it, but their great salaries

1767] Benjamin Franklin 355

are a public inconvenience. To remove the inconven-
ience, let press- warrants issue to arrest and appre-
hend the best lawyers, and compel them to serve as
judges for half the money they would have made at
the bar. Then tell them that, though this is to them
a private mischief, it must be submitted to for avoid-
ing a public inconvenience. Would the learned judge
approve such use of his doctrine?

When the author speaks of impressing, page 158,
he diminishes the horror of the practice as much as
possible, by presenting to the mind one sailor only
suffering a hardship as he tenderly calls it, in some
particular cases only ; and he places against this pri-
vate mischief the inconvenience to the trade of the
kingdom. But if, as I suppose is often the case, the
sailor who is pressed and obliged to serve for the de-
fence of this trade at the rate of 255. a month, could
have £3 15s. in the merchant's service, you take
from him 505. a month; and if you have 100,000 in
your service, you rob that honest part of society and
their poor families of £250,000 per month, or three
millions a year, and at the same time oblige them to
hazard their lives in fighting for the defence of your
trade; to the defence of which all ought indeed to
contribute (and sailors among the rest) in propor-
tion to their profits by it; but this three millions is
more than their share, if they did not pay with their
persons; and, when you force that, methinks you
should excuse the other.

But it may be said, to give the king's seamen mer-
chant's wages would cost the nation too much, and
call for more taxes. The question then will amount

356 The Works of [1767

to this : whether it be just in a community that the
richer part should compel the poorer to fight for
them and their properties, for such wages as they
think fit to allow, and punish them if they refuse?
Our author tells us it is legal. I have not law enough
to dispute his authority, but I cannot persuade my-
self it is equitable. I will however own for the present,
that pressing may be lawful when necessary ; but then
I contend that it may be used so as to produce the
same good effect, the public security, without doing
so much horrible injustice as attends the impressing
common seamen. In order to be better understood,
I would premise two things. First, that voluntary-
seamen might be had for the service, if they were
sufficiently paid. The proof of this is, that to serve
in the same ships, and incur the same dangers, you
have no occasion to impress captains, lieutenants,
second lieutenants, midshipmen, pursers, nor any
other officers. Why, but that the profit of their
places, or the emoluments expected, are sufficient
inducements? The business then is by impressing to
find money sufficient to make the sailors all volun-
teers, as well as their officers; and this without any
fresh burthen upon trade. The second of my pre-
mises is, that 255. a month, with his share of the salt
beef, pork, and pease-pudding, being found suffi-
cient for the subsistence of a hard-working seaman,
it will certainly be so for a sedentary scholar or gentle-
man. I would then propose to form a treasury, out
of which encouragement to seamen should be paid.
To fill this treasury I would impress a number of
civil officers who at present have great salaries,

1767] Benjamin Franklin 357

oblige them to serve in their respective offices for
255. per month, with their share of the mess provi-
sions, and throw the rest of their salaries into the sea-
man's treasury. If such a press- warrant was given
me to execute, the first person I would press should
be a recorder of Bristol, or a Mr. Justice Foster, be-
cause I might have need of his edifying example, to
show how such impressing ought to be borne with;
for he would certainly find that, though to be reduced
to 255. per month might be a private mischief, yet
that, agreeably to his maxim of law and good policy,
it ought to be borne with patience for preventing a
national calamity. Then I would press the rest of
the judges; and, opening the Red Book, I would
press every civil officer of government from £50 a
year up to £50,000, which would throw an immense
sum into our treasury; and these gentlemen could
not well complain, since they would receive their 25s.
a month and their rations, and that too without
being obliged to fight. Lastly, I think I would
impress the king, and confiscate his salary; but,
from an ancient prejudice I have in favor of that title,
I would allow him the gentleman merchant's pay.
I could not go farther in his favor; for, to say the
truth, I am not quite satisfied of the necessity or
utility of that office in Great Britain, as I see many
flourishing states in the world governed well and
happy without it.

Page 177. " For I freely declare that ancient precedents
alone, unless supported by modern practice, weigh very
little with me in questions of this nature."

358 The Works of [1767

The modern practice, supported by ancient pre-
cedents, weigh as little with me. Both the one and
the other only show that the constitution is yet
imperfect, since in so general a case it doth not
secure liberty, but destroys it; and the parliaments
are unjust, conniving at oppression of the poor,
where the rich are to be gainers or savers by such
oppression.

Page 179. "I make no apology for the length of my
argument, because I hope the importance of the question
will be thought a sufficient excuse for me in this respect."

The author could not well have made his argument
shorter. It required a long discourse to throw dust
in the eyes of common sense, confound all our ideas
of right and wrong, make black seem white, and the
worse appear the better opinion.

cccx

VINDICATION OF THE PROVINCIAL PAPER-MONEY
SYSTEM.1

In the Report of the Board of Trade, dated Feb-
ruary 9, 1764, the following reasons are given for

1 Mr. Vaughan says, in his edition of the author's writings: "The
best account I can give of the occasion of the Report, to which this
paper is a reply, is as follows: During the war there had been a con-
siderable and unusual trade to America, in consequence of the great
fleets and armies on foot there, and the clandestine dealings with the
enemy, who were cut off from their own supplies. This made great
debts. The briskness of the trade ceasing with the war, the mer-
chants were anxious for payment; which occasioned some confusion
in the colonies, and stirred up a clamor here against paper money The

1767] Benjamin Franklin 359

restraining the emission of paper bills of credit in
America as a legal tender.

1. "That it carries the gold and silver out of the
province, and so ruins the country ; as experience has
shown in every colony where it has been practised in
any great degree.

2. "That the merchants trading to America have
suffered and lost by it.

3. "That the restriction has had a beneficial effect
in New England.

4. "That every medium of trade should have an
intrinsic value, which paper money has not. Gold
and silver are therefore the fittest for this medium, as
they are an equivalent, which paper never can be.

5. "That debtors, in the Assemblies, make paper
money with fraudulent views.

6. "That in the middle colonies, where the credit
of the paper money has been best supported, the

Board of Trade, of which Lord Hillsborough was the chief, joined in this
opposition to paper money, as appears by the Report. Dr. Franklin,
being asked to draw up an answer to their report, wrote the following
paper."

" It is to be observed that he vindicates the system on the ground of
its absolute necessity, as the means of a supply of a circulating medium.
The existence of such necessity is then the main question. The sup-
pression of the paper currency in Massachusetts, in 1747, in pursuance
of Hutchinson's proposal, and its suppression in the other New England
provinces, afford very strong grounds of argument against the exist-
ence of any such necessity, notwithstanding the difference in the cir-
cumstances of the middle provinces, from those of the New England
provinces, pointed out by Franklin in this paper; since, after all, the
cause imagined for this necessity, namely, the excessive importations,
the constantly outstanding balance due to the British merchants, and
the consequent remittances of specie, existed no less in New England
than in the middle provinces. It may be gravely doubted whether the
operation of these causes was so different in the different provinces as
Franklin supposes." — W. Phillips.

360 The Works of [1767

bills have never kept to their nominal value in circu-
lation, but have constantly depreciated to a certain
degree, whenever the quantity has been increased."
To consider these reasons in their order, the first is :
First. "That paper money carries the gold and
silver out of the province, and so ruins the country;
as experience has shown in every colony where it has
been practised in any great degree." This opinion
of its ruining the country seems to be merely specu-
lative, or not otherwise founded than upon misinfor-
mation in the matter of fact. The truth is, that the
balance of their trade with Britain being greatly
against them, the gold and silver is drawn out to pay
that balance ; and then the necessity of some medium
of trade has induced the making of paper money,
which could not be carried away. Thus, if carrying
out all the gold and silver ruins a country, every
colony was ruined before it made paper money. But,
far from being ruined by it, the colonies that have
made use of paper money have been, and are, all in
a thriving condition. The debt indeed to Britain
has increased, because their members, and of course
their trade, have increased; for, all trade having al-
ways a proportion of debt outstanding, which is paid
in its turn, while fresh debt is contracted, the propor-
tion of debt naturally increases as the trade increases ;
but the improvement and increase of estates in the
colonies has been in a greater proportion than their
debt.

New England, particularly, in 1696 (about the
time they began the use of paper money) , had, in all
its four provinces, but one hundred and thirty

1767] Benjamin Franklin 361

churches or congregations; in 1760 they were five
hundred and thirty. The number of farms and build-
ings there is increased in proportion to the numbers of
people; and the goods exported to them from Eng-
land in 1750, before the restraint took place, were
near five time as much as before they had paper
money. Pennsylvania, before it made any paper
money, was totally stript of its gold and silver;
though they had, from time to time, like the neigh-
bouring colonies, agreed to take gold and silver coin
at higher and higher nominal values, in hopes of
drawing money into, and retaining it for the internal
uses of, the province. During that weak practice,
silver got up by degrees to Ss. gd. per ounce, and
English crowns were called six, seven, and eight
shilling pieces, long before paper money was made.
But this practice of increasing the denomination was
found not to answer the end. The balance of trade
carried out the gold and silver as fast as it was
brought in, the merchants raising the price of their
goods in proportion to the increased denomination of
the money. The difficulties for want of cash were
accordingly very great, the chief part of the trade
being carried on by the extremely inconvenient
method of barter; when, in 1723, paper money was
first made there, which gave new life to business,
promoted greatly the settlement of new lands (by
lending small sums to beginners on easy interest, to
be repaid by instalments), whereby the province
has so greatly increased in inhabitants, that the ex-
port from hence thither is now more than tenfold
what it then was ; and, by their trade with foreign

362 The Works of [1767

colonies, they have been able to obtain great quanti-
ties of gold and silver, to remit hither in return for
the manufactures of this country. New York and
New Jersey have also increased greatly during the
same period, with the use of paper money ; so that it
does not appear to be of the ruinous nature ascribed
to it. And if the inhabitants of those countries are
glad to have the use of paper among themselves, that
they may thereby be enabled to spare, for remittances
hither, the gold and silver they obtain by their
commerce with foreigners, one would expect that no
objection against their parting with it could arise
here, in the country that receives it.

The second reason is: " That the merchants trading
to America have suffered and lost by the paper
money." This may have been the case in particular
instances, at particular times and places ; as in South
Carolina about fifty-eight years since, when the
colony was thought in danger of being destroyed by
the Indians and Spaniards; and the British mer-
chants, in fear of losing their whole effects there,
called precipitately for remittances ; and the inhabit-
ants, to get something lodged in safe countries, gave
any price in paper money for bills of exchange;
where by the paper, as compared with bills, or with
produce, or other effects fit for exportation, was sud-
denly and greatly depreciated.

The unsettled state of government for a long time
in that province had also its share in depreciating its
bills. But since that danger blew over, and the
colony has been in the hands of the crown, their cur-
rency became fixed, and has so remained to this day.

1767] Benjamin Franklin 363

Also in New England, when much greater quantities
were issued than were necessary for a medium of
trade, to defray the expedition against Louisburg;
and during the last war in Virginia and North Caro-
lina, when great sums were issued to pay the colony
troops, and the war made tobacco a poorer remit-
tance, from the higher price of freight and insurance;
in these cases, the merchants trading to those colo-
nies may sometimes have suffered by the sudden and
unforeseen rise of exchange. By slow and gradual
rises they seldom suffer ; the goods being sold at pro-
portionable prices. But war is a common calamity
in all countries, and the merchants that deal with
them cannot expect to avoid a share of the losses it
sometimes occasions, by affecting public credit. It is
hoped, however, that the profits of their subsequent
commerce with those colonies may have made them
some reparation. And the merchants trading to the
middle colonies (New York, New Jersey, and Pennsyl-
vania) have never suffered by any rise of exchange;
it having ever been a constant rule there to consider
British debts as payable in Britain, and not to be dis-
charged but by as much paper (whatever might be
the rate of exchange) as would purchase a bill for the
full sterling sum. On the contrary, the merchants
have been great gainers by the use of paper money
in those colonies; as it enabled them to send much
greater quantities of goods, and the purchasers to pay
more punctually for them. And the people there
make no complaint of any injury done them by paper
money, with a legal tender; they are sensible of its
benefits, and petition to have it so allowed.

364 The Works of [1767

The third reason is: "That the restriction has had
a beneficial effect in New England." Particular cir-
cumstances in the New England colonies made paper
money less necessary and less convenient to them.
They have great and valuable fisheries of whale and
cod, by which large remittances can be made. They
are four distinct governments ; but having much mu-
tual intercourse of dealings, the money of each used
to pass current in all. But the whole of this common
currency, not being under one common direction, was
not so easily kept within due bounds; the prudent
reserve of one colony in its emissions being rendered
useless by excess in another. The Massachusetts
therefore were not dissatisfied with the restraint, as it
restrained their neighbours as well as themselves;
and perhaps they do not desire to have the act re-
pealed. They have not yet felt much inconvenience
from it ; as they were enabled to abolish their paper
currency by a large sum in silver from Britain, to re-
imburse their expenses in taking Louisburg; which,
with the gold brought from Portugal, by means of
their fish, kept them supplied with a currency, till the
late war furnished them and all America with bills of
exchange, so that little cash was needed for remit-
tance. Their fisheries, too, furnish them with re-
mittances through Spain and Portugal to England;
which enables them the more easily to retain gold
and silver in their country. The middle colonies
have not this advantage; nor have they tobacco,
which, in Virginia and Maryland, answers the same
purpose. When colonies are so different in their cir-
cumstances, a regulation, that is not inconvenient to

I767] Benjamin Franklin 365

one or a few, may be very much so to the rest. But
the pay is now become so indifferent in New England,
at least in some of its provinces, through the want of
currency, that the trade thither is at present under
great discouragement.

The fourth reason is : " That every medium of trade
should have an intrinsic value, which paper money has
not. Gold and silver are therefore the fittest for this
medium, as they are an equivalent which paper never
can be." However fit a particular thing may be for
a particular purpose, wherever that thing is not to be
had in sufficient quantity, it becomes necessary to use
something else, the fittest that can be got in lieu of
it. Gold and silver are not the produce of North
America, which has no mines; and that which is
brought thither cannot be kept there in sufficient
quantity for currency. Britain, an independent,
great state, when its inhabitants grow too fond of
the expensive luxuries of foreign countries, that
draw away its money, can, and frequently does, make
laws to prohibit or discourage such importations;
and, by that means, can retain its cash.

The colonies are dependent governments; and
their people, having naturally great respect for the
sovereign country, and being thence immoderately
fond of its modes, manufactures, and superfluities,
cannot be restrained from purchasing them by any
province law; because such law, if made, would im-
mediately be repealed here, as prejudicial to the trade
and interest of Britain. It seems hard, therefore, to
draw all their real money from them, and then refuse
them the poor privilege of using paper instead of it.

366 The Works of [1767

Bank bills and bankers' notes are daily used here as a
medium of trade, and in large dealings perhaps the
greater part is transacted by their means; and yet
they have no intrinsic value, but rest on the credit of
those that issue them, as paper bills in the colonies
do on the credit of the respective governments there.
Their being payable in cash, upon sight, by the
drawer, is indeed a circumstance that cannot attend
the colony bills, for the reasons just above mentioned,
their cash being drawn from them by the British
trade. But the legal tender, being substituted in its
place, is rather a greater advantage to the possessor;
since he need not be at the trouble of going to a par-
ticular bank or banker to demand the money, finding
(wherever he has occasion to lay out money in the
province) a person that is obliged to take the bills. So
that, even out of the province, the knowledge that
every man within that province is obliged to take its
money, gives the bills a credit among its neighbours,
nearly equal to what they have at home. And, were
it not for the laws here [in England], that restrain or
prohibit as much as possible all losing trades, the
cash of this country would soon be exported. Every
merchant who had occasion to remit it would run
to the bank with all its bills that came into his hands,
and take out his part of its treasure for that purpose;
so that, in a short time, it would be no more able to
pay bills in money upon sight, than it is now in the
power of a colony treasury so to do. And if gov-
ernment afterwards should have occasion for the
credit of the bank, it must of necessity make its bills
a legal tender; funding them however on taxes, by

1767] Benjamin Franklin 367

which they may in time be paid off ; as has been the
general practice in the colonies.

At this very time even the silver money in England
is obliged to the legal tender for part of its value;
that part which is the difference between its real
weight and its denomination. Great part of the
shillings and sixpences now current are, by wearing,
become five, ten, twenty, and some of the sixpences
even fifty per cent, too light. For this difference be-
tween the real and the nominal, you have no intrinsic
value; you have not so much as paper, you have
nothing. It is the legal tender, with the knowledge
that it can easily be repassed for the same value, that
makes three-pennyworth of silver pass for sixpence.
Gold and silver have undoubtedly some properties
that give them a fitness above paper as a medium of
exchange; particularly their universal estimation;
especially in cases where a country has occasion to
carry its money abroad, either as a stock to trade
with, or to purchase allies and foreign succours;
otherwise that very universal estimation is an incon-
venience which paper money is free from; since it
tends to deprive a country of even the quantity of
currency that should be retained as a necessary in-
strument of its internal commerce, and obliges it to
be continually on its guard in making and executing,
at great expense, the laws that are to prevent the
trade which exports it.

Paper money well funded has another great advan-
tage over gold and silver — its lightness of carriage
and the little room that is occupied by a great sum ;
whereby it is capable of being more easily and more

368 The Works of [1767

safely, because more privately, conveyed from place
to place. Gold and silver are not intrinsically of
equal value with iron, a metal in itself capable of
many more beneficial uses to mankind. Their value
rests chiefly in the estimation they happen to be in
among the generality of nations, and the credit given
to the opinion that that estimation will continue.
Otherwise a pound of gold would not be a real
equivalent for even a bushel of wheat. Any other
well-founded credit is as much an equivalent as gold
and silver, and in some cases more so, or it would
not be preferred by commercial people in different
countries. Not to mention again our own bank bills,
Holland, which understands the value of cash as well
as any people in the world, would never part with
gold and silver for credit (as they do when they put
it in their bank, from whence little of it is ever after-
wards drawn out)1 if they did not think and find the
credit a full equivalent.

The fifth reason is: "That debtors, in the Assem-
blies, make paper money with fraudulent views."
This is often said by the adversaries of paper money,
and if it has been the case in any particular colony,
that colony should, on proof of the fact, be duly pun-
ished. This, however, would be no reason for pun-
ishing other colonies, who have not so abused their
legislative powers. To deprive all the colonies of
the convenience of paper money, because it has been
charged on some of them that they have made it an
instrument of fraud, is as if all the India, bank, and

1 Perhaps Dr. Franklin had not at that time read what Sir James
Stewart says of the Amsterdam bank re-issuing its money. — B. V.

1767] Benjamin Franklin 369

other stocks and trading companies were to be abol-
ished, because there have been, once in an age, Mis-
sissippi and South Sea schemes and bubbles.

The sixth and last reason is: " That in the middle
colonies, where the credit of the paper money has been
best supported, the bills have never kept to their nomi-
nal value in circulation, but have constantly depreci-
ated to a certain degree, whenever the quantity has
been increased. ' ' If the rising of the value of any par-
ticular commodity wanted for exportation is to be
considered as a depreciation of the values of whatever
remains in the country, then the rising of silver
above paper to that height of additional value, which
its capability of exportation only gave, it may be
called a depreciation of the paper. Even here, as
bullion has been wanted or not wanted for exporta-
tion, its price has varied from 55. 2d. to 55. 8d per
ounce. This is near ten per cent. But was it ever
said or thought on such an occasion that all the bank
bills, and all the coined silver, and all the gold in the
kingdom, were depreciated ten per cent.? Coined
silver is now wanted here for change, and one per
cent, is given for it by some bankers; are gold and
bank notes therefore depreciated one per cent. ?

The fact in the middle colonies is really this: On
the emission of the first paper money a difference
soon arose between that and silver ; the latter having
a property the former had not, a property always in
demand in the colonies, to wit, its being fit for a re-
mittance. This property having soon found its value
by the merchants bidding on one another for it, and
a dollar thereby coming to be rated at eight shillings

VOL. IV.— 24.

370 The Works of [1767

in paper money of New York, and 75. 6d. in paper of
Pennsylvania, it has continued uniformly at those
rates in both provinces now near forty years without
any variation upon new emissions, though in Pennsyl-
vania the paper currency has at times increased from
£15,000, the first sum, to £600,000, or near it. Nor
has any alteration been occasioned by the paper
money in the price of the necessaries of life when
compared with silver. They have been for the
greatest part of the time no higher than before it was
emitted, varying only by plenty and scarcity, accord-
ing to the seasons, or by a less or greater foreign de-
mand. It has indeed been usual with the adversaries
of a paper currency to call every rise of exchange
with London a depreciation of the paper; but this
notion appears to be by no means just; for if the
paper purchases every thing but bills of exchange at
the former rate, and these bills are not above one
tenth of what is employed in purchases, then it may
be more properly and truly said that the exchange
has risen than that the paper has depreciated. And
as a proof of this, it is a certain fact that whenever
in those colonies bills of exchange have been dearer,
the purchaser has been constantly obliged to give
more in silver, as well as in paper, for them, the silver
having gone hand in hand with the paper at the rate
above mentioned; and therefore it might as well
have been said that the silver was depreciated.

There have been several different schemes for fur-
nishing the colonies with paper money, that should
not be a legal tender, viz. :

1. To form a bank, in imitation of the Bank of Eng-

I767] Benjamin Franklin 371

land, with a sufficient stock of cash to pay the bills on
sight.

This has been often proposed, but appears imprac-
ticable, under the present circumstances of the colony
trade; which, as is said above, draws all the cash to
Britian, and would soon strip the bank.

2. To raise a fund by some yearly tax, securely
lodged in the bank of England as it arises, which
should {during the term of years for which the paper
bills are to be current) accumulate to a sum sufficient
to discharge them all at their original value.

This has been tried in Maryland; and the bills so
funded were issued without being made a general legal
tender. The event was that, as notes payable in
time are naturally subject to a discount proportioned
to the time, so these bills fell at the beginning of the
term so low, as that twenty pounds of them became
worth no more than twelve pounds in Pennsylvania,
the next neighbouring province; though both had
been struck near the same time, at the same nominal
value, but the latter was supported by the general
legal tender. The Maryland bills, however, began to
rise as the term shortened, and towards the end recov-
ered their full value. But, as a depreciating currency
injures creditors, this injured debtors; and, by its
continually changing value, appears unfit for the pur-
pose of money, which should be as fixed as possible
in its own value; because it is to be the measure of
the value of other things.

3. To make the bills carry an interest sufficient to
support their value.

This too has been tried in some of the New Eng-

372 The Works of [1767

land colonies ; but great inconvenience was found to
attend it. The bills, to fit them for a currency, are
made of various denominations ; and some very low,
for the sake of change; there are of them from £10
down to 3d When they first come abroad, they pass
easily, and answer the purpose well enough for a few
months; but as soon as the interest becomes worth
computing, the calculation of it on every little bill, in
a sum between the dealer and his customers in shops,
warehouses, and markets, takes up much time, to the
great hindrance of business. This evil, however,
soon gave place to a worse; for the bills were in a
short time gathered up and hoarded; it being a very
tempting advantage to have money bearing interest,
and the principal all the while in a man's power,
ready for bargains that may offer ; which money out
on mortgage is not. By this means numbers of peo-
ple became usurers with small sums, who could not
have found persons to take such sums of them upon
interest, giving good security; and would therefore
not have thought of it; but would rather have em-
ployed the money in some business, if it had been
money of the common kind. Thus trade, instead of
being increased by such bills, is diminished; and by
their being shut up in chests, the very end of making
them (viz., to furnish a medium of commerce) is in a
great measure, if not totally, defeated.1

1 I understand that Dr. Franklin is the friend who assisted Governor
Pownall in drawing up a plan for a general paper currency for America,
to be established by the British government. See Pownall's Admin-
istration of the Colonies, 5th edition, pp. 199, 208. — B. V.

The paper money first issued by the colonial Assemblies was made a
legal tender. The excessive issues in some of the colonies caused a

1767] Benjamin Franklin 373

On the whole, no method has hitherto been formed
to establish a medium of trade, in lieu of money,
equal, in all its advantages, to bills of credit, funded
on sufficient taxes for discharging it, or on land se-
curity of double the value for repaying it at the end
of the term, and in the meantime made a general
legal tender. The experience of now near half a
century in the middle colonies has convinced them
of it among themselves, by the great increase of their
settlements, numbers, buildings, improvements, agri-
culture, shipping, and commerce, And the same ex-
perience has satisfied the British merchants, who

great depreciation in the value of the bills, and thus produced mis-
chievous consequences. To remedy the evil, an act of Parliament was
passed, prohibiting the colonies from issuing any more paper money,
which should be a legal tender. At the same time that this act re-
moved one difficulty, it raised up another. In the fluctuating state
of things in the colonies, the credit of the bills could not be sustained
in any degree, unless the people were required to take them at their
actual value. It then became a matter of importance, that Parliament
should provide some means for giving stability to a paper currency in
the colonies. Governor Pownall, in conjunction with Dr. Franklin,
proposed a plan for this object. Speaking of this proposal, Governor
Pownall says: "So far am I from assuming any merit in the invention
or framing of it, that I desire it may be considered as founded on what
hath been actually practised in Pennsylvania, by the good sense and
good policy of the Assembly of that province, with success and with
benefit to the public; that the particular proposal as it is now formed,
and applied to the present exigencies of America and Great Britain,
was drawn up some years ago, in conjunction with a friend of mine and
of the colonies. It was, by us, jointly proposed to government, under
successive administrations, in the years 1764, 1765, 1766, during which
time the publication was suspended."

The principal outlines of this plan were, that bills of credit to a cer-
tain amount should be printed in England, for the use of the colonies;
that a loan-office should be erected in each colony to issue bills, take
securities, and receive the payments; that the bills should be issued
for ten years, bearing interest at five per cent., one tenth part of the
sum borrowed to be paid annually, with the interest; and that they
should be a legal tender.

374 The Works of [1768

trade thither, that it has been greatly useful to them,
and not in a single instance prejudicial.

It is therefore hoped that, securing the full dis-
charge of British debts, which are payable here, and
in all justice and reason ought to be fully discharged
here, in sterling money, the restraint on the legal
tender within the colonies will be taken off ; at least
for those colonies that desire it, and where the mer-
chants trading to them make no objection to it.

CCCXI

TO WILLIAM FRANKLIN

London, 9 January, 1768.

Dear Son: — We have had so many alarms of
changes which did not take place, that just when I
wrote it was thought the ministry would stand
their ground. However, immediately after, the talk
was renewed, and it soon appeared that the Sunday
changes were actually settled. Mr. Conway resigns
and Lord Weymouth takes his place. Lord Gower
is made President of the Council in the room of Lord
Northington. Lord Shelburne is stripped of the
American business, which is given to Lord Hillsbor-
ough, as secretary of state for America, a new dis-
tinct department. Lord Sandwich, it is said, comes
into the post-office in his place. Several of the Bed-
ford party are now to come in.

How these changes may effect us, a little time will
show. Little at present is thought of but elections,
which gives me hope that nothing will be done

1768] Benjamin Franklin 375

against America this session, though the Boston
Gazette had occasioned some heats, and the Boston
Resolutions a prodigious clamor. I have endeavoured
to palliate matters for them as well as I can. ^ I send
you my manuscript of one paper, though I think you
take the Chronicle. The editor of that paper, one
Jones, seems a Grenvillian, or is very cautious, as you
will see by his corrections and omissions. He has
drawn the teeth and pared the nails of my paper, so
that it can neither scratch nor bite. It seems only to
paw and mumble. I send you also two other late
pieces of mine. There is another which I cannot

find.

I am told there has been a talk of getting me ap-
pointed under-secretary to Lord Hillsborough; but
with little likelihood, as it is a settled point here that
I am too much of an American.1 I am in very good
health, thanks to God. Your affectionate father,

B. Franklin.

CCCXII

TO JOSEPH GALLOWAY

London, 9 January, 1768.

Dear Sir:— I wrote to you by way of Boston, and
have little to add, except to acquaint you that some
changes have taken place since my last, which have
not the most promising aspect for America, several
of the Bedford party being come into employment

1 Had the position been offered to Franklin, and had he accepted it,
all our current histories of the United States, should they have been
written, would now read like the sheerest romances.

37$ The Works of [1768

again; a party that has distinguished itself by ex-
claiming against us on all late occasions. Mr. Con-
way, one of our friends, has resigned, and Lord
Weymouth takes his place. Lord Shelburne, another
friend, is stripped of the American part of the busi-
ness of his office, which now makes a distinct depart-
ment, in which Lord Hillsborough is placed. I do
not think this nobleman in general an enemy to
America, but in the affair of paper money he was
last winter strongly against us.

I did hope I had removed some of his prejudices
on that head, but am not certain. We have, however,
increased the cry for it here, and I believe shall at-
tempt to obtain the repeal of the act, though the Bos-
ton Gazette and their resolutions about manufactures
have hurt us much, having occasioned an immense
clamor here. I have endeavoured to palliate matters
for them as well as I can, and hope with some suc-
cess. For having, in a large company in which were
some members of Parliament, given satisfaction to
all, by what I alleged in explanation of the conduct of
the Americans, and to show that they were not quite
so unreasonable as they appeared to be, I was advised
by several present to make my sentiments public, not
only for the sake of America, but as it would be some
ease to our friends here, who are triumphed over a
good deal by our adversaries on the occasion. I
have accordingly done it in the enclosed paper.

I shall write you fully on other subjects very soon.
At present, I can only add my respects to the Com-
mittee, and that I am, dear Sir, your faithful humble
servant, B. Franklin.

1768] Benjamin Franklin 377

CCCXIII

CAUSES OF THE AMERICAN DISCONTENTS BEFORE 1768.1
The waves never rise but when the winds blow. — Prov.

Sir:— As the cause of the present ill-humor in
America, and of the resolutions taken there to pur-
chase less of our manufactures, does not seem to be
generally understood, it may afford some satisfaction
to your readers, if you give them the following short
historical state of facts.

From the time that the colonies were first consid-
ered as capable of granting aids to the crown, down
to the end of the last war, it is said that the constant
mode of obtaining those aids was by requisition
made from the crown, through its governors, to the
several assemblies, in circular-letters from the Secre-
tary of State, in his Majesty's name: setting forth
the occasion, requiring them to take the matter into
consideration, and expressing a reliance on their pru-
dence, duty, and affection to his Majesty's govern-
ment, that they would grant such sums, or raise such
numbers of men, as were suitable to their respective
circumstances.

The colonies being accustomed to this method,
have from time to time granted money to the crown,

1 This paper appeared in the London Chronicle of Jan. 7, 1768, and
was reprinted the same year as a postscript to a pamphlet entitled
Sentiments of America. For the circumstances which led to its pub-
lication see Franklin's letters to his son, dated Dec. 19, 1767, and Janu-
ary 9, 1768, and his letter to T. Wharton, Feb. 20, 1768. In the latter
letter to his son he complains that the editor of the Chronicle, "one
Jones," "has drawn the teeth and pared the nails of my paper, so that
it can neither scratch nor bite. It seems only to paw and mumble."

378 The Works of [1768

or raised troops for its service, in proportion to their
abilities; and during all the last war beyond their
abilities, so that considerable sums were returned
them yearly by Parliament, as they had exceeded
their proportion.

Had this happy method of requisition been con-
tinued (a method that left the King's subjects in
those remote countries the pleasure of showing their
zeal and loyalty, and of imagining that they recom-
mended themselves to their sovereign by the liber-
ality of their voluntary grants), there is no doubt but
all the money that could reasonably be expected to
be raised from them in any manner might have been
obtained, without the least heart-burning, offence,
or breach of the harmony of affections and interests
that so long subsisted between the two countries.

It has been thought wisdom in a government exer-
cising sovereignty over different kinds of people, to
have some regard to prevailing and established opinions
among the people to be governed, wherever such
opinions might, in their effects, obstruct or promote
public measures. If they tend to obstruct public
service, they are to be changed, if possible, before we
attempt to act against them; and they can only be
changed by reason and persuasion. But if public
business can be carried on without thwarting those
opinions; if they can be, on the contrary, made sub-
servient to it; they are not unnecessarily to be
thwarted, however absurd such popular opinions may
be in their nature.

This had been the wisdom of our government with
respect to raising money in the colonies. It was well

1768] Benjamin Franklin 379

known that the colonists universally were of opinion
that no money could be levied from English subjects
but by their own consent, given by themselves or
their chosen representatives; that, therefore, what-
ever money was to be raised from the people in the
colonies, must first be granted by their assemblies, as
the money raised in Britain is first to be granted by
the House of Commons; that this right of granting
their own money was essential to English liberty;
and that, if any man, or body of men, in which they
had no representative of their choosing, could tax
them at pleasure, they could not be said to have any
property, any thing they could call their own. But
as these opinions did not hinder their granting money
voluntarily and amply, whenever the crown by its
servants came into their assemblies (as it does into
its parliaments of Britain and Ireland) and demanded
aids, therefore that method was chosen, rather than
the hateful one of arbitrary taxes.

I do not undertake here to support these opinions
of the Americans; they have been refuted by a late
act of Parliament, declaring its own power; which
very Parliament, however, showed wisely so much
tender regard to those inveterate prejudices, as to re-
peal a tax that had militated against them. And
those prejudices are still so fixed and rooted in the
Americans, that it has been supposed not a single
man among them has been convinced of his error,
even by that act of Parliament.

The person, then, who first projected to lay aside
the accustomed method of requisition, and to raise
money on America by stamps, seems not to have

380 The Works of [1768

acted wisely, in deviating from that method (which
the colonists looked upon as constitutional), and
thwarting unnecessarily the fixed prejudices of so
great a number of the King's subjects. It was not,
however, for want of knowledge that what he was
about to do would give them offence; he appears
to have been very sensible of this, and apprehensive
that it might occasion some disorders; to prevent
or suppress which, he projected another bill that
was brought in the same session with the Stamp
Act, whereby it was to be made lawful for military
officers in the colonies to quarter their soldiers in
private houses.

This seemed intended to awe the people into a
compliance with the other act. Great opposition,
however, being raised here against the bill, by the
agents from the colonies and the merchants trading
thither (the colonists declaring that under such a
power in the army no one could look on his house as
his own, or think he had a home, when soldiers might
be thrust into it and mixed with his family at the
pleasure of an officer) , that part of the bill was dropt ;
but there still remained a clause, when it passed into
a law, to oblige the several assemblies to provide
quarters for the soldiers, furnishing them with firing,
bedding, candles, small beer or rum, and sundry other
articles, at the expense of the several provinces. And
this act continued in force when the Stamp Act was
repealed; though, if obligatory on the assemblies, it
equally militated against the American principle
above mentioned, that money is not to be raised on
English subjects without their consent.

1768] Benjamin Franklin 381

The colonies nevertheless, being put into high
good-humor by the repeal of the Stamp Act, chose to
avoid a fresh dispute upon the other, it being tem-
porary and soon to expire, never, as they hoped, to
revive again; and in the meantime they, by various
ways, in different colonies, provided for the quarter-
ing of the troops; either by acts of their own assem-
blies, without taking notice of the act of Parliament,
or by some variety or small diminution, as of salt and
vinegar, in the supplies required by the act; that
what they did might appear a voluntary act of their
own, and not done in due obedience to an act of
Parliament, which, according to their ideas of their
rights, they thought hard to obey.

It might have been well if the matter had then
passed without notice; but, a governor having writ-
ten home an angry and aggravating letter upon this
conduct in the Assembly of his province, the outed
proposer " of the Stamp Act and his adherents, then
in the opposition, raised such a clamor against Amer-
ica, as being in rebellion, and against those who had
been for the repeal of the Stamp Act, as having there-
by been encouragers of this supposed rebellion, that
it was thought necessary to enforce the quartering
act by another act of Parliament, taking away from
the province of New York, which had been the most
explicit in its refusal, all the powers of legislation, till
it should have complied with that act. The news of
which greatly alarmed the people everywhere in
America, as (it had been said) the language of such
an act seemed to them to be: Obey implicitly laws

1 Mr. George Grenville.

382 The Works of [1768

made by the Parliament of Great Britain to raise
money on you without your consent, or you shall
enjoy no rights or privileges at all.

At the same time, a person lately in high office x
projected the levying more money from America, by
new duties on various articles of our own manufac-
ture, as glass, paper, painters' colors, &c, appointing
a new board of customs, and sending over a set of
commissioners, with large salaries, to be established
at Boston, who were to have the care of collecting
those duties; which were by the act expressly men-
tioned to be intended for the payment of the salaries
of governors, judges, and other officers of the crown
in America; it being a pretty general opinion here,
that those officers ought not to depend on the people
there for any part of their support.

It is not my intention to combat this opinion. But
perhaps it may be some satisfaction to your readers,
to know what ideas the Americans have on the sub-
ject. They say then, as to governors, that they are
not like princes, whose posterity have an inheritance
in the government of a nation, and therefore an in-
terest in its prosperity ; they are generally strangers
to the provinces they are sent to govern; have no
estate, natural connexion or relation there, to give
them an affection for the country; that they come
only to make money as fast as they can; are some-
times men of vicious characters and broken fortunes,
sent by a minister merely to get them out of the way ;
that as they intend staying in the country no longer
than their government continues, and purpose to

1 Mr. Charles Townshend.

1 768] Benjamin Franklin 3%Z

leave no family behind them, they are apt to be re-
gardless of the good-will of the people, and care not
what is said or thought of them after they are gone.
Their situation, at the same time, gives them many
opportunities of being vexatious, and they are often
so, notwithstanding their dependence on the assem-
blies for all that part of their support that does not
arise from fees established by law; but would prob-
ably be much more so, if they were to be supported
by money drawn from the people without their con-
sent or good-will, which is the professed design of the
new act. That, if by means of these forced duties
government is to be supported in America, without
the intervention of the assemblies, their assemblies
will soon be looked upon as useless; and a governor
will not call them, as having nothing to hope from
their meeting, and perhaps something to fear from
their inquiries into, and remonstrances against, his
maladministration. That thus the people will be de-
prived of their most essential rights. That it being,
as at present, a governor's interest to cultivate the
good- will, by promoting the welfare, of the people he
governs, can be attended with no prejudice to the
mother country; since all the laws he may be pre-
vailed on to give his assent to are subject to revision
here, and, if reported against by the Board of Trade,
are immediately repealed by the crown ; nor dare he
pass any law contrary to his instructions, as he holds
his office during the pleasure of the crown, and his
securities are liable for the penalties of their bonds if
he contravenes those instructions. This is what they
say as to governors.

384 The Works of [1768

As to judges, they allege that, being appointed
from this country, and holding their commissions, not
during good behaviour, as in Britain, but during
pleasure, all the weight of interest or influence would
be thrown into one of the scales (which ought to be
held even) , if the salaries are to be paid out of duties
raised upon the people without their consent, and
independent of their assemblies' approbation or dis-
approbation of the judge's behaviour. That it is
true, judges should be free from all influence; and,
therefore, whenever government here will grant com-
missions to able and honest judges during good be-
haviour, the assemblies will settle permanent and
ample salaries on them during their commissions;
but, at present, they have no other means of getting
rid of an ignorant or an unjust judge (and some of
scandalous characters have, they say, been some-
times sent them) left, but by starving them out.

I do not suppose these reasonings of theirs will
appear here to have much weight. I do not produce
them with an expectation of convincing your readers.
I relate them merely in pursuance of the task I have
imposed on myself, to be an impartial historian of
American facts and opinions.

The colonists being thus greatly alarmed, as I said
before, by the news of the act for abolishing the legis-
lature of New York, and the imposition of these new
duties, professedly for such disagreeable purposes,
(accompanied by a new set of revenue officers, with
large appointments, which gave strong suspicions
that more business of the same kind was soon to
be provided for them, that they might earn their

1768] Benjamin Franklin 385

salaries,) began seriously to consider their situation;
and to revolve afresh in their minds grievances
which, from their respect and love for this country,
they had long borne, and seemed almost willing to
forget.

They reflected how lightly the interest of all Amer-
ica had been estimated here, when the interests of a
few of the inhabitants of Great Britain happened to
have the smallest competition with it. That the
whole American people was forbidden the advantage
of a direct importation of wine, oil, and fruit, from
Portugal, but must take them loaded with all the ex-
pense of a voyage one thousand leagues round about,
being to be landed first in England, to be re-shipped
for America; expenses amounting, in war time at
least, to thirty pounds per cent, more than otherwise
they would have been charged with; and all this,
merely that a few Portugal merchants in London
may gain a commission on those goods passing
through their hands (Portugal merchants, by the by,
that can complain loudly of the smallest hardships
laid on their trade by foreigners, and yet, even in the
last year, could oppose, with all their influence, the
giving ease to their fellow subjects laboring under so
heavy an oppression!). That, on a slight complaint
of a few Virginia merchants, nine colonies had been
restrained from making paper money, become ab-
solutely necessary to their internal commerce, from
the constant remittance of their gold and silver to
Britain.

But not only the interest of a particular body of
merchants, but the interest of any small body of

386 The Works of [1768

British tradesmen or artificers, has been found, they
say, to outweigh that of all the King's subjects in
the colonies. There cannot be a stronger natural
right than that of a man's making the best profit he
can of the natural produce of his lands, provided he
does not thereby hurt the state in general. Iron is
to be found everywhere in America, and the beaver
furs are the natural produce of that country. Hats,
and nails, and steel are wanted there as well as here.
It is of no importance to the common welfare of the
empire, whether a subject of the King's obtains his
living by making hats on this or that side of the
water. Yet the hatters of England have prevailed
to obtain an act in their own favor, restraining that
manufacture in America; in order to oblige the
Americans to send their beaver to England to be
manufactured, and purchase back the hats, loaded
with the charges of a double transportation. In the
same manner have a few nail-makers, and a still
smaller body of steel-makers (perhaps there are not
half a dozen of these in England), prevailed totally
to forbid by an act of Parliament the erecting of
slitting-mills, or steel-furnaces, in America; that the
Americans may be obliged to take all their nails for
their buildings, and steel for their tools, from these
artificers, under the same disadvantages.1

1 I shall here give the reader the note at the end of the fourth para-
graph of the Farmer's Seventh Letter, written by Mr. Dickinson. —
B. V.

"Many remarkable instances might be produced of the extraordi-
nary inattention with which bills of great importance, concerning
these colonies, have passed in Parliament; which is owing, as it is sup-
posed, to the bills being brought in, by the persons who have points to

i768] Benjamin Franklin 387

Added to these, the Americans remembered the act
authorizing the most cruel insult that perhaps was
ever offered by one people to another, that of empty-
ing our gaols into their settlements; Scotland too
having within these two years obtained the privilege
it had not before, of sending its rogues and villains
also to the plantations. I say, reflecting on these
things, they said one to another (their newspapers
are full of such discourses) :

"These people are not content with making a
monopoly of us, forbidding us to trade with any
other country of Europe, and compelling us to buy
every thing of them, though in many articles we
could furnish ourselves ten, twenty, and even to
fifty per cent, cheaper elsewhere; but now they
have as good as declared they have a right to tax
us ad libitum internally and externally ; and that our

carry, so artfully framed, that it is not easy for the members in general,
in the haste of business, to discover their tendency.

"The following instances show the truth of this remark.

"When Mr. Grenville, in the violence of reformation and innovation,
formed the 4th George III. ch. 15th, for regulating the American trade,
the word 'Ireland' was dropped in the clause relating to our iron and
lumber, so that we could send these articles to no other part of Europe,
but to Great Britain. This was so unreasonable a restriction, and so
contrary to the sentiments of the legislature, for many years before,
that it is surprising it should not have been taken notice of in the
House. However, the bill passed into a law. But when the matter
was explained, this restriction was taken off in a subsequent act.

" I cannot say how long after the taking off this restriction, as I have
not the acts, but I think in less than eighteen months, another act of
Parliament passed, in which the word ' Ireland ' was left out, as it had
been before. The matter, being a second time explained, was a
second time regulated.

"Now, if it be considered, that the omission mentioned, struck off,
with one word, so very great a part of our trade, it must appear re-
markable; and equally so is the method by which rice became an

38S The Works of [1768

constitutions and liberties shall all be taken away
if we do not submit to that claim.

"They are not content with the high prices at
which they sell us their goods, but have now begun
to enhance those prices by new duties ; and, by the
expensive apparatus of a new set of officers, appear
to intend an augmentation and multiplication of
those burdens that shall still be more grievous to us.
Our people have been foolishly fond of their super-
fluous modes and manufactures, to the impoverishing
our own country, carrying off all our cash, and load-
ing us with debt; they will not suffer us to restrain
the luxury of our inhabitants, as they do that of their
own, by laws; they can make laws to discourage or
prohibit the importation of French superfluities ; but
though those of England are as ruinous to us as the
French ones are to them, if we make a law of that
kind, they immediately repeal it.

enumerated commodity, and therefore could be carried to Great
Britain only.

"'The enumeration was obtained' (says Mr. Gee, on Trade, p. 32,)
' by one Cole, a captain of a ship employed by a company then trading
to Carolina; for several ships going from England thither, and pur-
chasing rice for Portugal, prevented the aforesaid captain of a loading.
Upon his coming home, he possessed one Mr. Lowndes, a member of
Parliament (who was frequently employed to prepare bills), with an
opinion, that carrying rice directly to Portugal was a prejudice to the
trade of England, and privately got a clause into an act to make it an
enumerated commodity; by which means he secured a freight to him-
self. But the consequence proved a vast loss to the nation.'

" I find that this clause, 'privately got into an act, for the benefit of
Captain Cole, to the vast loss of the nation,' is foisted into the 3d Anne,
ch. 5th, entitled, ' An Act for granting to her Majesty a further subsidy
on wines and merchandises imported'; with which it has no more
connexion, than with 34th Edward I., 34th and 35th of Henry VIII.,
or the 25th Charles II., which provide that no person shall be taxed
but by himself or his representatives."

I768] Benjamin Franklin 389

"Thus they get all our money from us by trade;
and every profit we can anywhere make by our fish-
eries, our produce, or our commerce, centres finally
with' them; but this does not signify. It is time,
then, to take care of ourselves by the best means in
our power. Let us unite in solemn resolution and en-
gagements with and to each other, that we will give
these new officers as little trouble as possible, by not
consuming the British manufactures on which they
are to levy the duties. Let us agree to consume no
more of their expensive gewgaws. Let us live fru-
gally, and let us industriously manufacture what we
can for ourselves; thus we shall be able honorably
to discharge the debts we already owe them; and
after that, we may be able to keep some money in
our country, not only for the uses of our internal
commerce, but for the service of our gracious sover-
eign, whenever he shall have occasion for it, and
think proper to require it of us in the old constitu-
tional manner. For, notwithstanding the reproaches
thrown out against us in their public papers and
pamphlets, notwithstanding we have been reviled in
their senate as rebels and traitors, we are truly a
loyal people. Scotland has had its rebellions, and
England its plots against the present royal family;
but America is untainted with those crimes; there is in
it scarce a man, there is not a single native of our
country, who is not firmly attached to his King by
principle and by affection.

" But a new kind of loyalty seems to be required
of us, a loyalty to Parliament ; a loyalty that is to ex-
tend,' it is said to a surrender of all our properties,

39° The Works of [1768

whenever a House of Commons, in which there is not
a single member of our choosing, shall think fit to
grant them away without our consent ; and to a pa-
tient suffering the loss of our privileges as English-
men, if we cannot submit to make such surrender.
We were separated too far from Britain by the ocean,
but we were united to it by respect and love ; so that
we could at any time freely have spent our lives and
little fortunes in its cause ; but this unhappy new sys-
tem of politics tends to dissolve those bands of union,
and to sever us for ever."

These are the wild ravings of the, at present, half-
distracted Americans. To be sure, no reasonable
man in England can approve of such sentiments, and,
as I said before, I do not pretend to support or justify
them; but I sincerely wish, for the sake of the manu-
factures and commerce of Great Britain, and for the
sake of the strength which a firm union with our
growing colonies would give us, that these people had
never been thus needlessly driven out of their senses.
I am yours, &c,

F. S.

CCCXIV

TO M. DALIBARD

London, 31 January, 1768.

Dear Sir: — I sent you some time since, Priestley's
History of Electricity, under the care of Mr. Molini,
bookseller on the Quay des Augustins. I hope it
got safe to Paris, and that you have reviewed it. I

1768] Benjamin Franklin 39 l

wish the reading of it may renew your taste for that
branch of philosophy, which is already indebted to
you as being the first of mankind that had the cour-
age to attempt drawing lightning from the clouds to
be subjected to your experiments.

In our return home, we were detained a week at
Calais by contrary winds and stormy weather which
was the more mortifying to me, when I reflected that
I might have enjoyed Paris and my friends there all
this time, and yet have been as soon at London.

As I became in arrear with my business by so long
an absence, I have been necessarily much occupied
since my return, and have therefore postponed from
time to time (and so long that I am now ashamed of
it) the purpose I had of writing soon to you, to
express the sense I have of your kindness to me when
a stranger at Paris, and of the many civilities I re-
ceived from you there and from Mrs. Dalibard, which
I assure you have made a lasting impression on my
memory. I beg you will both of you accept my
sincerest thanks and acknowledgments. The time I
spent in Paris, and in the improving conversation and
agreeable society of so many ingenious and learned
men, seems now to me like a pleasing dream, from
which I was only to be awakened by finding myself
at London.

With the greatest esteem and best wishes for your
health and happiness, I have the honor to be,

Dear Sir, &c,

B. Franklin.

392 The Works of [1768

CCCXV

TO MRS. DEBORAH FRANKLIN

London, 13 February, 1768.

My Dear Child: — I received your kind letter by
Captain Story, of November 19th, and a subsequent
one by Captain Falconer without date. I have re-
ceived also the Indian and buckwheat meal, that they
brought from you, with the apples, cranberries, and
nuts, for all which I thank you. They all prove
good, and the apples were particularly welcome to me
and my friends, as there happens to be scarce any of
any kind in England this year. We are much obliged
to the captains, who are so good as to bring these
things for us, without charging any thing for their
trouble.

I am much concerned for my dear sister's loss of
her daughter. It was kind in you to write a letter of
condolence. I have also written to her on the occa-
sion. I am not determined about bringing Sally over
with me, but am obliged to you for the kind manner
in which you speak of it, and possibly I may conclude
to do it.1 I am sorry you had so much trouble with

1 This was Sally Franklin, often mentioned, the daughter of Thomas
Franklin, a remote family connection. As this Thomas Franklin was
in narrow circumstances, Dr. Franklin took the charge of his daughter
for several years. In a letter to his sister, dated July 17th, 1 771, he
says: "Sally Franklin has lived with me these five years, a very good
girl, now sixteen. She is great-granddaughter of our father's brother
John, who was a dyer at Banbury in Oxfordshire, where our father
learned that trade of him, and where our grandfather Thomas lies
buried. I saw his grave-stone. Sally's father, John's grandson, is
now living at Lutterworth, in Leicestershire, where he follows the same
business, his father too being bred a dyer, as was our uncle Benjamin.

1768] Benjamin Franklin 393

that Nelson. By what is now said of her here, she
did not deserve the notice you took of her, or that
any credit should be given to her stories. I am afraid
she has made mischief in my family by her false-
hoods. I think your advice good, not to help any
one to servants. I shall never be concerned in such
business again ; I never was lucky in it.

My love to all our relations and friends, and to Mr.
and Mrs. Duffield, and to Mrs. Redman. I am much
pleased with her daughter's writing, particularly for
its correctness. I am now, and have been all this
winter, in very good health, thanks to God. I only
once felt a little admonition, as if a fit of the gout
would attack me, but it did not. Whether sick or
well, I am ever, my dear Debby, your affectionate
husband,

B. Franklin.

P. S. — I forgot to tell you that a certain very great
lady, the best woman in England, was graciously
pleased to accept some of your nuts, and to say they
were excellent. This is to yourself only.1

He is a widower, and Sally his only child. These two are the only de-
scendants of our grandfather Thomas now remaining in England, that
retain the name of Franklin." She was married in England, and did
not go to America as was proposed. — Sparks.

1 The following note to Lord and Lady Bathurst will explain the
playful allusion in this postscript:

"Dr. Franklin presents his respectful compliments to Lord Bathurst,
with some American nuts; and to Lady Bathurst, with some American
apples ; which he prays they will accept as a tribute from that country,
small indeed but voluntary."

394 The Works of [1768

CCCXVI

TO JOSEPH GALLOWAY

London, 17 February, 1768.

Dear Sir : — In mine of January 9th, I wrote to you
that I believed, notwithstanding the clamor against
America had been greatly increased by the Boston
proceedings, we should attempt this session to obtain
the repeal of the restraining act relating to paper
money. The change of the administration, with re-
gard to American affairs, which was agreed on some
time before the new secretary kissed hands and en-
tered upon business, made it impossible to go forward
with that affair, as the minister quitting that depart-
ment would not, and his successor could not, engage
in it; but now our friends the merchants have been
moving in it, and some of them have conceived
hopes, from the manner in which Lord Hillsborough
attended to their representations. It had been pre-
viously concluded among us, that if the repeal was to
be obtained at all, it must be proposed in the light of
a favor to the merchants of this country, and asked
for by them, not by the agents as a favor to America.
But, as my Lord had, at sundry times before he came
into his present station, discoursed with me on the
subject, and got from me a copy of my answer to his
report when at the head of the Board of Trade, which
some time since he thanked me for, and said he would
read again and consider carefully, I waited upon him
this morning, partly with intent to learn if he had
changed his sentiments.

We entered into the subject, and had a long con-

1768] Benjamin Franklin 395

versation upon it, in which all the arguments he used,
against the legal tender of paper money, were in-
tended to demonstrate, that it was for the benefit of
the people themselves to have no such money current
among them; and it was strongly his opinion, that,
after the experience of being without it a few years,
we should all be convinced of this truth, as he said
the New England colonies now were; they having
lately, on the rumor of an intended application for
taking off the restraint, petitioned here, that it might
be continued as to them. However, his Lordship
was pleased to say, that, if such application was made
for the three colonies of Pennsylvania, New Jersey,
and New York, as I proposed, it should have fair
play, he would himself give it no sort of opposition;
but he was sure it would meet with a great deal, and
he thought it could not succeed. He was pleased to
make me compliments upon my paper, assuring me
he had read it with a great deal of attention, that I
had said much more in favor of such a currency than
he thought could be said, and all he believed that the
subject would admit of; but that it had not on the
whole changed his opinion, any further than to induce
him to leave the matter now to the judgment of
others, and let it take its course, without opposing it,
as last year he had determined to have done.

I go into the city to-morrow to confer with the
merchants again upon it ; that, if they see any hopes,
we may at least try the event. But I own my ex-
pectations are now very slender, knowing as I do,
that nothing is to be done in Parliament, that is not a
measure adopted by ministry and supported by their

396 The Works of [1768

strength, much less any thing they are adverse to or
indifferent about.

I took the opportunity of discoursing with his
Lordship concerning our particular affair of the
change of government, gave him a detail of all pro-
ceedings hitherto, the delays it had met with, and its
present situation. He was pleased to say, he would
inquire into the matter, and would talk with me
further upon it. He expressed great satisfaction in
the good disposition that, he said, appeared now to
be general in America, with regard to government
here, according to the latest advices; and informed
me that he had by his Majesty's order wrote the most
healing letters to the several governors, which, if
shown to the assemblies, as he supposed they would
be, could not but confirm that good disposition. As
to the permission we want to bring wine, fruit, and
oil directly from Spain and Portugal, and to carry-
iron direct to foreign markets, it is agreed on all hands
that this is an unfavorable time to move in those
matters; George Grenville and those in the opposi-
tion, on every hint of the kind, making a great noise
about the Act of Navigation, that palladium of Eng-
land, as they call it, to be given up to rebellious
America, &c, &c, so that the ministry would not
venture to propose it, if they approved. I am to
wait on the secretary again next Wednesday, and
shall write you further what passes, that is material.

The Parliament have of late been acting an egre-
gious farce, calling before them the mayor and alder-
men of Oxford, for proposing a sum to be paid by
their old members on being re-chosen at the next

1768] Benjamin Franklin 397

election ; and sundry printers and brokers, for adver-
tising and dealing in boroughs, &c. The Oxford
people were sent to Newgate, and discharged, after
some days, on humble petition, and receiving the
Speaker's reprimand upon their knees. The House
could scarcely keep countenances, knowing as they
all do, that the practice is general. People say, they
mean nothing more than to beat down the price by a
little discouragement of borough jobbing, now that
their own elections are all coming on. The price in-
deed is grown exorbitant, no less than jour thousand
pounds for a member.

Mr. Beckford has brought in a bill for preventing
bribery and corruption in elections, wherein was a
clause to oblige every member to swear, on his ad-
mission into the House, that he had not directly or
indirectly given any bribe to any elector; but this
was so universally exclaimed against, as answering no
end but perjuring the members, that he has been
obliged to withdraw that clause. It was indeed a
cruel contrivance of his, worse than the gunpowder
plot ; for that was only to blow the Parliament up to

heaven, this to sink them all down to . Mr.

Thurlow opposed his bill by a long speech. Beck-
ford, in reply, gave a dry hit to the House, that is
repeated everywhere. "The honorable gentleman,"
says he, "in his learned discourse, gave us first one
definition of corruption, then he gave us another
definition of corruption, and I think he was about to
give us a third. Pray does that gentleman imagine
there is any member of this House that does not know
what corruption is? " which occasioned only a roar of

398 The Works of [1768

laughter, for they are so hardened in the practice,
that they are very little ashamed of it. This between
ourselves. I am with sincerest esteem, dear Sir, your
most obedient humble servant,

B. Franklin.

CCCXVII

TO CADWALLADER EVANS ■

London, 20 February, 1768.

Dear Sir: — I wrote you a few lines by Captain
Falconer, and sent you Dr. Watson's new piece of
Experiments in Inoculation, which I hope will be
agreeable to you.

In yours of November 20th, you mention the lead
in the worms of stills as a probable cause of the dry
belly-ache among punch-drinkers in our West Indies.
I had before acquainted Dr. Baker with a fact of that
kind, the general mischief done in the use of leaden
worms, when rum-distilling was first practised in New
England, which occasioned a severe law there against
them ; and he has mentioned it in the second part of
his piece not yet published. I have long been of
opinion that that distemper proceeds always from a
metallic cause only ; observing that it affects, among
tradesmen, those that use lead, however different
their trades, — as glaziers, letter-founders, plumbers,
potters, white-lead makers and painters; (from the
latter, it has been conjectured, it took its name colica

1 A physician in Philadelphia and member of the American Philo-
sophical Society.

1768] Benjamin Franklin 399

Pictonum, by the mistake of a letter, and not from its
being the disease of Poictou;) and, although the
worms of stills ought to be of pure tin, they are often
made of pewter, which has a great mixture in it of
lead.

The Boston people, pretending to interfere with the
manufactures of this country, make a great clamor
here against America in general. I have therefore
endeavoured to palliate matters a little in several
public papers. It would, as you justly observe, give
less umbrage if we meddled only with such manufac-
tures as England does not attend to. That of linen
might be carried on more or less in every family
(perhaps it can only do it in a family way), and silk,
I think, in most of the colonies. But there are many
manufactures that we cannot carry on to advantage,
though we were at entire liberty. And, after all, this
country is fond of manufactures beyond their real
value, for the true source of riches is husbandry.
Agriculture is truly productive of new wealth; manu-
facturers only change forms, and, whatever value they
give to the materials they work upon, they in the
meantime consume an equal value in provisions, &c.
So that riches are not increased by manufacturing;
the only advantage is, that provisions in the shape of
manufactures are more easily carried for sale to for-
eign markets. And where the provisions cannot be
easily carried to market, it is well to transform them
for our own use as well as foreign sale. In families
also, where the children and servants of families have
some spare time, it is well to employ it in making
something, and in spinning or knitting, &c, to gather

400 The Works of [1768

up the fragments (of time) that nothing may be lost,
for those fragments, though small in themselves,
amount to something great in the year, and the
family must eat, whether they work or are idle.

But this nation seems to have increased the num-
ber of its manufactures beyond reasonable bounds
(for there are bounds to every thing), whereby pro-
visions are now risen to an exorbitant price by the
demand for supplying home mouths; so that there
may be an importation from foreign countries; but
the expense of bringing provisions from abroad to
feed manufacturers here will so enhance the price of
the manufactures, that they may be made cheaper
where the provisions grow, and the mouths will go to
the meat.

I am, with thanks for your good wishes, dear Sir,

yours, &c,

B. Franklin.

CCCXVIII

TO THOMAS WHARTON

London, 20 February, 1768.

Dear Friend : — I received your favors of Novem-
ber 17th and 1 8th, with another dozen of excellent
wine, the manufacture of our friend Livezey. I
thank you for the care you have taken in forwarding
them, and for your kind good wishes that accompany
them.1

1 He wrote the same day to Mr. Livezey, as follows: "I received your
kind letter of November 1 8th, with a very welcome present of another
dozen of your wine. The former had been found excellent by many
good judges; my wine merchant in particular was very desirous of
knowing what quantity of it might be had, and at what price, to which

1768] Benjamin Franklin 401

The story you mention of secretary Conway's won-
dering what I could be doing in England, and that
he had not seen me for a considerable time, savours
strongly of the channel through which it came, and
deserves no notice. But, since his name is men-
tioned, it gives me occasion to relate what passed be-
tween us the last time I had the honor of conversing
with him. It was at court, when the late changes
were first rumored, and it was reported he was to
resign the secretary's office. Talking of America, I
said I was sorry to find that our friends were one after
another quitting the administration, that I was ap-
prehensive of the consequences, and hoped what I
heard of his going out was not true. He said it was
really true, the employment had not been of his
choice, he had never any taste for it, but had sub-
mitted to engage in it for a time, at the instance of
his friends, and he believed his removal could not be
attended with any ill consequences to America ; that
he was a sincere wellwisher to the prosperity of that
country as well as this, and hoped the imprudences of
either side would never be carried to such a height as
to create a breach of the union, so essentially neces-
sary to the welfare of both; that, as long as his
Majesty continued to honor him with a share in his
counsels, America should always find in him a friend,

I could give him no satisfaction. I only said that the grapes, being
uncultivated, were not very juicy; I apprehended, so many of them
must be required, and so much labor in gathering and pressing them,
to produce a little wine, that the price could not be very low. I
shall apply this parcel as I did the last, towards warming the hearts
of the friends of our country and well-wishers to the change of its
government."

VOL. IV. — 26.

402 The Works of [1768

&c. This I write, as it was agreeable to me to hear,
and I suppose will be so to you to read. For his
character has more in it of the frank honesty of the
soldier, than of the plausible insincerity of the
courtier; and therefore what he says is more to be
depended on.

The Proprietor's dislike to my continuing in Eng-
land, to be sure, is very natural ; as well as to the re-
peated choice of Assembly men, not his friends; and
probably he would, as they so little answer his pur-
poses, wish to see elections as well as agencies abol-
ished. They make him very unhappy, but it cannot
be helped.

The proceedings in Boston, as the news came just
upon the meeting of Parliament, and occasioned great
clamor here, gave me much concern. And as every
offensive thing done in America is charged upon all,
and every province, though unconcerned in it, suffers
in its interests through the general disgust given, and
the little distinction here made, it became necessary,
I thought, to palliate the matter a little for our own
sakes; and therefore I wrote the paper, which proba-
bly you have seen printed in the Chronicle of January
7th, and signed F. S. Yours affectionately,

B. Franklin.

CCCXIX

TO LORD KAMES

London, 28 February, 1768.

Dear Sir: — It gave me great pleasure to see my
dear good friend's name at the foot of a letter I re-

1768] Benjamin Franklin 403

ceived the other day, having been often uneasy at his
long silence, blaming myself as the cause by my own
previous backwardness and want of punctuality as a
correspondent. I now suppose (as in this he men-
tions nothing of it) that a long letter I wrote him
about this time twelvemonth, on the subject of the
disputes with America, did miscarry, or that his an-
swer to that letter miscarried, as I have never heard
from him since I wrote that letter.

I have long been of an opinion similar to that you
express, and think happiness consists more in small
conveniences or pleasures that occur every day, than
in great pieces of good fortune that happen but sel-
dom to a man in the course of his life. Thus I reckon
it among my felicities, that I can set my own razor,
and shave myself perfectly well; in which I have a
daily pleasure, and avoid the uneasiness one is some-
times obliged to suffer from the dirty fingers or bad
breath of a slovenly barber.

I congratulate you on the purchase of a new house
so much to your mind, and wish that you may long
inhabit it with comfort. The inconvenience you
mention of neighbouring smoke coming down the
vents, is not owing to any bad construction of the
vent down which it comes, and therefore not to be
remedied by any change of form. It is merely the
effect of a law of nature, whereby, whenever the out-
ward air is warmer than the walls of the vent, the air
included, being by those walls made colder, and of
course denser and heavier than an equal column of
the outward air, descends into the room, and in de-
scending draws other air into the vent above to

404 The Works of [1768

supply its place ; which, being in its turn cooled and
condensed by the cooler walls of the vent, descends
also, and so a current downward is continued during
the continuance of such difference in temperament
between the outward air and the walls of the vent.

When this difference is destroyed, by the outward
air growing cooler, and the walls growing warmer,
the current downward ceases ; and when the outward
air becomes still colder than the walls, the current
changes and moves from below upward, the warmer
walls rarefying the air they include, and thereby mak-
ing it so much lighter than a column of the outward
air of equal height, that it is obliged to give way to
the other's superior weight and rise, is succeeded by
colder air, which being warmed and rarefied in its
turn, rises also, and so the upward current is con-
tinued. In summer, when fires are not made in the
chimneys, the current generally sets downward from
nine or ten in the morning during all the heat of the
day, till five or six in the afternoon, then begins to
hesitate, and afterwards to set upward during the
night, continuing till about nine in the morning, then
hesitating for some time before it again sets down-
ward for the day. This is the general course, with
some occasional variation of hours, according to the
length of days or changes of weather.

Now when the air of any vent is in this descending
state, if the smoke issuing from a neighbouring vent
happens to be carried over it by the wind, part will
be drawn in and brought down into the room. The
proper remedy then is to close the opening of the
chimney in the room by a board so fitted that little

1768] Benjamin Franklin 405

or no air can pass, whereby the currents above-men-
tioned will be prevented; this board to remain dur-
ing the summer, and when fires are not made in the
chimney. Chimneys that have fires in them daily are
not subject to this inconvenience, the walls of their
vents being kept too warm to occasion any downward
current during the hours between the going out of one
fire and the kindling of another. And indeed, in sum-
mer, those vents that happen to go up close joined
with the kitchen vent, are generally kept so warm
by that as to be free from the downward current, and
therefore free from what you call neighbour smoke.

The Philadelphia grate which you mention is a very
good thing, if you could get one that is rightly made,
and a workman skilful in putting them up. Those
generally made and used here are much hurt by fan-
cied improvements in their construction, and I can-
not recommend them. As fuel with you is cheap and
plenty, a saving in it is scarce an object. The slid-
ing plates (of which I sent a model to Sir Alexander
Dick) are, in my opinion, the most convenient for
your purpose, as they keep a room sufficiently warm,
are simple machines, easily fixed, and their manage-
ment easily conceived and understood by servants.

I shall leave Europe with much greater regret, if
I cannot first visit you and my other friends in Scot-
land. I promise myself this happiness, but am not
yet clear that I shall have time for it. Your kind
invitation is extremely obliging.

With sincere esteem, I am, my dear friend,
Yours most affectionately,

B. Franklin.

4o6 The Works of [1768

CCCXX

PROM JOSEPH GALLOWAY TO B. FRANKLIN

Philadelphia, io March, 1768.

Dear Sir: — I enclose this in a packet sent by the
Committee of Correspondence, containing the mes-
sages which passed between the two Houses of legis-
lature at their last sitting. By them you will be able
to form a proper judgment of the affairs of this
province, which, in the opinion of all good men here,
are at length reduced to the most desperate circum-
stances. All the mischiefs we have long expected, if
not come to pass, are now in full prospect. We have
long seen that the powers of government, united in
the same hands, with immense property, would neces-
sarily be attended with many inconveniences both to
the crown and the subject; and that those powers,
vested in the feeble hands of private subjects, would
prove too weak to support his Majesty's authority, or
to give safety to his people. The first will ever
naturally lead to acts of injustice, ambition, and
oppression; and these things, in private men, will
more especially beget disrespect, and that disrespect
soon ripen into contempt; the consequence whereof
in this province is, we have the name of a govern-
ment, but no safety or protection under it. We have
laws without being executed, or even feared or re-
spected. We have offenders, but no punishment.
We have a magistracy, but no justice; and a gover-
nor, but no government. And, you well know, we
possess the warmest allegiance to our sovereign and

1768] Benjamin Franklin 4°7

our mother country ; and yet our persons and estates
are every hour liable to the ravages of the licentious
and lawless, without any hope of defence against
them.

The impunity with which offenders escape is a per-
petual encouragement to the licentious and wicked to
commit new offences. This day an account arrived
from Lancaster that two soldiers, sent with de-
spatches from the commanding officer at Fort Pitt,
were attacked in Paxton township, their letters taken
from them, one of which was immediately destroyed
after being opened and read; the rest opened, but
re-delivered. I have seen the opened letters which
were not destroyed. What was the nature or conse-
quence of the letter destroyed, none can tell. Take
a view, dear Sir, of these facts, with what you know
has heretofore passed in the government, and add to
them the declaration of our governor, that he can do
no more in his station towards bringing offenders to
justice than issuing a proclamation and writing a few
mild letters to his magistracy, and tell me whether
you think we can believe ourselves, or our estates,
safe under the present government. I do most can-
didly assure you, could I convert my estate into
personality, without great loss, I should immediately
remove it with my family into a government where
I could reasonably expect they would be safe from
violation. In this, it is the opinion of all who are
active in supporting the honor of the government and
the authority of the crown, that their lives and
property are in great jeopardy and danger.

Under these circumstances, the Assembly think it

408 The Works of [1768

their indispensable duty to acquaint his Majesty and

ministry of the state of the province. For which

purpose the papers are sent to the agents, and they

are ordered to prosecute the petitions for a change;

in hopes, that our distracted and distressed situation

will draw his Majesty's attention and compassion so

far towards us, as to take the government under his

immediate direction.

It gives me pleasure to find a new establishment

is made for American affairs only. May we not hope

for more attention to our unhappy circumstances,

and especially under the nobleman who is at its head?

I am, &c,

Joseph Galloway.

CCCXXI

TO WILLIAM FRANKLIN

London, 13 March, 1768.

Dear Son:— I have received, all together, your
letters of January 6th, 21st, and 2 2d. It had been a
great while that I had not heard from you. The
purpose of settling the new colonies seems at present
to be dropped, the change of American administra-
tion not appearing favorable to it. There seems
rather to be an inclination to abandon the posts in
the back country as more expensive than useful ; but
counsels are so continually fluctuating here that
nothing can be depended on. The new secretary, my
Lord Hillsborough, is, I find, of opinion that the
troops should be placed, the chief part of them, in

1768] Benjamin Franklin 409

Canada and Florida, only three battalions to be quar-
tered in New York, New Jersey, and Pennsylvania;
and that Forts Pitt, Oswego, Niagara, &c., should be
left to the colonies to garrison and keep up, if they
think it necessary, for the protection of their trade.
Probably his opinion may be followed, if the new
changes do not produce other ideas.

As to my own sentiments, I am weary of suggesting
them to so many different inattentive heads, though
I must continue to do it while I stay among them.
The letters from Sir William Johnson, relating to
the boundary, were at last found, and orders were
sent over about Christmas for completing the pur-
chase and settlement of it. My Lord Hillsborough
has promised me to send duplicates by this packet,
and urge the speedy execution, as we represented to
him the danger, that these dissatisfactions of the In-
dians might produce a war. But I can tell you there
are many here to whom the news of such a war would
give pleasure ; who speak of it as a thing to be wished ;
partly as a chastisement to the colonies, and partly
to let them feel the want of protection from this
country, and pray for it. For it is imagined that we
could not possibly defend ourselves against the In-
dians without such assistance; so little is the state
of America understood here.

My Lord Hillsborough mentioned the Farmer's
Letters to me, said he had read them, that they were
well written, and he believed he could guess who was
the author, looking in my face at the same time as if
he thought it was me. He censured the doctrines as
extremely wild. I have read them as far as No. 8.

4io The Works of [i768

I know not if any more have been published. I
should have thought they had been written by Mr.
Delancey, not having heard any mention of the others
you point out as joint authors. I am not yet master
of the idea these and the New England writers have
of the relation between Britain and her colonies. I
know not what the Boston people mean by the " sub-
ordination" they acknowledged in their Assembly to
Parliament, while they deny its powers to make laws
for them, nor what bounds the Farmer sets to the
power he acknowledges in Parliament to "regulate
the trade of the colonies," it being difficult to draw
lines between duties for regulation and those for
revenue; and if the Parliament is to be the judge, it
seems to me that establishing such principles of dis-
tinction will amount to little.

The more I have thought and read on the subject,
the more I find myself confirmed in opinion that
no middle doctrine can be well maintained, I mean
not clearly with intelligible arguments. Something
might be made of either of the extremes : that Parlia-
ment has a power to make all laws for us, or that it
has a power to make no laws for us; and I think the
arguments for the latter more numerous and weighty,
than those of the former. Supposing that doctrine
established, the colonies would then be so many sepa-
rate states, only subject to the same king, as England
and Scotland were before the union. And then the
question would be, whether a union like that with
Scotland would or would not be advantageous to the
whole. I should have no doubt of the affirmative,
being fully persuaded that it would be best for the

1768] Benjamin Franklin 411

whole, and that though particular parts might find
particular disadvantages in it, they would find greater
advantages in the security arising to every part from
the increased strength of the whole. But such union
is not likely to take place, while the nature of our
present relation is so little understood on both sides
of the water, and sentiments concerning it remain so
widely different.

As to the farmers combating, as you say they
intend to do, my opinion, that the Parliament might
lay duties though not impose internal taxes, I shall
not give myself the trouble to defend it. Only to
you I may say that not only the Parliament of
Britain, but every state in Europe, claims and exer-
cises a right of laying duties on the exportation of
its own commodities to foreign countries. A duty is
paid here on coals exported to Holland, and yet
England has no right to lay an internal tax on
Holland. All goods brought out of France to Eng-
land, or any other country, are charged with a small
duty in France, which the consumers pay, and yet
France has no right to tax other countries. And in
my opinion the grievance is not that Britain puts
duties upon her own manufactures exported to us,
but that she forbids us to buy the like manufactures
from any other country. This she does, however, in
virtue of her allowed right to regulate the commerce
of the whole empire, allowed I mean by the Farmer,
though I think whoever would dispute that right
might stand upon firmer ground, and make much
more of the argument ; but my reasons are too many
and too long for a letter.

412 The Works of [1768

Mr. Grenville complained in the House that the
governors of New Jersey, New Hampshire, East and
West Florida had none of them obeyed the orders
sent them to give an account of the manufactures
carried on in their respective provinces. Upon hear-
ing this, I went after the House was up, and got a
sight of the reports made by the other governors.
They are all much in the same strain, that there are
no manufactures of any consequence; in Massachu-
setts a little coarse woollen only, made in families for
their own wear ; glass and linen have been tried and
failed. Rhode Island, Connecticut, and New York
much the same. Pennsylvania has tried a linen
manufactory, but it is dropped, it being imported
cheaper; there is a glasshouse in Lancaster county,
but it makes only a little coarse ware for the country
neighbours. Maryland is clothed all with English
manufactures. Virginia the same, except that in
their families they spin a little cotton of their own
growing. South Carolina and Georgia none. All
speak of the dearness of labor, that makes manufac-
tures impracticable. Only the governor of North
Carolina parades with a large manufacture in his
country, that may be useful to Britain, of pine boards;
they having fifty sawmills on one river.

These accounts are very satisfactory here and in-
duce the Parliament to despise and take no notice of
the Boston resolutions. I wish you would send your
account before the meeting of next Parliament. You
have only to report a glasshouse for coarse window-
glass and bottles, and some domestic manufactures
of linen and woollen for family use, that do not half

1768] Benjamin Franklin 413

clothe the inhabitants, all the finer goods coming
from England and the like. I believe you will be
puzzled to find any other, though I see great puffs in
the papers.

The Parliament is up, and the nation in a ferment
with the new elections. Great complaints are made
that the natural interests of country gentlemen in
their neighbouring boroughs is overborne by the
moneyed interests of the new people, who have got
sudden fortunes in the Indies, or as contractors.
Four thousand pounds is now the market price for a
borough. In short, this whole venal nation is now
at market, will be sold for about two millions, and
might be bought out of the hands of the present
bidders (if he would offer half a million more) by
the very Devil himself.

I shall wait on Lord Hillsborough again next

Wednesday, on behalf of the sufferers by Indian and

French depredations, to have an allowance of lands

out of any new grant made by the Indians, so long

solicited, and perhaps still to be solicited, in vain. I

am your affectionate father,

B. Franklin.

P. S. — I dined yesterday with General Monckton,
Major Gates, Colonel Lee,1 and other officers, who
have served in and are friends of America. Monck-
ton inquired kindly after your welfare.

1 Afterwards General Gates, and General Charles Lee, of the Amer-
ican Continental Army.

414 The Works of [1768

CCCXXII

TO THE COMMITTEE OF CORRESPONDENCE IN PENN-
SYLVANIA

London. 13 March. 176S.

Gentlemen : — On receipt of your letter of Januarv
20th. Mr. Jackson and myself waited on Lord Hills-
borough, the new Secretary of State for American
affairs, and communicated to him the contents, press-
ing the necessity of enforcing the orders already sent
to Sir William Johnson, for immediately settling the
affair of the boundary line with the Indians. His
Lordship was pleased to assure us that he would
cause duplicates of the orders to be forwarded by
this packet, and urge the completion of them.

We communicated also the copy of General Gage's
letter, and the messages that had passed between the
governor and the House thereupon. His Lordship
acquainted us that a letter from Governor Perm had
been shown him by the Proprietor, importing that
a horrid murder had lately been committed on the
Indians, upon which the governor had issued a pro-
clamation for apprehending the murderer; and that a
bill was under his and the Council's consideration to
prevent further settlements on Indian lands. But
his Lordship remarked that these messages had not
been communicated to him by the Proprietor.

Government here begins to grow tired of the enor-
mous expense of Indian affairs, and of maintaining
posts in the Indian country ; and it is now talked of,
as a proper measure, to abandon these posts, demol-
ishing all but such as the colonies ma}* think fit to

1768] Benjamin Franklin 415

keep up at their own expense ; and also to return the
management of their own Indian affairs into the
hands of the respective provinces as formerly. What
the result will be is uncertain, counsels here being so
continually fluctuating. But I have urged often that,
after taking those affairs out of our hands, it seems
highly incumbent on the ministry not to neglect them,
but to see that they are well managed, and the In-
dians kept in peace. I think, however, that we should
not too much depend on their doing this, but look
to the matter a little ourselves, taking every oppor-
tunity of conciliating the affections of the Indians, by
seeing that they always have justice done them, and
sometimes kindness. For I can assure you, that here
are not wanting people who, though not now in the
ministry, no one knows how soon they may be; and,
if they were ministers, would take no step to prevent
an Indian war in the colonies ; being of opinion, which
they express openly, that it would be a very good
thing, in the first place, to chastise the colonists for
their undutifulness, and then to make them sensible
of the necessity of protection by the troops of this
country.

Mr. Jackson, being now taken up with his election
business, will hardly have time to write by this op-
portunity. But he joins with me in respects to you
and the Assembly, and assurances of our most faith-
ful services. I am, Gentlemen, your most obedient
and most humble servant,

B. Franklin.

4i 6 The Works of [i 766-1 768

CCCXXIII

walpole's grant

Some time after Dr. Franklin went to England on his
second mission, as agent for Pennsylvania, a project was
formed in America, originating with Sir William Johnson,
Governor Franklin, and others, for settling a new colony
in the Ohio country. They wrote to Dr. Franklin, re-
questing him to use his influence to procure a grant from
the crown for this purpose. A company was formed, at
the head of which was Mr. Thomas Walpole, a banker
in London, from whom the tract of land took its name.

From letters written by Dr. Franklin to his son on this
subject, the following extracts were found among Sir
William Johnson's papers. The grant was to be divided
into seventy-two shares. The petitions were addressed
to the Board of Trade, and to the King in Council, by
Mr. Walpole and his associates. The project encoun-
tered much opposition, and met with delay; but was
finally approved, and the grant ratified in 1772. The
revolutionary troubles which followed, however, defeated
the plan. Pending its consideration, Lord Hillsborough
wrote for the Board of Trade a report against it. Frank-
lin's masterly answer to this report is entitled Settlement
on the Ohio River, see infra.

May 10, 1766. — I like the project of a colony in
the Illinois country, and will forward it to my utmost
here.

Aug. 25, 1766. — I can now only add that I will
endeavour to accomplish all that you and our friends
desire relating to the settlement westward.

1766-1768] Benjamin Franklin 4J7

Sept. 12, 1766. — I have just received Sir William's
open letter to Secretary Conway, recommending your
plan for a colony in the Illinois, which I am glad of.
I have closed and sent it to him. He is not now in
that department; but it will of course go to Lord
Shelburne, whose good opinion of it I have reason to
hope for; and I think Mr. Conway was rather against
distant posts and settlements in America. We have,
however, suffered a loss in Lord Dartmouth, who, I
know, was inclined to a grant there in favor of the
soldiery, and Lord Hillsborough is said to be terribly
afraid of dispeopling Ireland. General Lyman has
been long here soliciting such a grant, and will readily
join the interest he has made with ours, and I should
wish for a body of Connecticut settlers, rather than
all from our frontiers. I purpose waiting on Lord
Shelburne on Tuesday, and hope to be able to send
you his sentiments by Falconer, who is to sail about
the 20th.

A good deal, I imagine, will depend on the account,
when it arrives, of Mr. Croghan's negotiation in that
country. This is an affair I shall seriously set about ;
but there are such continual changes here, that it is
very discouraging to all applications to be made to
the ministry. I thought the last set well established,
but they are broken and gone. The present set are
hardly thought to stand very firm, and God only
knows whom we are to have next.

The plan is, I think, well drawn, and I imagine Sir
William's approbation will go a great way in recom-
mending it, as he is much relied on in all affairs that
may have any relation to the Indians. Lord Adam

VOL. IV. — 27.

418 The Works of [1766-1768

Gordon is not in town, but I shall take the first op-
portunity of conferring with him. I thank the Com-
pany for their willingness to take me in, and one or
two others that I may nominate. I have not yet
concluded whom to propose it to; but I suppose
our friend Sargent should be one. I wish you had
allowed me to name more, as there will be in the pro-
posed country, by my reckoning, near sixty-three
millions of acres, and therefore enough to content
a great number of reasonable people, and by num-
bers we might increase the weight of interest here.
But perhaps we shall do without.

Sept. 27, 1766. — I have mentioned the Illinois af-
fair to Lord Shelburne. His Lordship had read
your plan for establishing a colony there, recom-
mended by Sir William Johnson, and said it appeared
to him a reasonable scheme, but he found it did not
quadrate with the sentiments of people here ' ; that
their objections to it were, the distance, which would
make it of little use to this country, as the expense
on the carriage of goods would oblige the people to
manufacture for themselves; that it would for the
same reason be difficult both to defend it and to gov-
ern it ; that it might lay the foundation of a power in
the heart of America, which in time might be trou-
blesome to the other colonies, and prejudicial to our
government over them ; and that people were wanted
both here and in the already settled colonies, so that
none could be spared for a new colony. These argu-
ments, he said, did not appear of much weight, and I

1 I fancy, but am not certain, that his Lordship meant Lord Hills-
borough, who, I am told, is not favorable to new settlements.

1 766-1 768] Benjamin Franklin 4J9

endeavoured by others to invalidate them entirely.
But his Lordship did not declare whether he would
or would not promote the undertaking; and we are
to talk further upon it.

I communicated to him two letters of Mr. Cro-
ghan's, with his journal, and one or two of yours on
that subject, which he said he would read and con-
sider; and I left with him one of Evans's maps of
the middle colonies, in the small-scale part of which I
had marked with a wash of red ink the whole country
included in your boundaries. His Lordship re-
marked that this would coincide with General Ly-
man's project, and that they might be united.

Sept. 30, 1766. — I have just had a visit from Gen-
eral Lyman, and a good deal of conversation on the
Illinois scheme. He tells me that Mr. Morgan, who
is under-secretary of the Southern department, is
much pleased with it ; and we are to go together to
talk to him concerning it.

Oct. 11, 1766. — I was again with Lord Shelburne a
few days since, and said a good deal to him on the
affair of the Illinois settlement. He was pleased to
say he really approved of it ; but intimated that every
new proposed expense for America would meet with
great difficulty here, the treasury being alarmed and
astonished at the growing charges there, and the
heavy accounts and drafts continually brought in
from thence. That Major Farmer, for instance, had
lately drawn for no less than thirty thousand pounds
extraordinary charges, on his going to take posses-
sion of the Illinois; and that the superintendents,
particularly the southern one, began also to draw

42o The Works of [i 766-1 768

very largely. He spoke, however, very handsomely
of Sir William on many accounts.

Nov. 8, 1766. — Mr. Jackson is now come to town.
The ministry have asked his opinion and advice on
your plan of a colony in the Illinois, and he has just
sent me to peruse his answer in writing, in which he
warmly recommends it, and enforces it by strong
reasons; which gives me great pleasure, as it corrob-
orates what I have been saying on the same topic,
and from him appears less to be suspected of some
American bias.

Feb. 14, 1767. — Great changes being expected
keeps men's minds in suspense, and obstructs public
affairs of every kind. It is therefore not to be won-
dered at that so little progress is made in our Amer-
ican schemes of the Illinois grant and retribution for
Indian losses.

June 13, 1767. — The Illinois affair goes forward
but slowly. Lord Shelburne told me again last week
that he highly approved of it, but others were not
of his sentiments, particularly the Board of Trade.
Lyman is almost out of patience, and now talks of
carrying out his settlers without leave.

Aug. 28, 1767. — Last week I dined at Lord Shel-
burne's, and had a long conversation with him and
Mr. Conway (there being no other company) on the
subject of reducing the American expenses. They
have it in contemplation to return the management
of Indian affairs into the hands of the several pro-
vinces on which the nations border, that the colonies
may bear the charge of treaties, and the like, which
they think will then be managed more frugally, the

1766-1768] Benjamin Franklin 421

treasury being tired with the immense drafts of the
superintendents .

I took the opportunity of urging it as one mode of
saving expense in supporting the out-posts, that a
settlement should be made in the Illinois country,
expatiated on the various advantages, namely, fur-
nishing provisions cheaper to the garrisons, securing
the country, retaining the trade, raising a strength
there which, on occasions of a future war, might eas-
ily be poured down the Mississippi upon the lower
country, and into the Bay of Mexico, to be used
against Cuba, the French Islands, or Mexico itself.
I mentioned your plan, its being approved by Sir
William Johnson, and the readiness and ability of the
gentlemen concerned to carry the settlement into ex-
ecution, with very little expense to government. The
secretaries appeared finally to be fully convinced, and
there remained no obstacle but the Board of Trade,
which was to be brought over privately before the
matter should be referred to them officially. In case
of laying aside the superintendents, a provision was
thought of for Sir William Johnson. He will be
made governor of the new colony.

Oct. 9, 1767. — I returned last night from Paris, and
just now hear that the Illinois settlement is approved
of in the Cabinet Council, so far as to be referred to
the Board of Trade for their opinion, who are to
consider it next week.

Nov. 13, 1767. — Since my return, the affair of the
Illinois settlement has been renewed. The King in
Council referred the proposal to the Board of Trade,
who called for the opinion of the merchants on two

422 The Works of [i 766-1 768

points, namely : whether the settlement of colonies in
the Illinois country and at Detroit might not con-
tribute to promote and extend the commerce of Great
Britain ; and whether the regulation of Indian trade
might not best be left to the several colonies that
carry on such trade ; both which questions they con-
sidered at a meeting where Mr. Jackson and I were
present, and answered in the affirmative unanimously,
delivering their report accordingly to the Board. We
shall know in a few days what report the Board will
make to the King in Council. Enclosed I send you
the notice I received from the Board to attend the
first call with the merchants. You must know, gov-
ernment here is quite tired of having the manage-
ment of Indian affairs, the superintendents drawing
for such immense sums to be given in presents to the
Indians ; who, nevertheless, they say, are not kept in
so good temper as when every colony managed the
neighbouring Indians, and put the crown to no ex-
pense. It seems, therefore, the present inclination
to drop the superintendencies and provide for Sir
William in some other way; but whether they will
finally resolve on this is rather uncertain; for they
seem afraid of changing any thing in settled meas-
ures, lest something should go wrong, and the oppo-
sition make an advantage of it against them. The
merchants, to a man, disliked the plan of regulating
the trade under the superintendents, and speak
strongly against it. The plan I think I have seen
in your hands, as proposed by the Board of Trade.

Nov. 25, 1767. — As soon as I received Mr. Gallo-
way's, Mr. Samuel Wharton's, and Mr. Croghan's

1766-1768] Benjamin Franklin 423

letters on the subject of the boundary, I communicate
them to Lord Shelburne. He invited me the next
day to dine with him. Lord Clare was to have been
there, but did not come. There was nobody but
Mr. Maclean. My Lord knew nothing of the bound-
ary's having been agreed on by Sir William; had
sent the letters to the Board of Trade, directing
search to be made there for Sir William's letters; and
ordered Mr. Maclean to search the secretary's office,
who found nothing. We had much discourse about
it, and I pressed the importance of despatching orders
immediately to Sir William to complete the affair.
His Lordship asked who was to make the purchase,
that is, who should be at the expense. I said that if
the line included any lands within the grants of the
charter colonies, they should pay the purchase money
of such proportion. If any within the proprietary
grants, they should pay their proportion. But what
was within royal governments, where the King
granted the lands, the crown should pay for that pro-
portion. His Lordship was pleased to say he thought
this reasonable. He finally desired me to go to Lord
Clare as from him, and urge the business there, which
I undertook to do.

Among other things at this conversation, we talked
of the new settlements. His Lordship told me he had
himself drawn up a paper of reasons for those settle-
ments which he laid before the King in Council ; ac-
quainting them that he did not offer them merely as
his own sentiments ; they were what he had collected
from General Amherst, Dr. Franklin, and Mr. Jack-
son, three gentlemen that were allowed to be the best

424 The Works of [1766-1768

authorities for any thing that related to America. I
think he added that the Council seemed to approve of
the design; I know it was referred to the Board of
Trade, who, I believe, have not yet reported on it, and
I doubt will report against it.

I waited next morning on Lord Clare, and pressed
the matter of the boundary closely upon him. He
said they could not find that they had ever received
any letters from Sir William concerning it, but were
searching farther ; agreed to the necessity of settling
it, but thought there would be some difficulty about
who should pay the purchase money; for that this
country was already so loaded, it would bear no more.
We then talked of the new colonies. I found he was
inclined to think one near the mouth of the Ohio
might be of use in securing the country, but did not
much approve that at Detroit. And, as to the trade,
he imagined it would be of little consequence if we
had it all, but supposed our traders would sell the
peltry chiefly to the French and Spaniards at New
Orleans, as he heard they had hitherto done. Pray
tell me, if you know, whether that has been the case
with regard to the skins belonging to our friends
B. W. & M.

March 13, 1768. — The purpose of settling the new
colonies seems at present to be dropt, the change of
American administration not appearing favorable to
it. There seems rather an inclination to abandon the
posts in the back country, as more expensive than
useful. But counsels are so continually fluctuating
here, that nothing can be depended on. The new
secretary, Lord H., is, I find, of opinion that the

1768] Benjamin Franklin 425

troops should be placed, the chief part of them, in
Canada and Florida, only three battalions to be quar-
tered in New York, New Jersey, and Pennsylvania;
and that Forts Pitt, Niagara, Oswego, &c, should be
left to the colonies to garrison and keep up, if they
think it necessary for the protection of their trade.
Probably his opinion may be followed, if new changes
do not produce other ideas. The letters from Sir
William Johnson, relating to the boundary, were at
last found, and orders were sent over, about Christ-
mas, for completing the purchase and settlement of
the difference about it. My Lord H. has promised
me to send duplicates by this packet, and urge the
speedy execution, as I represented to him the danger
that these dissatisfactions of the Indians might pro-
duce a war.

CCCXXIV

TO JOSEPH GALLOWAY

London, 13 March, 1768.

Dear Sir: — I wrote to you very fully by Falconer,
of February 17th, and have since received yours of
January 21st, together with one from the Commit-
tee, and the messages which, as you will see by my
answer to the Committee, I communicated to Lord
Hillsborough. His Lordship read them deliberately,
and took notice that the message of the Assembly
seemed to insinuate that the governor had been tardy
in bringing the former murderers to justice, which

426 The Works of [1768

gave me an opportunity of explaining that matter to
him; whereby he might also understand why the
Proprietor had not shown him the messages when he
communicated the governor's letter concerning the
Indian uneasinesses, the law under his considera-
tion for removing them, the late murder, and his
proclamation. I shall wait on his Lordship again
next Wednesday on our affairs, and show him, more-
over, your letter with some other papers.

The old Parliament is gone, and its enemies now
find themselves at liberty to abuse it. I enclose you
a pamphlet published the very hour of its proroga-
tion. All the members are now in their counties and
boroughs among their drunken electors; much con-
fusion and disorder in many places, and such profu-
sion of money as never was known before on any
similar occasion. The first instance of bribery to be
chosen a member, taken notice of on the journals, is no
longer ago than Queen Elizabeth's time, when the be-
ing sent to Parliament was looked upon as a trouble-
some service, and therefore not sought after. It
is said that such a one, " being a simple man and con-
ceiving it might be of some advantage to him, had
given four pounds to the mayor and corporation that
they might choose him to serve them in Parliament.

The price is monstrously risen since that time, for
it is now no less than four thousand pounds! It is
thought that near two millions will be spent this elec-
tion; but those who understand figures and act by
computation say the crown has two millions a year in
places and pensions to dispose of, and it is well worth
while to engage in such a seven years' lottery, though

i768 Benjamin Franklin 427

all that have tickets should not get prizes. I am, my

dear friend, yours affectionately,

B. Franklin.

CCCXXV

TO THE COMMITTEE OF CORRESPONDENCE IN PENN-
SYLVANIA

London, 16 April, 1768.

Gentlemen: — I have just received your favor of
February 20th, directed to Mr. Jackson and myself,
containing intructions for our conduct relating to the
application for a repeal of the duty act, to the change
of government, and to the legal tender of paper
money; which instructions we shall observe to the
best of our abilities. Mr. Jackson has read your let-
ter, and is now reading the messages and other papers
transmitted to us, which we shall lay before the sec-
retaries of state on Monday, and thereupon press the
necessity of a change in the administration of our
province.

The Parliament will have a short session, it is said,
in May, when, if any application is made for the re-
peal of that act by the agents of the other colonies,
we shall join them heartily, and do what we can like-
wise in the affair of paper money. In the meantime,
should an Indian war make it necessary to emit paper
money with a legal tender, it may be considered how
far the fourth clause in the act of the 24 Geo. II.
might give countenance to your providing in that way
for the emergency. That act not being altered or

428 The Works of [1768

repealed by any later, it seems as if the Parliament
thought that clause not improper, though they have
not expressly made the same provision for the other
colonies. The mail being to go this evening, I can
only add that I am with the utmost respect for
you and the Assembly, Gentlemen, your most obe-
dient and most humble servant,

B. Franklin.

CCCXXVI

TO WILLIAM FRANKLIN

London, 16 April, 1768.

Dear Son: — Since my last, a long one, of March
13th, nothing has been talked or thought of here but
elections. There have been amazing contests all over
the kingdom, twenty or thirty thousand pounds of a
side spent in several places, and inconceivable mis-
chief done by debauching the people and making
them idle, besides the immediate actual mischief done
by drunken mad mobs to houses, windows, &c. The
scenes have been horrible. London was illuminated
two nights running, at the command of the mob, for
the success of Wilkes, in the Middlesex election. The
second night exceeded any thing of the kind ever
seen here on the greatest occasions of rejoicing, as
even the small cross-streets, lanes, courts, and other
out-of-the-way places were all in a blaze with lights,
and the principal streets all night long, as the mobs
went round again after two o'clock, and obliged peo-
ple who had extinguished their candles to light them

1768] Benjamin Franklin 429

again. Those who refused had all their windows
destroyed. The damage done, and expense of
candles, have been computed at fifty thousand
pounds. It must have been great, though probably
not so much.

The ferment is not yet over, for he has promised
to surrender himself to the court next Wednesday,
and another tumult is then expected ; and what the
upshot will be no one can yet foresee. It is really an
extraordinary event, to see an outlaw and an exile, of
bad personal character, not worth a farthing, come
over from France, set himself up as candidate for the
capital of the kingdom, miss his election only by be-
ing too late in his application, and immediately carry-
ing it for the principal county; the mob (spirited up
by numbers of different ballads sung or roared in
every street) requiring gentlemen and ladies of all
ranks, as they passed in their carriages, to shout for
Wilkes and liberty, marking the same words on all
their coaches with chalk, and No. 45 x on every door;
which extends a vast way along the roads into the
country. I went last week to Winchester, and ob-
served that for fifteen miles out of town there was
scarce a door or window-shutter next the road un-
marked ; and this continued, here and there, quite to
Winchester, which is sixty-four miles.

B. Franklin.

1 Wilkes was prosecuted for publishing a libel against the govern-
ment in a paper, called the North Briton. Parliament ordered "No.
45 " of that paper, in which the libel was contained, to be burnt by the
hands of the common hangman, which of course created a great de-
mand for copies of it.

430 The Works of [1768

CCCXXVII

ON THE LABORING POOR

Sir: — I have met with much invective in the
papers, for these two years past, against the hard-
heartedness of the rich, and much complaint of
the great oppressions suffered in this country by the
laboring poor. Will you admit a word or two on the
other side of the question? I do not propose to be
an advocate for oppression or oppressors. But when
I see that the poor are, by such writings, exasperated
against the rich, and excited to insurrections, by
which much mischief is done, and some forfeit their
lives, I could wish the true state of things were bet-
ter understood, the poor not made by these busy
writers more uneasy and unhappy than their situa-
tion subjects them to be, and the nation not brought
into disrepute among foreigners by public groundless
accusations of ourselves, as if the rich in England had
no compassion for the poor, and Englishmen wanted
common humanity.

In justice, then, to this country, give me leave to
remark that the condition of the poor here is, by far,
the best in Europe ; for that, except in England and
her American colonies, there is not in any country of
the known world, not even in Scotland or Ireland, a
provision by law to enforce a support of the poor.
Everywhere else necessity reduces to beggary. This
law was not made by the poor. The legislators were
men of fortune. By that act they voluntarily sub-
jected their own estates, and the estates of all others,
to the payment of a tax for the maintenance of the

1768] Benjamin Franklin 43 x

poor, encumbering those estates with a kind of rent-
charge for that purpose, whereby the poor are vested
with an inheritance, as it were, in all the estates of
the rich. I wish they were benefited by this gener-
ous provision in any degree equal to the good inten-
tion with which it was made, and is continued. But
I fear the giving mankind a dependence on any thing
for support, in age or sickness, besides industry and
frugality during youth and health, tends to flatter our
natural indolence, to encourage idleness and prodi-
gality, and thereby to promote and increase poverty,
the very evil it was intended to cure ; thus multiply-
ing beggars instead of diminishing them.

Besides this tax, which the rich in England have
subjected themselves to in behalf of the poor,
amounting in some places to five or six shillings in
the pound, of the annual income, they have, by do-
nations and subscriptions, erected numerous schools
in various parts of the kingdom, for educating,
gratis, the children of the poor in reading and writ-
ing; and in many of those schools the children are
also fed and clothed. They have erected hospitals
at an immense expense for the reception and cure of
the sick, the lame, the wounded, and the insane poor,
for lying-in women, and deserted children. They are
also continually contributing towards making up
losses occasioned by fire, by storms, or by floods, and
to relieve the poor in severe seasons of frost, in times
of scarcity, &c, in which benevolent and charitable
contributions no nation exceeds us. Surely, there
is some gratitude due for so many instances of
goodness.
The Works of [1768

Add to this all the laws made to discourage foreign
manufactures, by laying heavy duties on them, where-
by the rich are obliged to pay much higher prices for
what they wear and consume, than if the trade was
open. These are so many laws for the support of
our laboring poor, made by the rich, and continued
at their expense ; all the difference of price between
our own and foreign commodities, being so much
given by our rich to our poor, who would indeed
be enabled by it to get by degrees above poverty,
if they did not, as too generally they do, consider
every increase of wages only as something that enables
them to drink more and work less ; so that their dis-
tress in sickness, age, or times of scarcity, continues
to be the same as if such laws had never been made
in their favor.

Much malignant censure have some writers be-
stowed upon the rich for their luxury and expensive
living, while the poor are starving, &c. ; not consider-
ing that what the rich expend, the laboring poor re-
ceive in payment for their labor. It may seem a
paradox if I should assert that our laboring poor do
in every year receive the whole revenue of the na-
tion; I mean not only the public revenue, but also
the revenue or clear income of all private estates, or
a sum equivalent to the whole.

In support of this position I reason thus. The rich
do not work for one another. Their habitations, fur-
niture, clothing carriages, food, ornaments, and every
thing in short, that they or their families use and
consume, is the work or produce of the laboring
poor, who are, and must be continually, paid for

1768] Benjamin Franklin 433

their labor in producing the same. In these pay-
ments the revenues of private estates are expended,
for most people live up to their incomes. In cloth-
ing or provisions for troops, in arms, ammunition,
ships, tents, carriages, &c, &c, (every particular the
produce of labor,) much of the public revenue is ex-
pended. The pay of officers, civil and military, and
of the private soldiers and sailors, requires the rest;
and they spend that also in paying for what is pro-
duced by the laboring poor.

I allow that some estates may increase by the
owners spending less than their income; but then I
conceive that other estates do at the same time di-
minish by the owners spending more than their in-
come, so that when the enriched want to buy more
land, they easily find lands in the hands of the im-
poverished, whose necessities oblige them to sell;
and thus this difference is equalled. I allow also,
that part of the expense of the rich is in foreign
produce or manufactures, for producing which the
laboring poor of other nations must be paid; but
then I say, we must first pay our own laboring poor
for an equal quantity of our manufactures or produce,
to exchange for those foreign productions, or we
must pay for them in money, which money, not being
the natural produce of our country, must first be
purchased from abroad, by sending out its value in
the produce or manufactures of this country, for
which manufactures our laboring poor are to be paid.
And indeed, if we did not export more than we im-
port, we could have no money at all. I allow farther,
that there are middle men, who make a profit, and

VOL. IV.— 28.

434 The Works of [1768

even get estates, by purchasing the labor of the poor,
and selling it at advanced prices to the rich ; but then
they cannot enjoy that profit, or the incomes of es-
tates, but by spending them in employing and paying
our laboring poor, in some shape or other, for the
products of industry. Even beggars, pensioners,
hospitals, and all that are supported by charity, spend
their incomes in the same manner. So that finally,
as I said at first, our laboring poor receive annually
the whole of the clear revenues of the nation, and from
us they can have no more.

If it be said that their wages are too low, and that
they ought to be better paid for their labor, I heartily
wish that any means could be fallen upon to do it,
consistent with their interest and happiness ; but, as
the cheapness of other things is owing to the plenty
of those things, so the cheapness of labor is in most
cases owing to the multitude of laborers, and to their
underworking one another in order to obtain em-
ployment. How is this to be remedied? A law
might be made to raise their wages ; but if our man-
ufactures are too dear they will not vend abroad,
and all that part of employment will fail, unless by
fighting and conquering we compel other nations to
buy our goods, whether they will or no, which some
have been mad enough at times to propose.

Among ourselves, unless we give our working peo-
ple less employment, how can we, for what they do,
pay them higher than we do ? Out of what fund is the
additional price of labor to be paid, when all our
present incomes are, as it were, mortgaged to them?
Should they get higher wages, would that make them

1 768] Benjamin Franklin 435

less poor, if, in consequence, they worked fewer days
of the week proportionally ? I have said, a law
might be made to raise their wages; but I doubt
much whether it could be executed to any purpose,
unless another law, now indeed almost obsolete,
could at the same time be revived and enforced; a
law, I mean, that many have often heard and re-
peated, but few have ever duly considered. Six days
shall thou labor. This is as positive a part of the com-
mandment, as that which says, The seventh day thou
shall rest. But we remember well to observe the in-
dulgent part, and never think of the other. Saint
Monday is generally as duly kept by our working peo-
ple as Sunday; the only difference is, that, instead of
employing their time cheaply at church, they are
wasting it expensively at the alehouse.

I am, Sir, yours, &c,

Medius.

CCCXXVIII

SOME GOOD WHIG PRINCIPLES.1

Declaration of those rights of the Commonalty
of Great Britain, without which they cannot be free.

It is declared :
First. That the government of this realm, and the
making of laws for the same, ought to be lodged in
the hands of King, Lords of Parliament, and repre-
sentatives of the whole body of the freemen of this
realm.

1 A printed paper, of which the following is a copy, was found among
Dr. Franklin's papers, endorsed by him as above. — W. T. F.

436 The Works of [1768

Secondly. That every man of the commonalty (ex-
cepting infants, insane persons, and criminals) is, of
common right, and by the laws of God, a freeman,
and entitled to the free enjoyment of liberty.

Thirdly. That liberty, or freedom, consists in hav-
ing an actual share in the appointment of those who
frame the laws, and who are to be the guardians of
every man's life, property, and peace; for the all of
one man is as dear to him as the all of another; and
the poor man has an equal right, but more need, to
have representatives in the legislature than the rich
one.

Fourthly. That they who have no voice nor vote
in the electing of representatives, do not enjoy liberty;
but are absolutely enslaved to those who have votes,
and to their representatives ; for to be enslaved is to
have governors whom other men have set over us, and
be subject to laws made by the representatives of others,
without having had representatives of our own to
give consent in our behalf.

Fifthly. That a very great majority of the commu-
nity of this realm are denied the privilege of voting
for representatives in Parliament ; and, consequently
they are enslaved to a small number, who do now
enjoy the privilege exclusively to themselves; but
who, it may be presumed, are far from wishing to
continue in the exclusive possession of a privilege by
which their fellow- subjects are deprived of common
right, of justice, of liberty; and which, if not commu-
nicated to all, must speedily cause the certain over-
throw of our happy constitution, and enslave us all.

And, sixthly and lastly. We also say and do assert,

1768] Benjamin Franklin 437

that it is the right of the commonalty of this realm to
elect a new House of Commons once in every year
according to the ancient and sacred laws of the land ;
because, whenever a Parliament continues in being
for a longer term, very great numbers of the common-
alty, who have arrived at years of manhood since the
last election, and therefore have a right to be actually
represented in the House of Commons, are then un-
justly deprived of that right.

CCCXXIX

PREFACE TO THE " LETTERS FROM A FARMER IN PENN-
SYLVANIA." x

When I consider our fellow subjects in America
as rational creatures, I cannot but wonder that, dur-
ing the present wide difference of sentiments in the
two countries, concerning the power of Parliament
in laying taxes and duties on America, no application
has been made to their understandings, no able and
learned pen among us has been employed in convinc-
ing them that they are in the wrong; proving clearly
that, by the established law of nations, or by the terms
of their original constitution, they are taxable by our
Parliament though they have no representative in it.

On the contrary, whenever there is any news of
discontent in America, the cry is, "Send over an
army or a fleet, and reduce the dogs to reason"

1 Written by John Dickinson and introduced to the English public by
Dr. Franklin with this preface.

438 The Works of [1768

It is said of choleric people, that with them there
is but a word and a blow.

I hope Britain is not so choleric, and will never be
so angry with her colonies as to strike them. But
that if she should ever think it may be necessary,
she will at least let the word go before the blow, and
reason with them.

To do this clearly, and with the most probability
of success, by removing their prejudices and rectify-
ing their misapprehensions (if they are such), it will
be necessary to learn what those prejudices and mis-
apprehensions are; and before we can either refute
or admit their reasons or arguments, we should cer-
tainly know them.

It is to that end I have handed the following Let-
ters (lately published in America) to the press here.
They were occasioned by the act made (since the re-
peal of the Stamp Act) for raising a revenue in
America by duties on glass, paper, &c.

The author is a gentleman of repute in that coun-
try for his knowledge of its affairs, and, it is said,
speaks the general sentiments of the inhabitants.
How far those sentiments are right or wrong, I do
not pretend at present to judge. I wish to see first
what can be said on the other side of the question.
I hope this publication will produce a full answer, if
we can make one. If it does, this publication will
have had its use. No offence to government is in-
tended by it ; and it is hoped none will be taken.

N.N.

London, May 8th, 1768.

1768] Benjamin Franklin 439

CCCXXX

TO SIR JOHN PRINGLE

Craven Street, io May, 1768.

Sir: — You may remember that when we were
travelling together in Holland, you remarked that
the trackschuit in one of the stages went slower than
usual, and inquired of the boatman what might be
the reason; who answered that it had been a dry
season and the water in the canal was low. On being
again asked if it was so low that the boat touched the
muddy bottom, he said no, not so low as that, but so
low as to make it harder for the horse to draw the
boat. We neither of us at first could conceive that
if there was enough water for the boat to swim clear
of the bottom, its being deeper would make any dif-
ference. But, as the man affirmed it seriously as a
thing well known among them, and as the punctuality
required in their stages was likely to make such dif-
ference, if any there were, more readily observed by
them than by other watermen who did not pass so
regularly and constantly backwards and forwards in
the same track, I began to apprehend there might be
something in it, and attempted to account for it from
this consideration, that the boat, in proceeding along
the canal, must, in every boat's length of her course,
move out of her way a body of water equal in bulk
to the room her bottom took up in the water; that
the water so moved must pass on each side of her
and under her bottom to get behind her ; that if the
passage under her bottom was straitened by the shal-
lows, more of that water must pass by her sides, and

44o The Works of [i768

with a swifter motion, which would retard her, as
moving the contrary way; or that the water becom-
ing lower behind the boat than before, she was pressed
back by the weight of its difference in height, and her
motion retarded by having that weight constantly to
overcome. But as it is often lost time to attempt
accounting for uncertain facts, I determined to make
an experiment of this when I should have convenient
time and opportunity.

After our return to England, as often as I happened
to be on the Thames, I enquired of our watermen
whether they were sensible of any difference in rowing
over shallow or deep water. I found them all agree-
ing in the fact that there was a very great difference,
but they differed widely in expressing the quantity of
the difference ; some supposing it was equal to a mile
in six, others to a mile in three, &c. As I did not
recollect to have met with any mention of this matter
in our philosophical books, and conceiving that if the
difference should really be great it might be an object
of consideration in the many projects now on foot for
digging new navigable canals in this island, I lately
put my design of making the experiment in execution,
in the following manner.

I provided a trough of plain boards fourteen feet
long, six inches wide, and six inches deep, in the clear,
filled with water within half an inch of the edge, to
represent a canal. I had a loose board of nearly the
same length and breadth, that, being put into the
water, might be sunk to any depth, and fixed by little
wedges where I would choose to have it stay, in order
to make different depths of water, leaving the surface

1768] Benjamin Franklin 44 }

at the same height with regard to the sides of the
trough. I had a little boat in form of a lighter or
boat of burthen, six inches long, two inches and a
quarter wide, and one inch and a quarter deep.
When swimming it drew one inch water. To give
motion to the boat I fixed one end of a long silk
thread to its bow, just even with the water's edge,
the other end passed over a well-made brass pulley
of about an inch diameter, turning freely on a small
axis; and a shilling was the weight. Then placing
the boat at one end of the trough, the weight would
draw it through the water to the other.

Not having a watch that shows seconds, in order to
measure the time taken up by the boat in passing
from end to end, I counted as fast as I could count
to ten repeatedly, keeping an account of the number
of tens on my fingers. And, as much as possible to
correct any little inequalities in my counting, I re-
peated the experiment a number of times at each
depth of water, that I might take the medium. And
the following are the results:

Water i£ inches deep. 2 inches. 4I inches.

1st exp. - - 100 94 - - ~ 79

2 - 104 93 - - - 78

3 104 - - - 91 " " " 77

4 - - - 106 - - - 87 - - - 79
^ . 100 88 - - - 79

6 _.- 99 ---86 ---80

7 - 100 - - - 90 - - - 79

8 - - - 100 - - - 88 - - - 81

813 717 632

Medium 101 Medium 89 Medium 79

442 The Works of [1768

I made many other experiments, but the above are
those in which I was most exact ; and they serve suf-
ficiently to show that the difference is considerable.
Between the deepest and shallowest it appears to be
somewhat more than one fifth. So that, supposing
large canals and boats and depths of water to bear
the same proportions, and that four men or horses
would draw a boat in deep water four leagues in four
hours, it would require five to draw the same boat in
the same time as far in shallow water ; or four would
require five hours.

Whether this difference is of consequence enough
to justify a greater expense in deepening canals, is a
matter of calculation, which our ingenious engineers
in that way will readily determine. I am, &c,

B. Franklin.

CCCXXXI

TO JOHN ROSS

London, 14 May, 1768.

Dear Sir: — I received your favor of March 13th,
and am extremely concerned at the disorders on our
frontiers, and at the debility or wicked connivance of
our government and magistrates, which must make
property and even life more and more insecure among
us, if some effectual remedy is not speedily applied.
I have laid all the accounts before the ministry here.
I wish I could procure more attention to them. I
have urged over and over the necessity of the change
we desire ; but this country itself being at present in

1768] Benjamin Franklin 443

a situation very little better, weakens our argument
that a royal government would be better managed,
and safer to live under, than that of a proprietary.
Even this capital, the residence of the King, is now
a daily scene of lawless riot and confusion. Mobs
patrolling the streets at noonday, some knocking all
down that will not roar for Wilkes and liberty ; courts
of justice afraid to give judgment against him ; coal-
heavers and porters pulling down the houses of coal
merchants that refuse to give them more wages ; saw-
yers destroying sawmills; sailors unrigging all the
outward-bound ships, and suffering none to sail till
merchants agree to raise their pay; watermen de-
stroying private boats and threatening bridges ; sol-
diers firing among the mobs and killing men, women,
and children, which seems only to have produced a
universal sullenness, that looks like a great black
cloud coming on, ready to burst in a general tempest.

What the event will be, God only knows. But
some punishment seems preparing for a people who
are ungratefully abusing the best constitution and
the best King any nation was ever blessed with, in-
tent on nothing but luxury, licentiousness, power,
places, pensions, and plunder; while the ministry,
divided in their counsels, with little regard for each
other, worried by perpetual oppositions, in continual
apprehension of changes, intent on securing popu-
larity in case they should lose favor, have for some
years past had little time or inclination to attend to
our small affairs, whose remoteness makes them ap-
pear still smaller.

The bishops here are very desirous of securing the

444 The Works of [1768

Church of England in America, and promoting its
interests and enlargement by sending one of their
order thither; but though they have long solicited
this point with government here, they have not as
yet been able to obtain it, so apprehensive are min-
isters of engaging in any novel measure.

I hope soon to have an opportunity of con-
ferring with you, and therefore say no more at
present on this subject. I am, my dear friend, yours
affectionately,

B. Franklin.

CCCXXXII

TO JOSEPH GALLOWAY

London, 14 May, 1768.

Dear Sir: — I received your favor of March 31st.
It is now, with the messages, in the hands of the
minister, so that I cannot be more particular at
present in answering it than to say I should have a
melancholy prospect in going home to such public
confusion, if I did not leave greater confusion behind
me. The newspapers, and my letter of this day to
Mr. Ross, will inform you of the miserable situation
this country is in. While I am writing, a great mob
of coal porters fills the street, carrying a wretch of
their business upon poles, to be ducked and otherwise
punished at their pleasure for working at the old
wages. All respect to law and government seems to
be lost among the common people, who are more-

1768] Benjamin Franklin 445

over continually inflamed by seditious scribblers, to
trample on authority and every thing that used to
keep them in order.

The Parliament is now sitting, but will not con-
tinue long together, nor undertake any material busi-
ness. The court of King's Bench postponed giving
sentence against Wilkes on his outlawry till the next
term, intimidated, as some say, by his popularity, and
willing to get rid of the affair for a time, till it should
be seen what the Parliament would conclude as to his
membership. The Commons, at least some of them,
resent that conduct, which has thrown a burthen on
them it might have eased them of, by pillorying or
punishing him in some infamous manner, that would
have given better ground for expelling him the House.
His friends complain of it as a delay of justice, say
the court knew the outlawry to be defective, and that
they must finally pronounce it void, but would punish
him by long confinement. Great mobs of his adhe-
rents have assembled before the prison, the guards
have fired on them; it is said five or six are killed,
and sixteen or seventeen wounded ; and some circum-
stances have attended this military execution, such
as its being done by the Scotch regiment, the pursu-
ing a lad, and killing him at his father's house, &c,
&c, that exasperate people exceedingly, and more
mischief seems brewing. Several of the soldiers are
imprisoned. If they are not hanged, it is feared there
will be more and greater mobs; and, if they are, that
no soldier will assist in suppressing any mob hereafter.
The prospect either way is gloomy. It is said the
English soldiers cannot be confided in to act against

446 The Works of [1768

these mobs, being suspected as rather inclined to
favor and join them.

I am preparing for my return, and hope for the
pleasure of finding you well, when I shall have an
opportunity of communicating to you more particu-
larly the state of things here relating to our Ameri-
can affairs, which I cannot so well do by letter. I
enclose you a report of Sir M L , coun-
sel to the Board of Trade, on one of your late acts.
I suppose it has had its effect, so that the repeal will
be of little consequence. In the meantime, I am with
sincere esteem and affection, Sir, your most obedient
and most humble servant,

B. Franklin.

CCCXXXIII

TO OLIVER NEAVE

[No date.]

Dear Sir: — I cannot be of opinion with you that
it is too late in life for you to learn to swim. The
river near the bottom of your garden affords a most
convenient place for the purpose. And as your new
employment requires your being often on the water,
of which you have such a dread, I think you would
do well to make the trial ; nothing being so likely to
remove those apprehensions as the consciousness of
an ability to swim to the shore, in case of an accident,
or of supporting yourself in the water till a boat
could come to take you up.

I do not know how far corks or bladders may be

1768] Benjamin Franklin 447

useful in learning to swim, having never seen much
trial of them. Possibly they may be of service in
supporting the body while you are learning what is
called the stroke, or that manner of drawing in and
striking out the hands and feet that is necessary to
produce progressive motion. But you will be no
swimmer till you can place some confidence in the
power of the water to support you ; I would there-
fore advise the acquiring of that confidence in the
first place ; especially as I have known several who,
by a little of the practice necessary for that purpose,
have insensibly acquired the stroke, taught as it were
by nature.

The practice I mean is this: Choosing a place
where the water deepens gradually, walk coolly into it
till it is up to your breast, then turn round, your face
to the shore, and throw an egg into the water between
you and the shore. It will sink to the bottom, and be
easily seen there, as your water is clear. It must lie
in water so deep as that you cannot reach it to take
it up but by diving for it. To encourage yourself in
order to do this, reflect that your progress will be
from deeper to shallower water, and that at any time
you may, by bringing your legs under you and stand-
ing on the bottom, raise your head far above the
water. Then plunge under it with your eyes open,
throwing yourself towards the egg, and endeavouring
by the action of your hands and feet against the water
to get forward till within reach of it. In this attempt
you will find that the water buoys you up against
your inclination ; that it is not so easy a thing to sink
as you imagined; that you cannot but by active

448 The Works of [1768

force get down to the egg. Thus you feel the power
of the water to support you, and learn to confide
in that power; while your endeavours to overcome
it, and to reach the egg, teach you the manner of
acting on the water with your feet and hands, which
action is afterwards used in swimming to support
your head higher above water, or to go forward
through it.

I would the more earnestly press you to the trial
of this method, because, though I think I satisfied
you that your body is lighter than water, and that
you might float in it a long time with your mouth
free for breathing, if you would put yourself in a
proper posture, and would be still and forbear strug-
gling; yet till you have obtained this experimental
confidence in the water, I cannot depend on your hav-
ing the necessary presence of mind to recollect that
posture and the directions I gave you relating to
it. The surprise may put all out of your mind. For
though we value ourselves on being reasonable,
knowing creatures, reason and knowledge seem on
such occasions to be of little use to us; and the
brutes, to whom we allow scarce a glimmering of
either, appear to have the advantage of us.

I will, however, take this opportunity of repeating
those particulars to you which I mentioned in our
last conversation, as, by perusing them at your
leisure, you may possibly imprint them so in your
memory as on occasion to be of some use to you.

1. That though the legs, arms, and head of a
human body, being solid parts, are specifically some-
thing heavier than fresh water, yet the trunk, partic-

1768] Benjamin Franklin 449

ularly the upper part, from its hollo wness, is so much
lighter than water, as that the whole of the body-
taken together is too light to sink wholly under
water, but some part will remain above, until the
lungs become filled with water, which happens from
drawing water into them instead of air, when a per-
son in the fright attempts breathing while the mouth
and nostrils are under water.

2. That the legs and arms are specifically lighter
than salt water, and will be supported by it, so that a
human body would not sink in salt water, though the
lungs were filled as above, but from the greater
specific gravity of the head.

3 . That therefore a person throwing himself on his
back in salt water, and extending his arms, may easily
lie so as to keep his mouth and nostrils free for
breathing; and by a small motion of his hands may
prevent turning, if he should perceive any tendency
to it.

4. That in fresh water, if a man throws himself on
his back, near the surface, he cannot long continue in
that situation but by proper action of his hands on
the water. If he uses no such action, the legs and
lower part of the body will gradually sink till he
comes into an upright position, in which he will con-
tinue suspended, the hollow of the breast keeping the
head uppermost.

5. But if, in this erect position, the head is kept
upright above the shoulders, as when we stand on the
ground, the immersion will, by the weight of that
part of the head that is out of water, reach above the
mouth and nostrils, perhaps a little above the eyes,

VOL. IV. — 29.

450 The Works of [1768

so that a man cannot long remain suspended in water
with his head in that position.

6. The body continuing suspended as before, and
upright, if the head be leaned quite back, so that the
face looks upwards, all the back part of the head be-
ing then under water, and its weight consequently in
a great measure supported by it, the face will remain
above water quite free for breathing, will rise an inch
higher every inspiration, and sink as much every ex-
piration, but never so low as that the water may come
over the mouth.

7. If therefore a person unacquainted with swim-
ming and falling accidentally into the water, could
have presence of mind sufficient to avoid struggling
and plunging, and to let the body take this natural
position, he might continue long safe from drowning
till perhaps help would come. For as to the clothes,
their additional weight while immersed is very incon-
siderable, the water supporting it, though when he
comes out of the water he would find them very
heavy indeed.

But, as I said before, I would not advise you or
any one to depend on having this presence of mind
on such an occasion, but learn firmly to swim; as I
wish all men were taught to do in their youth. They
would, on many occurrences, be the safer for having
that skill, and on many more the happier, as freer
from painful apprehensions of danger, to say nothing
of the enjoyment in so delightful and wholesome an
exercise. Soldiers particularly should, methinks, all
be taught to swim; it might be of frequent use either
in surprising an enemy, or saving themselves. And

1768] Benjamin Franklin 45 l

if I had now boys to educate, I should prefer those
schools (other things being equal) where an oppor-
tunity was offered for acquiring so advantageous an
art, which, once learned, is never forgotten.

I am, Sir, &c,

B. Franklin.

END OF VOLUME IV.


===== Benjamin Franklin - Founders Online (complete) + Works of Benjamin Franklin (Sparks, 10 vols, PD) (vol. 6) =====
Source: https://archive.org/download/worksofbenjaminf06fran/worksofbenjaminf06fran_djvu.txt

NYPL RESEARCH LIBRARIES

« ^ .^^ .-,..ll illllH III iilll l'

3 3433 08173748 2

THE
NEW YORK PUBLIC LIBRARY

The Amy Angell Collier Montague

AND Gilbert H. Montague

Collection

4^

4 ^^^^ ^^'^//.

fT'-'^

FEDERAL EDITION
Limited to 1,000 signed and numbered sets.

Tiie Collector's Federal Edition of the Writings
of Benjamin Franklin is limited to six hundred
signed and numbered sets, of which this is

Number ^— ^

We guarantee that no limited, numbered edition,
other than the Federal, shall be printed from these
plates.

The written number must correspond with the
perforated number at top of this page.

QM

Benjamin Franklin

From the painting by Stephen Elmer

J U

site

ork$ 0t

^"^tttmiilriL

TTlR

rrr

ttt

(Kmeliij? li^him^s

iliedei'jil (K^tfmn

The Works of

Benjamin Franklin

Including the Private as well as the
Official and Scientific Correspondence

Together with
The Unmutilated and Correct Version of the Autobiography

Compiled and Edited
by

John Bigelow

Strange that Ulysses does a thousand things so well." — Iliad, B. ii, 335

Volume VI

G. P. Putnam's Sons
New York and London
^bc fjiilckerbocher press
^be •RnlcfterbocSer press, V\e\v Korft

CONTENTS OF VOLUME VI

1772-1773

PAGE

CCCCLXX.— The Settlement on the Ohio
River — Dr. Franklin's An-
swer TO Report. (Continued) 3
GCCCLXXI.— To Thomas Gushing, January

5TH 58

Conversation with Lord Dartmouth —
Condition of the India Company.

CCCCLXXII.— To Mrs. Deborah Franklin,

January 6th .... 62

His birthday.
CCCCLXXIIL— To Joseph Galloway, January

6th ... •63

FrankHn's remuneration as agent in
England — A quahfication of his lecture
on ofiEice-holding.

CCCCLXXIV— To Mrs. Deborah Franklin, Feb-
ruary 2D . . . . -65

CCCCLXXV.— To John Bartram February

ioth ....
CCCCLXXVL— To Anthony Benezet, February

ioth .... -67

CCCCLXXVIL— To Messrs. Abel James and Ben-
jamin Morgan, February ioth 68
Depressed state of the silk business in
England.
Iv Contents of Volume VI

PAGE

CCCCLXXVIIL— To James Johnston, February

lOTH ...... 69

American senna.

CCCCLXXIX.— To William Franklin, February

14TH ...... 70

The ministry's trouble with the East

India Company — Distress in the manu-

facttiring districts.

CCCCLXXX. — To Humphrey Marshall, Febru-
ary 14TH ..... 72
The spots on the sun — Dr. Wilson's
hypothesis.

CCCCLXXXL— To Wm. Marshall, February

14TH ...... 74

Scruples about oaths.

CCCCLXXXIL— To Mrs. Deborah Franklin,

February 14TH ... 75

Presents for his wife and daughter —

The death of the "good bishop's" gray

squirrel.

CCCCLXXXIII.— To Mr. Josiah Davenport, Feb-
ruary 14TH .... 76

His opinion of the ptinctuality of
cousins.
CCCCLXXXIV.— To Joseph Galloway, February

14TH ...... 77

The effect in England of the loss of the
tea market in America.

CCCCLXXXV.— From M. de Saussure, February

23D

Lightning conductors — The attraction
of mountains — Volcanic eruptions — The
torpedo.
CCCCLXXX VI.— To Mr. Golden, March 3D . .84
CCCCLXXXVII.— From John Winthrop, March

4TH ...... 84

Dr. Priestley.
CCCCLXXXVIII.— To Mrs. Mecom, March qth . 87

Sober second thought.
Contents of Volume VI v

PAGE

CCCCLXXXIX.— To Thomas Gushing, March qth . 88
Governor Hutchinson's speech — Duty
on tea.

CCCCXC. — To M. DuBouRG, March ioth . 90
On the analogy between magnetism
and electricity.

CCCCXCI.— To M. DuBouRG, March ioth . 93
The causes of cold.

CCCCXCII.— To William Franklin, March

15TH 94

CCCCXCIII. — To Abel James and Benjamin

Morgan, March 15TH . . 94

CCCCXCIV.— From M. Dubourg, March 25TH . 95
On the choice of glass for the Ley den
experiment.

CCCCXCV.— To M. Le Roy, March 30TH . 99

Pointed conductors.

CCCCXCVL— To Thomas Gushing, April 3D .101
Lord Dartmouth's plans for concilia-
tion.

CGCGXCVII.— To William Franklin, April 6th . loi
Bishop of St. Asaph.

CCGCXCVIIL— To His Daughter, April 6th . 103
The importance to housekeeping of
keeping accounts.
CCCCXCIX.— To Mr. Galloway, April 6th 104

The Bishop of St. Asaph's sermon
about the colonies — The advantages of a
war between England and France — The
grant.
D. — To Mr. Goombe, April 6th . . 105
DI. — To Dean Woodward, April ioth . 106
Slavery in America.
DII. — To William Deane, April iith . 107
A new carriage wheel — Stove for con-
suming its own smoke.
Din. — To M. Dubourg .... 109

On the prevailing views of life and
death.

vi Contents of Volume VI

PAGE

DIV.— To Messrs. Dubourg and Dali-

BARD . . . . .112

Concerning the mode of rendering
meat tender by electricity.

DV. — ^To M. Dubourg, May 4TH . . 115
Dr. Stark.

DVI. — ^To Thomas Gushing, May 6th . 115
Governor Hutchinson to the Assem-
bly of Massachusetts — Lord Dartmouth's
conversation about it — The Assembly's
answer.

DVII. — To M. Dubourg, June ist . . 120

DVIII.— To Mr. Golden, June 2D . . 123

The indolence of age.
DIX. — ^To Thomas Gushing, June 2D .124
Petition to the king, and answer.

DX.— To Thomas Gushing, June 4TH , 125

Duty on tea.
DXI. — From Samuel Gooper, June

14TH ...... 126

Massachusetts Assembly and the
Hutchinson letters.

DXII. — ^To M. Le Roy, June 22D . . 130

Hospitals — Effect of cold air on dis-
eases.
DXIII. — From Thomas Gushing, June 25TH 131
Hutchinson's letters — Petition for his
removal.

DXIV.— To M. Dubourg, June 29TH . . 133

The causes of taking cold.
DXV. — ^Preparatory Notes and Hints
for Writing a Paper concern-
ing What is Galled Gatching

Gold i33

DXVI. — Queries on Electricity, from
Dr. Ingenhousz, with Answers
BY Dr. Franklin . . . 145

Contents of Volume VI vii

PAGE

DXVIL— To Thomas Gushing, July 7th . 150

Controversy with Governor Hutchin-
son— Resolves of the Virginia House of
Burgesses commended — Franklin jvisti-
fies himself — Arthur Lee.
DXVIII.— To Thomas Gushing, July 7TH . 154
The king's answer to the American
petitions — English feeling toward Amer-
ica— Captain Calef— Sir Francis Ber-
nard's project.
DXIX.— To Samuel Mather, July 7TH . 162
Dissenters' petition — Discoverers of
America before Columbus — The pro-
ceedings against America
DXX.— To Samuel Gooper, July 7TH . 166
Stoves for public buildings.
DXXI.— To Samuel Cooper, July 7TH 168

The vmanimity of the people of Mas-
sachusetts in favor of liberty — Hutch-
inson's letters.
DXXIL— To Mrs. Mecom, July 7TH . . 170
DXXIIL— To Samuel Franklin, July 7TH . 172
DXXIV.— To Jonathan Williams, July 7TH 172
DXXV.— To William Franklin, July 14TH 173
Meeting with Lord North — Dart-
mouth— Anecdote of Hillsborough.
DXXVL— To Benjamin Rush, July 14TH . 177
Colds produced by contagion — Their
various causes.

DXXVIL— To Anthony Benezet, July 14TH
DXXVIII.— To Mr. Foxcroft, July 14TH
DXXIX.— To Samuel Danforth, July 25TH
DXXX.— To John Winthrop, July 25TH
DXXXL— To Samuel Cooper, July 25TH
DXXXIL— To Thomas Gushing, July 25TH
DXXXIIL— To John Winthrop, July 25TH
DXXXIV.— To William Franklin, August
3D
181
184
187
viii Contents of Volume VI

PAGE

DXXXV. — To Thomas Gushing, August 24TH 190
Presentation of the address for the
removal of Hutchinson and Oliver.

DXXXVL— To William Franklin, Septem-
ber 1ST ..... 192

Resolutions of the New England
townships — Project for a union with Ire-
land— Hutchinson's letters.

DXXXVIL— To Mrs. Deborah Franklin, Sep-
tember 1ST .... 194

DXXXVIII. — An Edict by the King of Prussia,

September 5th . . 195

DXXXIX. — To Thomas Gushing, September

I2TH ...... 201

Project to avoid repealing the Ameri-
can tea duty.
DXL. — To John Baskerville, September

21ST ...... 203

Sale of printers' types — Chinese paper.
DXLI. — Rules for Reducing a Great
Empire to a Small One, Sep-
tember ..... 204

DXLII. — To Thomas Gushing, September

23D ...... 216

DXLIII. — To Thomas Percival, September

25TH ...... 216

Unwholesomeness of manufactories —
Moist air not unwholesome.
DXLIV. — To John Ingenhousz, September

30TH . . . . . .219

Torpedo — Magnetic needle — Naime's

electric machine — Magazines at Purfleet.

DXLV. — To William Franklin, October

6th ...... 222

The power of Parliament to legislate
for the colonies denied — Lord Mans-
field's opinion of "The Prussian Edict."
DXLVI. — From Mrs. Deborah Franklin,

October 29TH .... 225

Contents of Volume VI ix
228

DXLVII.— From His Daughter Sally, Octo-
ber 30TH . • • • •
DXLVIII.— To Thomas Gushing, November

1ST .

Proposed accommodation with Great
Britain — Petition for removing the
governors.
DXLIX.— To an Engraver, November 30 . 231
Art of printing on china-ware— Its use
in teaching moral lessons.
DL.— To Joseph Galloway, November
3D . . • ■ • •
DLL— To William Franklin, November
3D . . • • • •

DLIL— Of the Stilling of Waves by

Means of Oil, November 7TH . 235
DLIII.— From Thomas Gushing, Decem-
ber lOTH . . • • • 250
Preparations for the "Tea Party."

DLIV.— From Thomas Gushing and

others, December 2ist . • 254
"The Tea Party."
DLV. — Preface to an Abridgement of

the Book of Gommon Prayer . 257
234
DLVL— To Thomas Gushing, January

5TH

Petition for the removal of the govern-
ors presented by Lord Dartmouth —
Duel between Mr. Temple and Mr.
Whately.
DLVII.— To William Franklin, January

5TH

Insinuations against Mr. Galloway —
Franklin proposes to return to America.
267

Contents of Volume VI

PAGB

DLVIII. — To JosiAH Tucker, February

I2TH ...... 269

Reply to oflFensive charges and in-
sinuations.

DLIX. — To Thomas Gushing, February

15TH 277

Proceedings before the Privy Cotin-
cil on the petition for the removal of
Governor Hutchinson — Dr. Franklin dis-
missed from his office of Deputy Post-
master-General .

DLX. — To Joseph Galloway. February

i8th 300

The Pennsylvania Assembly — Duty on
tea — Hutchinson's letters.

DLXI. — The Georgia Agency, February

24TH 302

DLXII. — To Samuel Cooper, February

25TH 311

The Hutchinson letters — French edi-
tion of Franklin's writings.

DLXIII. — On the Rise and Progress of the
Differences between Great
Britain and Her American
Colonies ..... 312

DLXIV. — From the Committee of the As-
sembly of Georgia, March

14TH 327

The difference between the upper and
lower house of the Georgia legislature
about Franklin's reappointment as
agent.
DLXV. — Queries Relating to the Colo-
nies TO BE Discussed with Lord

C M 330

DLXVI. — To the Marquis De Condorcet,

March 2oth .... 331
Answers to questions about America.

Contents of Volume VI xi

PAGE

DLXVIL— To John Baptist Beccaria, March

20TH ...••• 332
An English translation of his book —
Electrical experiments.

DLXVIII.— To Joseph Priestley . . . 334
Effect of vegetation on noxious air.
DLXIX.— To Thomas Gushing, March 22D . 335
DLXX.— To Thomas Gushing, April 2D . 336
Petition of Americans in London to
Pariiament — Alarm of the manxif acturers
— New measures hostile to the colonies
impending.
DLXXL— To Joseph Priestley, April ioth . 338
On the inflammability of the surface
of certain rivers in America.
DLXXIL— To Thomas Gushing, April i6th . 341
DLXXIIL— To Thomas Gushing, April 28th . 342
DLXXIV,— To Mrs. Deborah Franklin,

April 28th .... 343

Proposes to return to Philadelphia —
Illness of Mr. Hewson.
DLXXV.— To Thomas Gushing, June ist . 344

Massachusetts affairs — Lord Chatham
— The post-office.
DLXXVL— To Thomas Gushing, June 30TH . 346
DLXXVIL— To Mr. Goombe, July 22D . . 347
Speech of the good bishop — Poetry —
Eloquence in a preacher; its uses.

DLXXVIIL— To Mrs. Deborah Franklin, July

22D ....••

DLXXIX.— To Thomas Gushing, July 27TH . 349
DLXXX.— To William Franklin, Septem-
ber 7TH . . . • • 349
Prolongs his stay in England — The
Bostonians ought not to pay for the tea
used at the "Tea Party"— Sir WilHam
Johnson.
DLXXXI.— To Peter Timothy, September

7TH 351
362

xii Contents of Volume VI

PAGE

DLXXXIL— From Samuel Cooper, Septem-
ber 9TH 352

Excitement in Massachusetts — Gen-
eral Gage — Josiah Quincy, Jr.
DLXXXIIL— To Thomas Gushing, September

15TH 356

DLXXXIV. — To Mrs. Mecom, September 26th . 358
False reports respecting his conduct.
DLXXXV.— To Thomas Gushing, September

27TH 360

DLXXXVI.— To Richard Bache, September

30TH ....•• 361
Introducing Thomas Paine.
DLXXXVIL— To Joseph Galloway, October

I2TH

New elections in England — Lord
Percy — Franklin's situation.
DLXXXVIIL— A Parable on Persecution, Oc-
tober . . . • • 364
DLXXXIX.— A Parable on Brotherly Love . 368
DXG.— Franklin's Account of His
Gonnection with Governor
Hutchinson's Letters . . 37°
DXCL — ^The Result of England's Persist-
ence in Her Policy towards
Her Golonies Illustrated,
October . . . • -411
DXCIL — On a Proposed Act of Parlia-
ment FOR Preventing Emigra-
tion, November . . . 413
DXGin. — To Thomas Gushing, January

28TH 421

Lord Chatham's motion for concilia-
tory measures — More troops sent to
America — General Gage.

Contents of Volume VI xiii

PAGB

DXCIV. — To Charles Thomson, February

5TH 423

Petition of the First Congress to Par-
liament— Its reception — Lord Camden —
Lord Chatham's speech and plan.
DXCV. — To James Bowdoin, February

25TH ...... 428

Conduct of the Ministry — Firmness

and union of the colonies recommended.

DXCVI. — To Joseph Galloway, February

25TH 430

Plan of union sent to England — Ob-
jections to a union — Lord North's policy
to divide rather than unite.
DXCVII. — To Josiah Quincy, February

26TH 434

DXCVIII. — Franklin's Account of the Ne-
gotiations IN London for
Effecting a Reconciliation
between Great Britain and
the American Colonies, March

22D 435

CORRESPONDENCE

AND

MISCELLANEOUS WRITINGS

VOL. VI.— I.

CORRESPONDENCE

AND

MISCELLANEOUS WRITINGS

CCCCLXX

SETTLEMENT ON THE OHIO RIVER
DR. franklin's ANSWER TO THE FOREGOING REPORT

{Continued.)

From the foregoing detail of facts it is obvious —

1 . That the country southward of the Great Ken-
hawa, at least as far as the Cherokee River, origin-
ally belonged to the Shawanese.

2. That the Six Nations, in virtue of their con-
quest of the Shawanese, became the lawful pro-
prietors of that country.

3. That the king, in consequence of the grant
from the Six Nations, made to his Majesty at Fort
Stanwix in 1768, is now vested with the undoubted
right and property thereof.

4. That the Cherokees never resided nor hunted
in that country, and have not any kind of right to it.
4 The Works of [1772-3

5. That the House of Burgesses of the colony of
Virginia have, upon good grounds, asserted (such as
properly arise from the nature of their stations and
proximity to the Cherokee country) that the Chero-
kees had not any just pretensions to the territory
southward of the Great Kenhawa.

And, lastly, that neither the Six Nations, the
Shawanese, nor Delawares do now reside or hunt in
that country.

From these considerations it is evident no possi-
ble injury can arise to his Majesty's service, to the
Six Nations and their confederacy, or to the Chero-
kees, by permitting us to settle the whole of the
lands comprehended within our contract with the
Lords Commissioners of the Treasury. If, however,
there has been any treaty held with the Six Nations,
since the cession made to his Majesty at Fort Stan-
wix, whereby the faith of the crown is pledged both
to the Six Nations and the Cherokees, that no settle-
ments should be made beyond the line marked on
their Lordships' report; we say, if such an agree-
ment has been made by the orders of government
with these tribes (notwithstanding, as the Lords
Commissioners have acknowledged, "the Six Na-
tions had ceded the property in the lands to his
Majesty"), we flatter ourselves that the objection of
their Lordships in the second paragraph of their
report will be entirely obviated, by a specific clause
being inserted in the king's grant to us, expressly
prohibiting us from settling any part of the same,
until such time as we shall have first obtained his
Majesty's allowance, and full consent of the Chero-

1772-3] Benjamin Franklin 5

kees, and the Six Nations and their confederates for
that purpose.

III. In regard to the third paragraph of their
Lordships' report, that it was the principle of the
Board of Trade, after the treaty of Paris, "to con-
fine the western extent of settlements to such a dis-
tance from the sea-coast, as that these settlements
should lie within the reach of the trade and com-
merce of this kingdom," etc., we shall not presume
to controvert it; but it may be observed that the
settlement of the country over the Alleghany Moun-
tains, and on the Ohio, was not understood, either
before the treaty of Paris, nor intended to be so con-
sidered by his Majesty's proclamation of October,
1763, "as without the reach of the trade and com-
merce of this kingdom," etc.; for, in the year 1748,
Mr. John Hanbury, and a number of other gentlemen,
petitioned the king for a grant of five hundred thou-
sand acres of land over the Alleghany Mountains, and
on the river Ohio and its branches; and the Lords
Commissioners for Trade and Plantations were then
pleased to report to the Lords committee of his Ma-
jesty's most honorable Privy Council, "That the
settlement of the country lying to the westward of
the great mountains, as it was the centre of the
British dominions, would be for his Majesty's interest
and the advantage and security of Virginia and the
neighboring colonies."

And on the 23d of February, 1748-9, the Lords
Commissioners for Trade and Plantations again re-
ported to the Lords of the committee of the Privy
Council, that they had "fully set forth the great

6 The Works of [1772-3

utility and advantage of extending our settlements
beyond the great mountains ( ' which report has been
approved of by your Lordships'); and as, by these
new proposals, there is a great probability of having
a much larger tract of the said country settled than
under the former, we are of opinion that it will be
greatly for his Majesty's service, and the welfare and
security of Virginia, to comply with the prayer of
the petition."

And on the i6th of March, 1748-9, an instruction
was sent to the governor of Virginia to grant five
hundred thousand acres of land over the Alleghany
Mountains to the aforesaid Mr. Hanbury and his part-
ners (who are now part of the company of Mr.
Walpole and his associates); and that instruction
sets forth that " such settlements will be for our
interest, and the advantage and security of our said
colony, as well as the advantage of the neighboring
ones ; inasmuch as our loving subjects will be thereby
enabled to cultivate a friendship, and carry on a more
extensive commerce, with the nations of Indians in-
habiting those parts; and such examples may like-
wise induce the neighboring colonies to turn their
thoughts towards designs of the same nature."
Hence, we apprehend, it is evident that a former
Board of Trade, at which the late Lord Halifax pre-
sided, was of opinion that settlements over the Alle-
ghany Mountains were not against the king's interest,
nor at such a distance from the sea-coast, as to be
without "the reach of the trade and commerce of
this kingdom," nor where its authority or jurisdic-
tion could not be exercised. But the report under

1772-3] Benjamin Franklin 7

consideration suggests that two capital objects of the
proclamation of 1763 were, to confine future settle-
ments to the "sources of the rivers which fall into
the sea from the west and northwest ' ' (or, in other
words, to the eastern side of the Alleghany Moun-
tains), and to the three new governments of Canada,
East Florida, and West Florida; and to establish
this fact, the Lords Commissioners for Trade and
Plantations recite a part of that proclamation.

But if the whole of this proclamation is considered,
it will be found to contain the nine following heads,
viz. : '

1. To declare to his Majesty's subjects that he had
erected four distinct and separate governments in
America, viz., Quebec, East Florida, West Florida,
and Granada.

2. To ascertain the respective boundaries of these
four new governments.

3. To testify the royal sense and approbation of
the conduct and bravery, both of the officers and
soldiers of the king's army, and of the reduced offi-
cers of the navy, who had served in North America,
and to reward them by grants of land in Quebec,
and in East and West Florida, without fee or
reward.

4. To hinder the governors of Quebec, East Flor-
ida, and West Florida from granting warrants of
survey, or passing patents for lands beyond the
bounds of their respective governments.

5. To forbid the governors of any other colonies
or plantations in America from granting warrants or

I See the Proclamation in the Appendix, No. I., p. 49-

8 The Works of [1772-3

passing patents for lands beyond the heads or sources
of any of the rivers which fall into the Atlantic
Ocean from the west or northwest, or upon any
lands whatever " which, not having been ceded to or
purchased by the king, are reserved to the said
Indians, or any of them."

6. To reserve, " for the present," under the king's
sovereignty, protection, and dominion, "for the use
of the said Indians, " all the lands not included within
the limits of the said three new governments, or
within the limits of the Hudson's Bay Company;
as also all the lands lying to the westward of
the sources of the rivers which fall into the sea from
the west and northwest, and forbidding the king's
subjects from making any purchases or settle-
ments whatever, or taking possession of the lands
so reserved, without his Majesty's leave and license
first obtained.

7. To require all persons who had made settle-
ments on land not purchased by the king from the
Indians, to remove from such settlements.

8. To regulate the future purchases of lands from
the Indians, within such parts as his Majesty, by
that proclamation, permitted settlements to be made
upon.

9. To declare that the trade with the Indians
should be free and open to all his Majesty's subjects,
and to prescribe the manner how it shall be carried
on.

And, lastly, to require all military officers, and the
superintendent of Indian affairs, to seize and appre
hend all persons who stood charged with treasons,

1772-3] Benjamin Franklin 9

murders, etc., and who had fled from justice and
taken refuge in the reserved lands of the Indians, to
send such persons to the colony where they stood
accused.

From this proclamation, therefore, it is obvious
that the sole design of it, independent of the establish-
ment of the three new governments, ascertaining their
respective boundaries, rewarding the officers and
soldiers, regulating the Indian trade, and apprehend-
ing felons, was to convince the Indians " of his Ma-
jesty's justice and determined resolution to remove all
reasonable cause of discontent," by interdicting all
settlements on land not ceded to, or purchased by,
his Majesty; and declaring it to be, as we have al-
ready mentioned, his royal will and pleasure, " for the
present, to reserve, under his sovereignty, protection
and dominion, for the use of the Indians, all the lands
and territories lying to the westward of the sources
of the rivers which fall into the sea from the west
and northwest." Can any words express more de-
cisively the royal intention ? Do they not explicitly
mention that the territory is, at present, reserved,
under his Majesty's protection, for the use of the In-
dians? And as the Indians had no use for those
lands which are bounded westerly by the southeast
side of the river Ohio, either for residence or hunt-
ing, they were willing to sell them ; and accordingly
did sell them to the king in November, 1768, the
occasion of which sale will be fully explained in our
observations on the succeeding paragraphs of the
report. Of course, the proclamation, so far as it re-
garded the settlement of the lands included within

lo The Works of [1772-3

that purchase, has absolutely and undoubtedly
ceased. The late Mr. Grenville, who was, at the
time of issuing this proclamation, the minister of this
kingdom, always admitted that the design of it was
totally accomplished, so soon as the country was
purchased from the natives.

IV. In this paragraph the Lords Commissioners
for Trade and Plantations mention two reasons for
his Majesty's entering into engagements with the
Indians, for fixing a more precise and determinate
boundary line than was settled by the proclamation
of October, 1763, viz.:

First — Partly for want of precision in the one
intended to be marked by the proclamation of
1763.

Secondly — And partly from a consideration of jus-
tice in regard to legal titles to lands.

We have, we presume, fully proved, in our observa-
tions on the third paragraph, that the design of the
proclamation, so far as related to lands westward of
the Alleghany Mountains, was for no other purpose
than to reserve them, under his Majesty's protection,
for the present, for the use of the Indians ; to which we
shall only add that the line established by the procla-
mation, so far as it concerned the lands in question,
could not possibly be fixed and described with more
precision than the proclamation itself describes it;
for it declares that " all the lands and territories lying
to the westward of the sources of the rivers which
fall into the sea from the west and northwest, " should
be reserved under his Majesty's protection.

Neither, in our opinion, was his Majesty induced

1772-3] Benjamin Franklin n

to enter into engagements with the Indians, for fix-
ing a more precise and determinate boundary," partly
from a consideration of justice, in regard to legal
titles to lands," for there were none such (as we shall
prove) comprehended within the tract now under
consideration.

But for a full comprehension of all the reasons for
his Majesty's "entering into engagements with the
Indians, for fixing a more precise and determinate
boundary line ' ' than was settled by the royal procla-
mation of October, 1763, we shall take the liberty
of stating the following facts. In the year 1764,
the king's ministers had it then in contemplation
to obtain an act of Parliament for the proper regula-
tion of the Indian commerce, and providing a fund,
by laying a duty on the trade, for the support of
superintendents, commissaries, interpreters, etc., at
particular forts in the Indian country, where the
trade was to be carried on; and as a part of this
system it was thought proper, in order to avoid fu-
ture complaints from the Indians, on account of en-
croachments on their hunting-grounds, to purchase a
large tract of territory from them, and establish, with
their consent, a respectable boundary line, beyond
which his Majesty's subjects should not be permitted
to settle.

In consequence of this system, orders were trans-
mitted to Sir William Johnson, in the year 1764, to
call together the Six Nations, lay this proposition of
the boundary before them, and take their opinion
upon it. This, we apprehend, will appear evident
from the following speech, made by Sir William to

12 The Works of [1772-3

the Six Nations, at a conference which he held with
them at Johnson Hall, May the 2d, 1765.

"Brethren:

"The last, but the most important affair I have at
this time to mention is, with regard to the settling a
boundary between you and the English. I sent a
message to some of your nation some time ago, to
acquaint you that I should confer with you at this
meeting upon it. The king, whose generosity and
forgiveness you have already experienced, being very
desirous to put a final end to disputes between his
people and you concerning lands, and to do you strict
justice, has fallen upon the plan of a boundary be-
tween our provinces and the Indians, which no white
man shall dare to invade, as the best and surest
method of ending such like disputes, and securing
your property to you beyond a possibility of dis-
turbance. This will, I hope, appear to you so rea-
sonable, so just on the part of the king, and so
advantageous to you and your posterity, that I can
have no doubt of your cheerfully joining with me in
settling such a division line, as will be best for the
advantage of both white men and Indians, and as
shall best agree with the extent and increase of each
province, and the governors, whom I shall consult
upon that occasion, so soon as I am fully empowered;
but in the meantime I am desirous to know in what
manner you would choose to extend it, and what you
will agree heartily to, and abide by, in general terms.
At the same time I am to acquaint you that whenever
the whole is settled, and that it shall appear you have

1772-3] Benjamin Franklin 13

so far consulted the increasing state of our people as
to make any convenient cessions of ground where it
is most wanted, then you will receive a considerable
present in return for your friendship."

To this speech the sachems and warriors of the Six
Nations, after conferring some time among them-
selves, gave an answer to Sir William Johnson, and
agreed to the proposition of the boundary line;
which answer, and the other transactions of this con-
ference. Sir William transmitted to the office of the
Lords Commissioners for Trade and Plantations.

From a change of the administration, which formed
the above system of obtaining an act of Parliament
for regulating the Indian trade and establishing the
boundary Une, or from some other public cause,
unknown to us, no measures were adopted, until
the latter end of the year 1767, for completing the
negotiations about this boundary line. But in the
meantime, viz., between the years 1765 and 1768,
the king's subjects removed in great numbers from
Virginia, Maryland, and Pennsylvania, and settled
over the mountains; upon which account the Six
Nations became so irritated that in the year 1766
they killed several persons, and denounced a general
war against the middle colonies; and to appease
them, and to avoid such a public calamity, a detach-
ment from the forty-second regiment of foot was that
year sent from the garrison of Fort Pitt, to remove
such settlers as were seated at Red-Stone Creek, etc. ;
but the endeavors and threats of this detachment
proved ineffectual, and they returned to the garrison

14 The Works of [1772-3

without being able to execute their orders. The com-
plaints of the Six Nations, however, continuing and
increasing, on account of the settling of their lands
over the mountains, General Gage wrote to the govern-
or of Pennsylvania on the 7th of December, 1767,
and after mentioning these complaints, he observed:

" You are a witness how little attention has been
paid to the several proclamations that have been
published, and that even the removing those people
from the lands in question, which was attempted this
summer by the garrison at Fort Pitt, has been only
a temporary expedient. We learn they are returned
again to the same encroachments, on Red- Stone Creek
and Cheat River, in greater numbers than ever."

On the 5th of January, 1768, the governor of
Pennsylvania sent a message to the General Assembly
of the province, with the foregoing letter from Gen-
eral Gage; and on the 13th the Assembly, in the
conclusion of a message to the governor on the sub-
ject of Indian complaints, observed:

"To obviate which cause of their discontent, and
effectually to establish between them and his Ma-
jesty's subjects a durable peace, we are of opinion
that a speedy confirmation of the boundary, and a
just satisfaction made to them for their lands on this
side of it, are absolutely necessary. By this means
all their present complaints of encroachments will be
removed, and the people on our frontiers will have a
sufficient country to settle or hunt in, without in-
terfering with them."

On the 19th of January, 1768, Mr. Galloway, the
Speaker of the Assembly of Pennsylvania, and the

1772-3] Benjamin Franklin 15

committee of correspondence, wrote on the subject of
the Indians' disquietude, by order of the House, to
their agents, Richard Jackson and Benjamin Frank-
Hn in London, and therein they said:

" That the delay of the confirmation of the bound-
ary the natives have warmly complained of, and
that, although they have received no consideration
for the lands agreed to be ceded to the crown on our
side of the boundary, yet that its subjects are daily
settling and occupying those very lands."

In April, 1768, the legislature of Pennsylvania find-
ing that the expectations of an Indian war were hourly
increasing, occasioned by the settlement of the lands
over the mountains, not sold by the natives, and flat-
tering themselves that orders would soon arrive from
England for the perfection of the boundary line, they
voted the sum of one thousand pounds, to be given
as a present, in blankets, strouds, etc., to the Indians
upon the Ohio, with a view of moderating their re-
sentment until these orders should arrive. And the
governor of Pennsylvania being informed that a
treaty was soon to be held at Fort Pitt by George
Croghan, deputy agent of Indian affairs, by order of
General Gage and Sir William Johnson, he sent his
secretary and another gentleman, as commissioners
from the province, to deliver the above present to the
Indians at Fort Pitt.

On the 2d of May, 1768, the Six Nations made
the following speech at that conference :

" Brother:

"It is not without grief that we see our country

1 6 The Works of [1772-3

settled by you, without our knowledge or consent
and it is a long time since we complained to you of
this grievance, which we find has not as yet been
redressed ; but settlements are still extending farther
into our country ; some of them are made directly on
our war-path, leading into our enemies' country, and
we do not like it. Brother, you have laws among
you to govern your people by; and it will be the
strongest proof of the sincerity of your friendship, to
let us see that you remove the people from our lands ;
as we look upon it, they will have time enough to set-
tle them, when you have purchased them, and the
country becomes yours."

The Pennsylvania commissioners, in answer to this
speech, informed the Six Nations that the governor
of that province had sent four gentlemen with his
proclamation and the act of assembly (making it
felony of death without benefit of clergy, to continue
on Indian lands) to such settlers over the mountains
as were seated within the limits of Pennsylvania, re-
quiring them to vacate their settlements, but all to
no avail ; that the governor of Virginia had likewise,
to as little purpose, issued his proclamations and
orders; and that General Gage had twice ineffectu-
ally sent parties of soldiers to remove the settlers
from Red-Stone Creek and Monongahela.

As soon as Mr. Jackson and Dr. Franklin received
the foregoing instructions from the General Assem-
bly of Pennsylvania, they waited upon the American
minister, and urged the expediency and necessity of
the boundary line being speedily concluded ; and, in

1772-3] Benjamin Franklin 17

consequences thereof, additional orders were immedi-
ately transmitted to Sir William Johnson for that
purpose.

It is plain, therefore, that the proclamation of Oc-
tober, 1763, was not designed, as the Lords Com-
missioners for Trade and Plantations have suggested,
to signify the policy of this kingdom against settle-
ments over the Alleghany Moimtains, after the king
had actually purchased the territory; and that the
true reasons for purchasing the lands comprised
within that boundary were to avoid an Indian rup-
ture, and give an opportuntiy to the king's subjects
quietly and lawfully to settle thereon.

V. Whether the Lords Commissioners for Trade
and Plantations are well founded in their declara-
tions, that the lands under consideration " are out of
all advantageous intercourse with this kingdom,"
shall be fully considered in our observations on the
sixth paragraph; and, as to " the various proposi-
tions for erecting new colonies in the interior parts,"
which, their Lordships say, "have been, in con-
sequence of the extension of the boundary line,
submitted to the consideration of government,
particularly in that part of the country wherein are
situated the lands now prayed for, and the dangers of
complying with such proposals have been so obvious
as to defeat every attempt for carrying them into
execution," we shall only observe on this paragraph,
that, as we do not know what these propositions
were, or upon what principle the proposers have
been defeated, it is impossible for us to judge
whether they are any ways applicable to our case.

VOL. VI.— 2.

1 8 The Works of [1772-3

Consistent, however, with our knowledge, no more
than one proposition for the settlement of a part of
the lands in question has been presented to govern-
ment, and that was from Dr. Lee, thirty-two other
Americans, and two Londoners, in the year 1768,
praying that his Majesty would grant to them, with-
out any purchase money two millions five hundred
thousand acres of land, in one or more surveys, to be
located between the thirty-eighth and forty-second
degrees of latitude, over the Alleghany Mountains,
and on condition of their possessing these lands
twelve years without the payment of any quit-rent,
(the same not to begin until the whole two millions
five hundred thousand acres were surveyed,) and
that they should be obliged to settle two hundred
families in twelve years. Surely, the Lords Com-
missioners did not mean this proposition as one that
was similar and would apply to the case now reported
upon; and especially as Dr. Lee and his associates
did not propose, as we do, either to purchase the
lands, or pay the quit-rents to his Majesty, neat and
clear of all deductions, or be at the whole expense of
establishing and maintaining the civil government of
the country.

VL In the sixth paragraph the Lords Commis-
sioners observe that "every argument on the sub-
ject, respecting the settlement of the lands in that
part of the country now prayed for, is collected to-
gether with great force and precision in a representa-
tion made to his Majesty by the Lords Commissioners
for Trade and Plantations, in March, 1768."

That it may be clearly understood, what was the

1772-3] Benjamin Franklin 19

occasion of this representation, we shall take the
liberty of mentioning that, on the ist of October,
1767, and during the time that the Earl of Shelburne
was Secretary of State for the southern department,
an idea was entertained of forming, "at the expense
of the crown," three new governments in North
America, viz. : one at Detroit, on the waters between
Lake Huron and Lake Erie, one in the Illinois
country, and one on the lower part of the river Ohio ;
and, in consequence of such idea, a reference was
made by his Lordship to the Lords Commissioners
for Trade and Plantations, for their opinion upon
these proposed new governments.

Having explained the cause of the representation,
which is so very strongly and earnestly insisted upon
by the Lords Commissioners for Trade and Planta-
tions, as containing "every argument on the subject
of the lands which is at present before your Lord-
ships," we shall now give our reasons for apprehend-
ing that it is so far from applying against our case,
that it actually declares a permission would be given
to settle the very lands in question.

Three principal reasons are assigned in the repre-
sentation, as conducive to "the great object of colo-
nizing upon the continent of North America," viz. :

First — Promoting the advantageous fishery carried
on upon the northern coast.

Secondly — Encouraging the growth and culture of
naval stores, and of raw materials, to be transported
hither, in exchange for perfect manufactures and
other merchandise.

Thirdly — Securing a supply of lumber, provisions,

20 The Works of [1772-3

and other necessaries, for the support of our estab-
hshments in the American islands.

On the first of these reasons, we apprehend, it is
not necessary for us to make many observations ; as
the provinces of New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Mary-
land, and Virginia, and the colonies southward of
them, have not, and from the nature of their situa-
tion and commerce will not, promote the fishery
more, it is conceived, than the proposed Ohio colony.
These provinces are, however, beneficial to this king-
dom in culture and exportation of different articles;
as it is humbly presumed the Ohio colony will like-
wise be, if the production of staple commodities is
allowed to be within that description.

On the second and third general reasons of the
representation, we shall observe that no part of his
Majesty's dominions in North America will require
less encouragement "for the growth and culture of
naval stores and raw materials, and for the supplying
the islands with limiber, provisions," etc., than the
solicited colony on the Ohio; and for the following
reasons :

First. The lands in question are excellent, the cli-
mate temperate; the native grapes, silk-worms, and
mulberry-trees are ever3rwhere ; hemp grows sponta-
neously in the valleys and low lands; iron ore is
plenty in the hills ; and no soil is better adapted for
the culture of tobacco, flax, and cotton, than that of
the Ohio.

Secondly. The country is well watered by several
navigable rivers, communicating with each other;
and by which, and a short land carriage of only forty

1772-3] Benjamin Franklin 21

miles, the produce of the lands of the Ohio can, even
now, be sent cheaper to the seaport town of Alex-
andria, on the river Potomac (where General Brad-
dock's transports landed his troops), than any kind
of merchandise is at this time sent from Northamp-
ton to London.

Thirdly. The river Ohio is, at all seasons of the
year, navigable for large boats, like the west country
barges, rowed only by four or five men; and, from
January to the month of April, large ships may be
built on the Ohio, and sent laden with hemp, iron,
flax, silk, to this kingdom.

Fourthly. Flour, corn, beef, ship-plank, and other
necessaries can be sent down the stream of Ohio to
West Florida, and from thence to the islands, much
cheaper, and in better order, than from New York or
Philadelphia.

Fifthly. Hemp, tobacco, iron, and such bulky
articles can also be sent down the stream of the
Ohio to the sea, at least fifty per centum cheaper
than these articles were ever carried by land car-
riage, of only sixty miles, in Pennsylvania; where
wagonage is cheaper than in any other part of North
America.

Sixthly. The expense of transporting British
manufactures from the sea to the Ohio colony will
not be so much as is now paid, and must ever be paid,
to a great part of the counties of Pennsylvania, Vir-
ginia, and Maryland.

From this state of facts, we apprehend, it is clear
that the lands in question are altogether capable, and
will advantageously admit, from their fertility,

2 2 The Works of [1772-3

situation, and the small expense attending the ex-
porting the produce of them to this kingdom, of
conducing to " the great object of colonizing upon the
continent of North America ' ' ; but, that we may more
particularly elucidate this important point, we shall
take the freedom of observing that it is not disputed,
but even acknowledged by the very report now under
consideration, that the climate and the soil of the
Ohio are as favorable as we have described them ; and,
as to the native silk-worms, it is a truth that above
ten thousand weight of cocoons was, in August, 1771,
sold at the public filature in Philadelphia; and that
the silk produced from the native worm is of a good
quality, and has been much approved of in this
city.

As to hemp, we are ready to make it appear that
it grows as we have represented, spontaneously, and
of a good texture, on the Ohio. When, therefore,
the increasing dependence of this kingdom upon
Russia for this very article is considered, and that
none has been exported from the sea-coast American
colonies, as their soil will not easily produce it, this
dependence must surely be admitted as a subject of
great national consequence, and worthy of the serious
attention of government. Nature has pointed out to
us, where any quantity of hemp can be soon and
easily raised; and by that means, not only a large
amount of specie may be retained yearly in this king-
dom, but our own subjects can be employed most ad-
vantageously, and paid in the manufactures of this
kingdom. The state of the Russian trade is briefly
thus:

1772-3] Benjamin Franklin 23

From the year 1722101731, two hundred and fifty
ships were, on a medium, sent each year to St.
Petersburg, Narva, Riga, and Archangel, for
hemp 250 ships

And from the year 1762101771, five hundred ships
were also sent for that purpose . . . 500

Increase in ten years . . . . . -250 ships

Here, then, it is obvious that in the last ten years
there was, on a medium, an increase of two hundred
and fifty ships in the Russian trade. Can it be con-
sistent with the wisdom and policy of the greatest
naval and commercial nation in the world, to depend
wholly on foreigners for the supply of an article, in
which is included the very existence of her navy and
commerce? Surely not; and especially when God
has blessed us with a country yielding nattirally the
very commodity which draws our money from us,
and renders us dependent on Russia for it/

I " It is in settlements on the Mississippi and Ohio that we must look
for hemp and flax, which may in those fertile tracts be ctdtivated in
such abundance as to enable us to undersell all the world, as well as
supply our own consumption. It is on those high, dry, and healthy
lands that vineyards would be cultivated to the best advantage, as
many of those hills contain quarries of stone; and not in the low,
unhealthy sea-coasts of our present colonies. Of such infinite conse-
quence to Britain is the production of staples in her colonies, that,
were all the people of the northern settlements, and all of the tobacco
ones (except those actually employed in raising tobacco), now spread
over those parts of our territories to the southward and westward, and
consequently employed in the same manner as the few who do reside
therein, Britain, in such a case, would export to the amount of about
nine millions more in manufactures, etc., than she does at present, with-
out reckoning the infinite increase in public revenue, freight, and sea-
men, which would accrue. To enlarge upon all the advantages of such
a change would be impertinence itself." — Political Essays Concerning
the British Empire.

24 The Works of [1772-3

As we have only hitherto generally stated the small
expense of carriage between the waters of the Poto-
mac and those of the Ohio, we shall now endeavor
to show how very ill-founded the Lords of Trade and
Plantations are, in the fifth paragraph of their re-
port, viz., that the lands in question "are out of all
advantageous intercourse with this kingdom." In
order, however, that a proper opinion may be formed
on this important article, we shall take the liberty of
stating the particular expense of carriage, even during
the last French war, when there was no back carriage
from Ohio to Alexandria; as it will be found, it was
even then only about a halfpenny per pound, as will
appear from the following account, the truth of which
we shall fully ascertain, viz. :

From Alexandria to Fort Cumberland, by water,

per hundred weight ...... is. 'jd.

From Fort Cumberland to Red - Stone Creek, at
fourteen dollars per wagon - load, each wagon
carrying fifteen hundred weight . . . .42

55. 9(f.

Note. — The distance was then seventy miles, but
by a new wagon road, lately made, it is now but forty
miles; a saving of course of above one half the 55.
gd. is at present experienced.

If it is considered that this rate of carriage was in
time of war, and when there were no inhabitants on
the Ohio, we cannot doubt but every intelligent mind
will be satisfied that it is now much less than is daily
paid in London for the carriage of coarse woollens,

1772-3] Benjamin Franklin 25

cutlery, iron-ware, etc., from several counties in
England.

The following is the cost of carriage from Birming-
ham, etc., viz. :

From Birmingham to London, is . 4s. per cwt.

From Walsall in Staffordshire 5

From Sheffield 8

From Warrington . . . .7

If the lands which are at present under considera-
tion are, as the Lords Commissioners for Trade and
Plantations say, " out of all advantageous intercourse
with this kingdom," we are at a loss to conceive by
what standard that board calculates the rate of " ad-
vantageous intercourse." If the king's subjects, set-
tled over the Alleghany Moim tains, and on the Ohio,
within the new-erected county of Bedford, in the
province of Pennsylvania, are altogether clothed with
British manufactures, as is the case, is that county
"out of all advantageous intercourse with this king-
dom?" If merchants in London are now actually
shipping British manufactures for the use of the very
settlers on the lands in question, does that exporta-
tion come within the Lords Commissioners' description
of what is "out of all advantageous intercourse with
this kingdom ? " In short, the Lords Commissioners
admit, upon their own principles, that it is a political
and advantageous intercourse with this kingdom,
when the settlements and settlers are confined to
the eastern side of the Alleghany Mountains. Shall,
then, the expense of carriage, even of the very coars-
est and heaviest cloths, or other articles, from the

26 The Works of [1772-3

mountains to the Ohio, only about seventy miles,
and which will not at most increase the price of car-
riage above a halfpenny a yard, convert the trade
and connection with the settlers on the Ohio into a
predicament "that shall be," as the Lords Com-
missioners have said, "out of all advantageous in-
tercourse with this kingdom ' ' ?

On the whole, "if the poor Indians in the remote
parts of North America, are now able to pay for the
linens, woollens, and iron-ware they are furnished
with by English traders, though Indians have nothing
but what they get by himting, and the goods are
loaded with all the impositions fraud and knavery can
contrive to enhance their value, will not industrious
English farmers," employed in the culture of hemp,
flax, silk, etc., "be able to pay for what shall be
brought to them in the fair way of commerce ' ' ; and
especially when it is remembered that there is no
other allowable market for the sale of these articles,
than in this kingdom? And if "the growths of the
country find their way out of it, will not the manufac-
tures of this kingdom, where the hemp, etc., must be
sent to, find their way into it?"

Whether Nova Scotia, and East and West Florida
have yielded advantages and returns equal to the
enormous sums expended in founding and supporting
them, or even advantages such as the Lords Com-
missioners for Trade and Plantations, in their repre-
sentation of 1768, seemed to expect, it is not our
business to investigate; it is, we presume, sufficient
for us to mention that those " many principal persons
in Pennsylvania," as is observed in the representation

1772-3] Benjamin Franklin 27

"whose names and association lie before your Ma-
jesty in Council, for the purpose of making settle-
ments in Nova Scotia," have, several years since,
been convinced of the impracticability of exciting
settlers to move from the middle colonies and settle
in that province; and even of those who were pre-
vailed on to go to Nova Scotia, the greater part of
them returned with great complaints against the
severity and length of the winters.

As to East and West Florida, it is, we are per-
suaded, morally impossible to force the people of
the middle provinces, between thirty-seven and forty
degrees north latitude, (where there is plenty of va-
cant land in their own temperate climate,) to remove
to the scorching, unwholesome heats of those pro-
vinces.' The inhabitants of Montpellier might as soon
and easily be persuaded to remove to the northern
parts of Russia, or to Senegal.

In short, it is contending with nature, and the ex-
perience of all ages, to attempt to compel a people
bom and living in a temperate climate, and in the
neighborhood of a rich, healthful, and imcultivated
country, to travel several hundred miles to a seaport
in order to make a voyage to sea, and settle either in

^ "We think of nothing but extending our settlements still further
on these pestiferous sea-coasts, even to the sunken lagunes of East
Florida, and the barren sands of Mobile and Pensacola. The only use
of new settlements in North America is for the people in the northern
and other colonies who want lands to make staple commodities for
Britain, to remove to them; but none will ever go to Florida, or thrive
in it, more than they have done in Carolina and Georgia. The climate
of Florida is more intemperate, the lands more barren, and the situa-
tion much worse in every respect. — State of Great Britain and America,
by Dr. Mitchell.

28 The Works of [1772-3

extreme hot or cold latitudes. If the county of York
was vacant and uncultivated, and the more southern
inhabitants of this island were in want of land, would
they suffer themselves to be driven to the north of
Scotland? Would they not, in spite of all opposi-
tion, first possess themselves of that fertile county?
Thus much we have thought necessary to remark, in
respect to the general principles laid down in the
representation of 1768 ; and we hope we have shown
that the arguments therein made use of do not in
any degree militate against the subject in question,
but that they were intended and do solely apply to
"new colonies proposed to be established," as the
representation says, " at an expense to this kingdom,
at the distance of above fifteen hundred miles from
the sea, which, from their inability to find returns
wherewith to pay for the manufactures of Great
Britain, will be probably led to manufacture for them-
selves, as they would," continues the representation,
"be separated from the old colonies by immense
tracts of unpeopled desert. ' '

It now only remains for us to inquire whether it
was the intention of the Lords Commissioners for
Trade and Plantations in 1768, that the territory
which would be included within the boundary line
then negotiating with the Indians (and which was
the one that was that year perfected) should continue
a useless wilderness, or be settled and occupied by
his Majesty's subjects.

The very representation itself, which, the present
Lords Commissioners for Trade and Plantations say,
contains "every argument on the subject," furnishes

1772-3] Benjamin Franklin 29

us an ample and satisfactory solution to this impor-
tant question. The Lords Commissioners in 1768,
after pronouncing their opinion against the proposed
three new governments, as above stated, declare
"they ought to be carefully guarded against, by en-
couraging the settlement of that extensive tract of
sea-coast hitherto unoccupied; which," say their
Lordships, " together with the liberty the inhabitants
of the middle colonies will have (in consequence of
the proposed boundary line with the Indians) of
gradually extending themselves backwards, will more
effectually and beneficially answer the object of en-
couraging population and consumption, than the
erection of new governments ; such gradual extension
might, through the medium of a continual popula-
tion, upon even the same extent of territory, pre-
serve a communication of mutual commercial benefits
between its extremest parts and Great Britain, im-
possible to exist in colonies separated by immense
tracts of unpeopled desert.

Can any opinion be more clear and conclusive in
favor of the proposition which we have himibly sub-
mitted to his Majesty? For their Lordships posi-
tively say that the inhabitants of the middle colonies
will have liberty of gradually extending themselves
backwards. But is it not very extraordinary that
after near two years' deliberation the present Lords
Commissioners for Trade and Plantations should
make a report to the Lords of the Committee of the
Privy Council, and therein expressly refer to that
opinion of 1768, in which they say "every argimient
on the subject is collected together with great force

30 The Works of [1772-3

and precision," and yet that almost in the same
breath their Lordships should contravene that very-
opinion, and advise his Majesty "to check the pro-
gress of these settlements," and that " settlements in
that distant part of the country ought to be dis-
couraged as much as possible, and another proclama-
tion should be issued declaratory of his Majesty's
resolution, not to allow for the present any new settle-
ment beyond the line," to wit, beyond the Alleghany
Mountains? How strange and contradictory is this
conduct! But we forbear any strictures upon it,
and shall conclude our remarks on this head by stat-
ing the opinion at different times of the Lords Com-
missioners for Trade and Plantations on this subject.

In 1748 their Lordships expressed the strongest
desire to promote settlements over the mountains and
on the Ohio.

In 1768 the then Lords Commissioners for Trade
and Plantations declared (in consequence of the
boundary line at that time negotiating) that the in-
habitants of the middle colonies would have liberty
of gradually extending themselves backwards.

In 1770 the Earl of Hillsborough actually recom-
mended the purchase of a tract of land over the
mountains sufficient for a new colony, and then went
down to the Lords Commissioners of the Treasury
to know whether their Lordships would treat with
Mr. Walpole and his associates for such purchase.

In 1772 the Earl of Hillsborough and the other
Lords Commissioners of Trade and Plantations made
a report on the petition of Mr. Walpole and his asso-
ciates, and referred to the representation of the Board

1772-3] Benjamin Franklin 31

of Trade in 1768 "as containing every argument on
the subject, collected together with force and pre-
cision," which representation declared, as we have
shown, "that the inhabitants of the middle colonies
will have liberty to extend backwards ' ' on the identi-
cal lands in question, and yet, notwithstanding such
reference, so strongly made from the present Board
of Trade to the opinion of that board, the Earl of
Hillsborough and the other Lords Commissioners
for Trade and Plantations have now, in direct terms,
reported against the absolute engagement and opin-
ion of the board in 1768.

It may be asked, what was intended by the ex-
pressions in the representation of 1768 "of gradually
extending themselves backwards"? It is answered,
they were only in contradistinction to the proposal
of erecting at that time three new governments at
Detroit, etc., and "thereby exciting," as the repre-
sentation says, "the stream of population to various
distant places." In short, it was, we think, beyond
all doubt, the "precise" opinion of the Lords Com-
missioners in 1768, that the territory within the
boundary line then negotiating and since completed,
would be sufficient at that time to answer the object
of population and consumption, and that until that
territory was fully occupied, it was not necessary to
erect the proposed three new governments " at an ex-
pense to this kingdom," in places, as their Lordships
observed, "separated by immense tracts of unpeo-
pled desert."

To conclude our observations on the sixth para-
graph, we would just remark that we presume we

32 The Works of [1772-3

have demonstrated that the inhabitants of the mid-
dle colonies cannot be compelled to exchange the soil
and climate of these colonies, either for the severe
colds of Nova Scotia and Canada, or the unwhole-
some heats of East and West Florida. Let us next
inquire what would be the effect of confining these
inhabitants, it if was practicable, within narrow
bounds, and thereby preventing them from exercising
their natural inclination of cultivating lands; and
whether such restriction would not force them into
manufactures, to rival the mother country. To these
questions, the Lords Commissioners have with much
candor replied, in their representation of 1 768. " We
admit," said their Lordships, " as an undeniable prin-
ciple of true policy, that, with a view to prevent
maniifactures, it is necessary and proper to open
an extent of territory for colonization, proportioned
to an increase of people, as a large number of
inhabitants, cooped up in narrow limits, without
a sufficiency of land for produce, would be com-
pelled to convert their attention and industry
to manufactures." But their Lordships at the
same time observe: "That the encouragement
given to the settlement of the colonies upon the
sea-coast, and the effect which such encouragement
has had, has already effectually provided for this
object."

In what parts of North America this encourage-
ment has thus provided for population, their Lord-
ships have not mentioned. If the establishment of
the government of Quebec, Nova Scotia, and the
island of St. John's, or East and West Florida, was

1772-3] Benjamin Franklin 33

intended by their Lordships as that effectual pro-
vision, we shall presume to deny the proposition, by
asserting, as an undoubted truth, that, although there
is at least a million of subjects in the middle colonies,
none have emigrated from thence, and settled in these
new provinces ; and for that reason, and from the very
nature of colonization itself, we affirm that none will
ever be induced to exchange the healthy, temperate
climate of Virginia, Maryland, and Pennsylvania, for
the extreme colds or heats of Canada and Nova
Scotia, or East and West Florida.

In short, it is not in the power of government to
give any encouragement, that can compensate for a
desertion of friends and neighbors, dissolution of
family connection, and abandoning a soil and climate
infinitely superior to those of Canada, Nova Scotia, or
the Floridas. Will not therefore the inhabitants of
the middle provinces, whose population is great be-
yond example,' and who have already made some
advances in manufactures, "by confining them to
their present narrow limits, ' ' be necessarily compelled
to convert their whole attention to that object ? How
then shall this, in the nature of things, be prevented,
except, as the Lords Commissioners have justly
remarked, "by opening an extent of territory
proportioned to their increase ? ' ' But where shall a

I "Besides staple commodities, there is another more material point
to be considered in the colonies, which is their great and daily increase;
and for which, unless we make provision in time, they can never sub-
sist by a dependence on Britain. There are at present (in the year
1770) nigh three millions of people in them, who may, in twenty or
thirty years, increase to six millions, as many as there are in England."
— ^Wynne's History of the British Empire in America, Vol. II., p. 398.

VOL. VI. 3.

34 The Works of [1772-3

territory be found proper for " the colonization of the
inhabitants of the middle colonies ' ' ? We answer, in
the very country which the Lords Commissioners
have said that the inhabitants of these colonies would
have liberty to settle in ; a country which his Majesty
has purchased from the Six Nations ; one where sev-
eral thousands of his subjects are already settled ; and
one where, the Lords Commissioners have acknow-
ledged, " a gradual extension might, through the
medium of a continued population, upon even the
same extent of territory, preserve a communication
of mutual commercial benefits between its extremest
parts and Great Britain." '

VI L This paragraph is introduced by referring to
the extract of a letter from the commander-in-chief
of his Majesty's forces in North America, laid by the
Earl of Hillsborough before the Lords Commission-
ers for Trades and Plantations. But, as their Lord-
ships have not mentioned either the general's name,
or the time when the letter was written, or what
occasioned his delivering his opinion upon the sub-
ject of colonization in general, in the "remote coun-
tries," we can only conjecture that General Gage

I "Thus the use the nation has for new settlements and acquisitions
in North America is for the great increase of the people who are already
there, and to enable them to subsist by a dependence upon her; which
they can never do, unless they extejid their settlements." — Wynne's
History, Vol. II., p. 399.

"Unprejudiced men well know, that all the penal and prohibitory
laws that ever were thought of, will not be sufficient to prevent manu-
factures in a country whose inhabitants surpass the number that can
subsist on the husbandry of it; and this will be the case soon, if our
people remain confined within the mountains," etc. — The Interest of
Great Britain considered with regard to the Colonies, p. 17. Published
in 1761.

1 772-31 Benjamin Franklin 35

was the writer of the letter, and that it was written
about the year 1768, when the plan of the three new
governments was under the consideration of the
then Lords Commissioners for Trade and Planta-
tions, and before the lands on the Ohio were bought
from, and the boundary line established with, the
Six Nations.

Indeed, we think it clear that the general had
no other lands, at that time, imder his consideration,
than what he calls "remote countries," such as the
Detroit, Illinois, and the lower parts of the Ohio; for
he speaks of "foreign coimtries," from which it
"would be too far to transport some kind of naval
stores," and for the same reason could not, he says,
supply the sugar islands "with lumber and provi-
sions." He mentions, also, "planting colonies at so
vast a distance that the very long transportation (of
silk, wine, etc.) must probably make them too dear
for any market," and where "the inhabitants could
not have any commodities to barter for manufactures,
except skins and furs." And what, in our opinion,
fully evinces that the general was giving his senti-
ments upon settlements at Detroit, etc., and not on
the territory in question, is, that he says, " It will be
a question, likewise, whether colonization of this kind
could be effected without an Indian war, and fighting
for every inch of the ground."

Why the Lords Commissioners for Trade and
Plantations should encumber their report with the
opinion of General Gage on what he calls the settle-
ment of a "foreign country," that could not be
effected without " fighting for every inch of groimd,"

36 The Works of [1772-3

and how their Lordships could apply that case to the
settlement of a territory purchased by his Majesty
near four years ago, and now inhabited by several
thousand British subjects, whom the Indians them-
selves living on the northern side of the Ohio (as
shall be fully shown in the course of these observa-
tions) have earnestly requested may be immediately
governed, we confess we are wholly at a loss to
comprehend.

VIII. The eighth paragraph highly extols, not
only the accuracy and precision of the foregoing re-
presentation of the Lords of Trade in 1768, (which, as
has been before observed, expressed that the inhabi-
tants of the middle colonies would have liberty to
settle over the mountains and on the Ohio,) but also
the above-mentioned letter from the commander-in-
chief in America; and at the same time introduces
the sentiments of Mr. Wright, governor of Georgia,
" on the subject of large grants in the interior parts
of America."

When this letter was written ; what was the occa-
sion of the governor's writing it; whether he was
then, from his own knowledge, acquainted with the
situation of the country over the mountains, with
the disposition of the middle colonies, with the
capability of the Ohio country, from its soil, climate,
or communication with the river Potomac, etc., to
supply this kingdom with silk, flax, hemp, etc. ; and
whether the principal part of Mr. Wright's estate is
on the sea-coast in Georgia, are facts which we wish
had been stated, that it might be known whether
Governor Wright's "knowledge and experience in

1772-3] Benjamin Franklin 37

the affairs of the colonies ought," as the Lords of
Trade mention, " to give great weight to his opinion,"
on the present occasion.

The doctrine insisted upon by Governor Wright
appears to us reducible to the following propositions,
viz.:

1. That if a vast territory be granted to any set
of gentlemen, who really mean to people it, and
actually do so, it must draw and carry out a great
number of people from Great Britain.

2. That they will soon become a kind of separate
and independent people; who will set up for them-
selves, will soon have manufactures of their own,
will neither take supplies from the mother country
nor the provinces at the back of which they are
settled ; that, being at such a distance from the seat
of government, from courts, magistrates, etc., and
out of the control of law and government, they will
become a receptacle for offenders, etc.

3. That the sea-coast should be thickly settled
with inhabitants, and be well cultivated and im-
proved, etc.

4. That his ideas are not chimerical; that he
knows something of the situation and state of things
in America; and, from some httle occurrences that
have happened, he can very easily figure to himself
what may, and, in short, what will certainly happen,
if not prevented in time.

On these propositions we shall take the liberty of
making a few observations.

To the first we answer we shall, we are persuaded,
satisfactorily prove that in the middle colonies, viz. :

38 The Works of [1772-3

New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Maryland, and Virginia,
there is hardly any vacant land, except such as is
monopolized by great landholders, for the purpose
of selling at high prices; that the poor people of
these colonies, with large families of children, cannot
pay these prices; and that several thousand fam-
ilies, for that reason, have already settled upon the
Ohio ; that we do not wish for, and shall not encour-
age, one single family of his Majesty's European
subjects to settle there, (and this we have no objec-
tion to be prevented from doing,) but shall wholly
rely on the voluntary superflux of the inhabitants
of the middle provinces for settling and cultivating
the lands in question.

On the second it is not, we presume, necessary for
us to say more, than that all the conjectiu-es and
suppositions "of being a kind of separate and inde-
pendent people," etc., entirely lose their force, on
the proposition of a government being established
on the grant applied for, as the Lords of Trade
themselves acknowledged.

On the third we would only briefly remark that
we have fully answered this objection in the latter
part of our answer to the sixth paragraph.

And as the fourth proposition is merely the gov-
ernor's declaration of his knowledge of something of
the situation and state of things in America, and
that from some little occurrences, that have already
really happened, he can very easily figure to him-
self what may and certainly will happen if not pre-
vented in time, we say that, as the governor has not
mentioned what these little occurrences are, we can-

1772-3] Benjamin Franklin 39

not pretend to judge whether what he figures
to himself is in any ways relative to the object
iinder consideration, or, indeed, what else it is
relative to.

But, as the Lords Commissioners for Trade and
Plantations have thought proper to insert in their
report the above-mentioned letters from General
Gage and Governor Wright, it may not be improper
for us to give the opinion of his Majesty's House of
Burgesses of the dominion of Virginia on the very
point in question, as conveyed to his Majesty in
their address of the 4th of August, 1767, and deliv-
ered the latter end of that year to the Lords
Commissioners for Trade and Plantations, by Mr.
Montague, agent for the colony. The House of Bur-
gesses say: "We humbly hope that we shall obtain
your royal indulgence, when we give it as our opinion
that it will be for your Majesty's service, and the
interest of your American dominions in general, to
continue the encouragements" (which were a total
exemption from any consideration-money whatso-
ever, and a remission of quit-rent for ten years, and
of all kinds of taxes for fifteen years) " for settHng
those frontier lands." By this means, the House
observed, "new settlements will be made by people
of property, obedient subjects to government; but
if the present restriction should continue, we have
the strongest reason to believe that country will
become the resort of fugitives and vagabonds, defiers
of law and order, and who in time may form a body
dangerous to the peace and civil government of this
colony."

40 The Works of [1772-3

We come now to the consideration of the ninth,
tenth, and eleventh paragraphs.

In the ninth, the Lords Commissioners for Trade
and Plantations observe "that, admitting the set-
tlers over the mountains and on the Ohio to be as
numerous as report states them to be" (and which
we shall, from undoubted testimony, prove to be not
less than five thousand families, of at least six per-
sons to a family, independent of some thousand
families, which are also settled over the mountains,
within the limits of the province of Pennsylvania),
yet their Lordships say " it operates strongly in point
of argument against what is proposed." And their
Lordships add: "If the foregoing reasoning has any
weight, it ought certainly to induce the Lords of the
Committee of the Privy Council to advise his Majesty
to take every method to check the progress of these
settlements, and not to make such grants of the land
as will have an immediate tendency to encourage
them."

Having, we presume, clearly shown that the coun-
try southward of the Great Kenhawa, quite to the
Cherokee River, belonged to the Six Nations, and
not to the Cherokees; that now it belongs to the
king, in virtue of his Majesty's purchase from the
Six Nations ; that neither these tribes nor the Chero-
kees do hunt between the Great Kenhawa and the
land opposite to the Scioto River; that, by the
present boundary line, the Lords Commissioners for
Trade and Plantations would sacrifice to the Chero-
kees an extent of country of at least eight hundred
miles in length, which his Majesty has bought and

1772-3] Benjamin Franklin 41

paid for ; that the real limits of Virginia do not ex-
tend westward, beyond the Alleghany Mountains;
that, since the purchase of the country from the Six
Nations, his Majesty has not annexed it, nor any
part of it, to the colony of Virginia ; that there are
no settlements made under legal titles, on any part
of the lands we have agreed for, with the Lords
Commissioners of the Treasury; that, in the year
1748, the strongest marks of royal encouragement
were given to settle the country over the mountains ;
that the suspension of this encouragement, by the
proclamation of October, 1763, was merely tem-
porary, until the lands were purchased from the
natives; that the avidity to settle these lands was
so great that large settlements were made thereon
before they were purchased ; that, although the set-
tlers were daily exposed to the cruelties of the
savages, neither a military force nor repeated procla-
mations could induce them to vacate these lands;
that the soil of the country over the mountains is
excellent, and capable of easily producing hemp,
flax, silk, tobacco, iron, wine, etc. ; that these articles
can be cheaply conveyed to a seaport for exporta-
tion ; that the charge of carriage is so very small, it
cannot possibly operate to the prevention of the use
of British manufactures; that the king's purchasing
the lands from the Indians, and fixing a boundary
line with them, was for the very purpose of his sub-
jects' setthng them; and that the Commissioners for
Trade and Plantations, in 1768, declared that the
inhabitants of the middle colonies would have lib-
erty for that purpose.

42 The Works of [1772-3

And to this train of facts let us add that, at the
congress held with the Six Nations at Fort Stanwix
in 1768, when his Majesty purchased the territory
on the Ohio, Messrs. Penn also bought from these
Nations a very extensive tract of country over the
Alleghany Mountains and on that river, joining to
the very lands in question; that in the spring of
1769 Messrs. Penn opened their land-ofhce in Penn-
sylvania, for the settling the country which they
had so bought at Fort Stanwix ; and all such settlers
as had seated themselves over the mountains, within
the limits of Pennsylvania, before the lands were
purchased from the natives, have since obtained
titles for their plantations; that, in 1771, a petition
was presented to the Assembly of the province of
Pennsylvania, praying that a new county may be
made over these mountains; that the legislature of
that province, in consideration of the great number
of families settled there, within the limits of that
province, did that year enact a law for the erection
of the lands over the mountains, into a new county,
by the name of Bedford County; that, in conse-
quence of such law, William Thompson was chosen
to represent it in the General Assembly; that a
sheriff, coroner, justices of the peace, constables, and
other civil officers are appointed and do reside over
the mountains; that all the king's subjects, who are
not less than five thousand families, who have made
locations and settlements on the lands southward of,
and adjoining to, the southern line of Pennsylvania,
live there without any degree of order, law, or gov-
ernment; that, being in this lawless situation, con-

1772-3] Benjamin Franklin 43

tinual quarrels prevail among them ; that they have
already infringed the boundary line, killed several
Indians, and encroached on the lands on the oppo-
site side of the Ohio ; and that disorders of the most
dangerous nature, with respect to the Indians, the
boundary line, and the old colonies, will soon take
place among these settlers, if law and subordination
are not immediately established among them. Can
these facts be possibly perverted so as to operate,
either in point of argument or policy, against the
proposition of governing the king's subjects on the
lands in question?

It ought to be considered, also, that we have
agreed to pay as much for a small part of the ces-
sion made at Fort Stanwix, as the whole cession cost
the crown, and at the same time to be at the entire
expense of establishing and supporting the proposed
new colony.'

I The parliamentary grants for the civil establishment of the pro-
vinces of Nova Scotia, Georgia, and East and West Florida, amount to
one million twelve thousand eight hundred and thirty-one pounds two
shillings and eight pence halfpenny, as the following account shows;
and, notwithstanding this vast expense, the king has not received any
quit-rents from these provinces. How different is the present proposi-
tion for the establishment of the Ohio colony! In this case the crown
is to be paid for the lands (and which is the first instance of any being
sold in North America). Government is to be exempted from the
expense of supporting the colony, and the king will receive his quit-
rents, neat and clear of all deductions (which deductions in the old
colonies are at least twenty per centum), as will more particularly ap-
pear by a state of the king's quit-rents annexed hereto.
The parliamentary grants above mentioned are as follows:

To Nova Scotia .... £,loT,z'2o igs. j^d.

To Georgia .... 214,610 3 i^

To East Florida .... 45-45°

To West Florida .... 45.450
See Appendix, No. II., p. 57.

44 The Works of [1772-3

The truth is, the inhabitants already settled on
this tract of country are in so ungovemed and law-
less a situation that the very Indians themselves
complain of it; so that, if they are not soon gov-
erned, an Indian war will be the inevitable conse-
quence. This, we presume, is evident, both from
the correspondence of General Gage with the Earl
of Hillsborough, and a speech of the chiefs of the
Delawares, Munsies, and Mohickons, living on the
Ohio, to the governors of Pennsylvania, Maryland,
and Virginia, lately transmitted by the General to
his Lordship.

In this speech these nations observed that, since
the sale of the lands to the king on the Ohio —

" Great numbers more of your people have come
over the great mountains and settled throughout the
country; and we are sorry to tell you that several
quarrels have happened between your people and
ours, in which people have been killed on both sides;
and that we now see the nations round us and your
people ready to embroil in a quarrel, which gives our
nations great concern, as we, on our parts, want to
live in friendship with you. As you have always told
us, you have laws to govern your people by, but
we do not see that you have; therefore, brethren,
unless you can fall upon some method of governing
your people who live between the great moun-
tains and the Ohio River, and who are very nimi-
erous, it will be out of the Indians' power to govern
their young men; for, we assure you, the black
clouds begin to gather fast in this country, and, if
something is not soon done, these clouds will deprive

1772-3] Benjamin Franklin 45

us of seeing the sun. We desire you to give the
greatest attention to what we now tell you, as it
comes from our hearts, and a desire we have to live
in peace and friendship with our brethren the Eng-
lish, and therefore it grieves us to see some of the
nations about us and your people ready to strike
each other. We find your people are very fond of
our rich land; we see them quarreUing with each
other every day about land, and burning one an-
other's houses, so that we do not know how soon
they may come over the River Ohio, and drive us
from our villages ; nor do we see you, brothers, take
any care to stop them."

This speech, from tribes of such great influence
and weight upon the Ohio, conveys much useful in-
formation : it establishes the fact of the settlers over
the mountains being very numerous; it shows the
entire approbation of the Indians in respect to a
colony being established on the Ohio ; it pathetically
complains of the king's subjects not being governed;
and it confirms the assertion mentioned by the Lords
Commissioners for Trade and Plantations in the
eighth paragraph of their report, "that, if the set-
tlers are suffered to continue in the lawless state of
anarchy and confusion, they will commit such
abuses as cannot fail of involving us in quarrels and
disputes with the Indians, and thereby endanger the
security of his Majesty's colonies."

The Lord Commissioners for Trade and Planta-
tions, however, pay no regard to all these circum-
stances, but content themselves with observing: " We
see nothing to hinder the government of Virginia

46 The Works of [1772-3

from extending the laws and constitution of that
colony to such persons as may have already settled
there under legal titles." To this we repeat that
there are no such persons as have settled under
legal titles; and even admitting there were, as their
Lordships say, in the eleventh paragraph, it appears
to them, "some possessions derived from grants
made by the governor and council of Virginia," and
allowing that the laws and constitution of Virginia
did, as they unquestionably do not, extend to this
territory, have the Lords Commissioners proposed
any expedient for governing those many thousand
families, who have not settled under legal titles, but
only agreeably to the ancient usage of location?
Certainly not. But, on the contrary, their Lord-
ships have recommended that his Majesty should be
advised to take every method to check the progress
of their settlements; and thereby leave them in
their present lawless situation, at the risk of involv-
ing the middle colonies in a war with the natives,
pregnant with a loss of subjects, loss of commerce,
and depopulation of their frontier counties.

Having made these observations, it may next be
proper to consider how the laws and constitution of
Virginia can possibly be extended so as effectually
to operate on the territory in question. Is not Wil-
liamsburg, the capital of Virginia, at least four him-
dred miles from the settlements on the Ohio? Do
not the laws of Virginia require that all persons
guilty of capital crimes shall be tried only in Wil-
liamsburg ? Is not the General Assembly held there ?
Is not the Court of King's Bench, or the superior

1772-3] Benjamin Franklin 47

court of the dominion, kept there? Has Virginia
provided any fund for the support of the officers of
these distant settlements, or for the transporting
offenders, and paying the expense of witnesses travel-
ling eight hundred miles (viz., going and returning),
and during their stay at Williamsburg? And will
not these settlers be exactly (for the reasons assigned)
in the situation described by Governor Wright, in
the very letter which the Commissioners for Trade
and Plantations have so warmly recommended, viz. :
"such persons as are settled at the back of the
provinces ; being at a distance from the seat of gov-
ernment, courts, magistrates, etc., they will be out
of the reach and control of law and government, and
their settlement will become a receptacle and a kind
of asylum for offenders ' ' ?

On the eleventh paragraph, we apprehend, it is
not necessary to say much. The reservatory clause
proposed in our memorial is what is usual in royal
grants; and in the present case the Lords of the
Committee of the Privy Council, we hope, will be of
opinion it is quite sufficient; more especially as we
are able to prove to their Lordships that there are
no "possessions," within the boundaries of the lands
under consideration, which are held "under legal
titles."

To conclude: As it has been demonstrated that
neither royal nor provincial proclamations, nor the
dread and horror of a savage war, were sufficient,
even before the country was purchased from the
Indians, to prevent the settlement of the lands over
the mountains, can it be conceived that, now the

48 The Works of [177^-3

country is purchased, and the people have seen the
proprietors of Pennsylvania, who are the hereditary
supporters of British policy in their own province,
give every degree of encouragement to settle the
lands westward of the mountains, the legislature of
the province, at the same time, effectually corrob-
orate the measure, and several thousand families, in
consequence thereof, settle in the new county of
Bedford, the inhabitants of the middle colonies will
be restrained from cultivating the luxuriant country
of the Ohio, joining to the southern line of Pennsyl-
vania? But, even admitting that it might formerly
have been a question of some propriety, whether the
coimtry should be permitted to be settled, that can-
not surely become a subject of inquiry now, when
it is an obvious and certain truth that at least thirty
thousand British subjects are already settled there.
Is it fit to leave such a body of people lawless and
ungovemed? Will sound pohcy recommend this
manner of colonizing and increasing the wealth,
strength, and commerce of the empire? Or will it
point out that it is the indispensable duty of govern-
ment to render bad subjects useful subjects; and for
that purpose immediately to establish law and sub-
ordination among them, and thereby early confirm
their native attachment to the laws, traffic, and
customs of this kingdom?

On the whole, we presume that we have, both by
facts and sound argument, shown that the opinion
of the Lords Commissioners for Trade and Planta-
tions on the object in question is not well founded;
and that if their Lordships' opinion should be

1772-3] Benjamin Franklin 49

adopted, it would be attended with the most mis-
chievous and dangerous consequences to the com-
merce, peace, and safety of his Majesty's colonies in
America.

We therefore hope the expediency and utility of
erecting the lands agreed for into a separate colony,
without delay, will be considered as a measure of
the soundest policy, highly conducive to the peace
and security of the old colonies, to the preservation
of the boundary line, and to the commercial interests
of the mother country.

APPENDIX NO. I

BY THE KING
A PROCLAMATION

George R.

Whereas we have taken into our royal consideration
the extensive and valuable acquisitions in America, se-
cured to our crown by the late definitive treaty of peace,
concluded at Paris the loth of February last; and being
desirous that all our loving subjects, as well of our king-
doms as of our colonies in America, may avail themselves,
with all convenient speed, of the great benefits and ad-
vantages which must accrue therefrom to their com-
merce, manufactures, and navigation, we have thought
fit, with the advice of our Privy Council, to issue this our
royal proclamation, hereby to publish and declare to all
our loving subjects, that we have, with the advice of our
said Privy Coimcil, granted our letters patent imder our
great seal of Great Britain, to erect within the countries
and islands, ceded and confirmed to us by the said treaty,

VOL. VI. — 4.

50 The Works of [1772-3

four distinct and separate governments, styled and called
by the names of Quebec, East Florida, West Florida, and
Grenada, and limited and boimded as follows, viz. :

First, The government of Quebec, bounded on the
Labrador coast by the River St. John, and from thence
by a line drawn from the head of that river, through the
Lake St. John, to the south end of the Lake Nipissim;
from whence the said line, crossing the River St. Law-
rence and the Lake Champlain in forty-five degrees of
north latitude, passes along the highlands which divide
the rivers that empty themselves into the said River St.
Lawrence, from those which fall into the sea; and also
along the north coast of the Bale des Chaleurs, and the
coast of the Gulf of St. Lawrence to Cape Rosieres, and
from thence crossing the mouth of the River St. Law-
rence by the west end of the Island of Anticosti, ter-
minates at the aforesaid River St. John.

Secondly, The government of East Florida, bounded to
the westward by the Gulf of Mexico and the Appalachi-
cola River ; to the northward, by a line drawn from that
part of the said river where the Chatahouchee and Flint
rivers meet, to the source of St. Mary's River, and by the
course of the said river to the Atlantic Ocean ; and to the
east and south by the Atlantic Ocean, and the Gulf of
Florida, including all islands within six leagues of the
sea-coast.

Thirdly, The government of West Florida, bounded to
the southward by the Gulf of Mexico, including all islands
within six leagues of the coast from the River Appalachi-
cola to Lake Pontchartrain ; to the westward by the said
lake, the Lake Maurepas, and the River Mississippi; to
the northward, by a line drawn due east from that part
of the Mississippi which lies in thirty-one degrees north
latitude, to the River Appalachicola or Chatahouchee;
and to the eastward by the said river.

1772-3] Benjamin Franklin 51

Fourthly, The government of Grenada, comprehending
the island of that name, together with the Grenadines,
and the Islands of Dominico, St. Vincent, and Tobago.

And to the end that the open and free fishery of our
subjects may be extended to, and carried on upon, the
coast of Labrador and the adjacent islands, we have
thought fit, with the advice of our said Privy Council, to
put all that coast from the River St. John to Hudson's
Straits, together with the islands of Anticosti and Made-
laine, and all other smaller islands lying upon the said
coast, under the care and inspection of our governor of
Newfoundland .

We have also, with the advice of our Privy Council,
thought fit to annex the islands of St. John and Cape
Breton, or Isle Royale, with the lesser islands adjacent
thereto, to our government of Nova Scotia.

We have also, with the advice of our Privy Couincil
aforesaid, annexed to our province of Georgia all the
lands lying between the rivers Altamaha and St. Mary's.

And whereas it will greatly contribute to the speedy
settling our said new governments, that our loving sub-
jects should be informed of our paternal care for the se-
curity of the liberties and properties of those who are
and shall become inhabitants thereof, we have thought
fit to publish and declare, by this our proclamation, that
we have, in our letters patent under the great seal of
Great Britain, by which the governments are constituted,
given express power and direction to our governors of our
said colonies respectively, that, so soon as the state and
circumstances of the said colonies will admit thereof,
they shall, with the advice and consent of the members
of our council, summon and call General Assemblies
within the said governments respectively, in such man-
ner and form as is used and directed in those colonies and
provinces in America which are imder our immediate

52 The Works of [1772-3

government. And we have also given power to the said
governors, with the consent of our said councils and the
representatives of the people, so to be summoned as afore-
said, to make, constitute, and ordain laws, statutes, and
ordinances for the public peace, welfare, and good gov-
ernment of our said colonies, and of the people and in-
habitants thereof, as near as may be, agreeably to the
laws of England, and under such regulations and re-
strictions as are used in other colonies; and, in the
meantime and until such assemblies can be called as
aforesaid, all persons inhabiting in, or resorting to, our
said colonies, may confide in our royal protection for the
enjoyment of the benefit of the laws of our realm of
England ; for which purpose we have given power under
our great seal to the governors of our said colonies re-
spectively, to erect and constitute, with the advice of
our said councils respectively, courts of judicature and
public justice within our said colonies, for the hearing
and determining all causes, as well criminal as civil,
according to law and equity, and, as near as may be,
agreeably to the laws of England; with liberty to all
persons, who may think themselves aggrieved by the
sentence of such courts, in all civil cases, to appeal, iinder
the usual limitations and restrictions, to us, in our Privy
Council.

We have also thought fit, with the advice of our Privy
Council as aforesaid, to give imto the governors and
councils of our said three new colonies upon the continent,
full power and authority to settle and agree with the
inhabitants of our said new colonies, or with any other
person who shall resort thereto, for such lands, tene-
ments, and hereditaments as are now or hereafter shall
be in our power to dispose of, and them to grant to any
such person or persons, upon such terms, and under such
moderate quit-rents, services, and acknowledgments, as

1772-3] Benjamin Franklin 53

have been appointed and settled in other colonies, and
under such other conditions as shall appear to us to be
necessary and expedient for the advantage of the gran-
tees, and the improvement and settlement of our said
colonies.

And whereas we are desirous, upon all occasions, to
testify our royal sense and approbation of the conduct
and bravery of the officers and soldiers of our armies,
and to reward the same, we do hereby command and
empower our governors of our said three new colonies,
and other our governors of our several provinces on the
continent of North America, to grant, without fee or
reward, to such reduced officers as have served in North
America during the late war, and are actually residing
there, and shall personally apply for the same, the fol-
lowing quantities of land, subject, at the expiration of
ten years, to the same quit-rents as other lands are sub-
ject to in the province within which they are granted, as
also subject to the same conditions of cultivation and
improvement, viz. :

To every person having the rank of a field-officer, five
thousand acres.

To every captain, three thousand acres.

To every subaltern or staff -officer, two thousand acres.

To every non-commissioned officer, two hundred acres.

To every private man, fifty acres.

We do likewise authorize and require the governors
and commanders-in-chief of all our said colonies upon
the continent of North America to grant the like quan-
tities of land, and upon the same conditions, to such
reduced officers of our navy of like rank, as served on
board our ships of war in North America at the times
of the reduction of Louisburg and Quebec in the late war,
and who shall personally apply to our respective gov-
ernors for such crrants.

54 The Works of [1772-3

And whereas it is just, and reasonable, and essential
to our interest and security of our colonies, that the sev-
eral nations and tribes of Indians, with whom we are
connected, and who live under our protection, should not
be molested or disturbed in the possession of such parts
of our dominions and territories as, not having been ceded
to, or purchased by, us, are reserved to them, or any of
them, as their himting-groimds ; we do therefore, with
the advice of our Privy Council, declare it to be our royal
will and pleasure, that no governor, or commander-in-
chief, in any of our colonies of Quebec, East Florida, or
West Florida, do presume, upon any pretence whatever,
to grant warrants of survey, or pass any patents, for lands
beyond the bounds of their respective governments, as
described in their commissions ; as also that no governor
or commander-in-chief of our other colonies or planta-
tions in America, do presume for the present, and tmtil
our further pleasure be known, to grant warrants of sur-
vey, or pass patents, for any lands beyond the heads or
sources of any of the rivers which fall into the Atlantic
Ocean from the west or northwest; or upon any lands
whatever, which, not having been ceded to, or purchased
by, us, as aforesaid, are reserved to the said Indians, or
any of them.

And we do further declare it to be our royal will and
pleasure, for the present, as aforesaid, to reserve under
our sovereignty, protection, and dominion, for the use of
the said Indians, all the land and territories not included
within the limits of our said three new governments, or
within the limits of the territory granted to the Hudson's
Bay Company ; as also all the land and territories lying
to the westward of the sources of the rivers which fall
into the sea from the west and northwest as aforesaid;
and we do hereby strictly forbid, on pain of our dis-

1772-3] Benjamin Franklin 55

pleasure, all our loving subjects from making any pur-
chases or settlements whatever, or taking possession of
any of the lands above reserved, without our especial
leave and license for that purpose first obtained.

And we do further strictly enjoin and require all per-
sons whatever, who have either wilfully or inadvertently
seated themselves upon any lands within the countries
above described, or upon any other lands, which, not
having been ceded to, or purchased by, us, are still reserved
to the said Indians as aforesaid, forthwith to remove
themselves from such settlements.

And whereas great frauds and abuses have been com-
mitted in the purchasing lands of the Indians, to the
great prejudice of our interests, and to the great dissatis-
faction of the said Indians; in order, therefore, to pre-
vent such irregularities for the future, and to the end
that the Indians may be convinced of our justice, and
determined resolution to remove all reasonable cause of
discontent, we do, with the advice of our Privy Council,
strictly enjoin and require, that no private person do
presimie to make any purchase from the said Indians, of
any lands reserved to the said Indians, within those parts
of our colonies where we have thought proper to allow
settlement; but that, if at any time any of the said
Indians should be inclined to dispose of the said lands,
the same shall be purchased only for us, in our name,
at some public meeting or assembly of the said Indians,
to be held for that purpose by the governor or com-
mander-in-chief of our colony respectively, within which
they shall lie : and, in case they shall lie within the limits
of any proprietaries, conformable to such directions and
instructions as we or they shall think proper to give for
that purpose. And we do, by the advice of our Privy
Coimcil, declare and enjoin, that the trade with the said

56 The Works of [1772-3

Indians shall be free and open to all our subjects what-
ever, provided that every person, who may incline to
trade with the said Indians, do take out a license for
carrying on such trade, from the governor or commander-
in-chief of any of our colonies respectively, where such
person shall reside, and also the security to observe such
regulations as we shall at any time think fit, by our-
selves or commissaries, to be appointed for this purpose,
to direct and appoint for the benefit of the said trade.
And we do hereby authorize, enjoin, and require the
governors and commanders-in-chief of all our colonies re-
spectively, as well those imder our immediate govern-
ment, as those tinder the government and direction of
proprietaries, to grant such licenses without fee or re-
ward, taking especial care to insert therein a condition,
that such license shall be void, and the security forfeited,
in case the person to whom the same is granted, shall
refuse or neglect to observe such regulations as we shall
think proper to proscribe as aforesaid.

And we do further expressly enjoin and require all
officers whatever, as well military as those employed in
the management and direction of Indian affairs within
the territories reserved, as aforesaid, for the use of the
said Indians, to seize and apprehend all persons what-
ever, who, standing charged with treasons, misprisions of
treasons, murders, or other felonies or misdemeanors,
shall fly from justice and take refuge in the said territory,
and to send them under a proper guide to the colony
where the crime was committed of which they shall stand
accused, in order to take their trial for the same.

Given at our Court of St. James's the seventh day of
October, 1763, in the third year of our reign.
God save the King.

1772-3]

Benjamin Franklin
APPENDIX NO. II

STATE OF THE KING's RENTS IN NORTH AMERICA

Island of St.

John,

Nova Scotia,

:'[

Canada,

Massachusetts,
Connecticut
Rhode Island

New Hampshire,

New York,

New Jersey,

Pennsylvania,

Maryland,

Virginia,

N. & S. Carolina,
Georgia,

E. & W. Florida,

f:

But it is pro
posed to pay J
for the colony
on the Ohio.

Consideration

money paid to

the king for

the lands.

None.

None.

None.

None.

None.

None.

None.

None.

None.

None.

None.

j£io,46o ys.
3d.; which is
all the money
the whole
country (of
which this is
only a small
part) cost gov-
ernment for
t he cession
from the Six
Nations.

The time the lands are
exempted from quit-rent

Quit-rents
received.

Wholly exempt from
quit-rents and all pay-
ments to the crown.

This colony was re- ]
stored to the crown in
the year 1693-4, and yet [
from that time very lit- (
tie quit -rents have been 1
received. J

Wholly exempt from 1
quit-rents and all pay- >
ments to the crown. )

This colony was reas-
sumed by the crown in
the year 1626; and yet.
for a great number of
years, the quit-rents
were not paid at all; —
never with any regular-
ity till within a very few
years ; and now from
what is paid there is a
deduction of at least 20
per cent.

This colony was settled ]
in the year 1735, and yet [
no quit-rents have been
received.

10 years.

The quit-rents to com-
mence in twenty years
from the time of the sur-
vey of each lot or plan-
tation, and to be paid
into the hands of such
person as his Majesty
shall appoint to receive
the same, net and clear
of all deductions what-
soever, for collections or
otherwise. J

None.

And yet no ")
quit - r e n t s
have been
received,
though the
colony was
established
22 years
ago.

None.
None.
None.

Expense to

this country
for the support

of the civil
government of

the colonies.

£ s. d.
707,320 19 7J

None.

None.

None.

None.
None.

None.

None.

£ s. d.

214,610 3 li

90,900 o o

All the ex-
penses of the
civil govern-
ment of this
colony, to be
borne and paid
by the proprie-
tors.

58 The Works of [1773

CCCCLXXI

TO THOMAS GUSHING

London, 5 January, 1773.

Sir : — I did myself the honor of writing to you on
the 2d of December past, enclosing some original
letters from persons in Boston, which I hope got
safe to hand. I have since received your favor of
October 27th, which, containing in a small compass
so full an enumeration of our grievances, the steps
necessary to remove them, and the happy effects
that must follow, I thought that though marked
private it might be of use to communicate it to Lord
Dartmouth; the rather, too, as he would there find
himself occasionally mentioned with proper respect,
and learn that his character was esteemed in the
colonies. Accordingly I wrote him a few lines, and
enclosed it a day or two before I was to wait on his
Lordship, that he might have a little time to con-
sider the contents.'

I The following note accompanied the letter, when it was com-
municated to Lord Dartmouth:

"Craven Street, 8 Dec, 1772.

"Dr. Franklin presents his best respects to Lord Dartmouth, and,
believing it may be agreeable as well as useful to him to receive other
information of the sentiments and dispositions of the leading people in
America, besides what ministers are usually furnished with from the
officers of the crown residing there, takes the liberty of communicating
to his Lordship a letter just received from the Speaker of the Assembly
of the Massachusetts Bay, written not as Speaker, but in his private
capacity.

"Dr. Franklin purposes to wait on Lord Dartmouth at his levee to-
morrow, and shall be happy if he may bring from thence any thing
proper to write in answer that should tend to compose the minds of
people in that province, at present greatly disquieted and alarmed by
some late measures of government."

1773] Benjamin Franklin 59

When I next attended him, he returned me the
letter with great complaisance in his countenance;
said he was glad to find that people in America were
disposed to think so favorably of him; that they
did him but justice in believing he had the best dis-
position towards them, for he wished sincerely their
welfare, though possibly he might not always think
with them, as to the means of obtaining that end;
that the heads of complaint in your letter were
many, some of them requiring much consideration,
and therefore it could scarce be expected that a sud-
den change should be made in so many measures,
supposing them all improper to be continued, which
perhaps might not be the case. It was, however,
his opinion that, if the Americans continued quiet,
and gave no fresh offence to government, those
measures would be reconsidered, and such relief
given as upon consideration should be thought
reasonable.

I need not remark that there is not much in such
general discourse; but I could then obtain nothing
more particular, except that his Lordship expressed
in direct terms his disapprobation of the instruction
for exempting the colonies from taxation; which,
however, was, as he said, in confidence to me, rely-
ing that no public mention should be made of his
opinion on that head.

In the meantime, some circumstances are working
in our favor with regard to the duties. It is found
by the last year's accounts transmitted by the com-
missioners, that the balance in favor of Britain is
but about eighty-five pounds, after paym.ent of

6o The Works of [1773

salaries, etc., exclusive of the charge of a fleet to
enforce the collection. Then it is observed that the
India Company is so out of cash, that it cannot pay
the bills drawn upon it, and its other debts ; and at
the same time so out of credit, that the Bank does
not care to assist them, whence they find them-
selves obliged to lower their dividend; the appre-
hension of which has sunk their stock from two
hundred and eighty to one hundred and sixty,
whereby several millions of property are annihilated,
occasioning private bankruptcies and other distress,
besides a loss to the public treasury of four hundred
thousand pounds per annum, which the company
are not to pay into it as heretofore, if they are not
able to keep up their dividend at twelve and a half.
And, as they have at the same time tea and other
India goods in their warehouses, to the amount of
four millions, as some say, for which they want a
market, and which, if it had been sold, would have
kept up their credit, I take the opportunity of re-
marking in all companies the great imprudence of
losing the American market, by keeping up the duty
on tea, which has thrown that trade into the hands
of the Dutch, Danes, Swedes, and French, who,
according to the reports and letters of some custom-
house officers in America, now supply by smuggling,
the whole continent, not with tea only, but accom-
pany that article with other India goods, amounting,
as supposed, in the whole to five hundred thou-
sand pounds sterling per annum. This gives some
alarm, and begins to convince people more and more
of the impropriety of quarrelling with America, who

1773] Benjamin Franklin 6i

at that rate might have taken off two milHons and
a half of those goods within these five years that
the combination has subsisted, if the duty had not
been laid, or had been speedily repealed.

But our great security lies, I think, in our growing
strength, both in numbers and wealth; that creates
an increasing ability of assisting this nation in its
wars, which will make us more respectable, our
friendship more valued, and our enmity feared;
thence it will soon be thought proper to treat us not
with justice only, but with kindness, and thence we
may expect in a few years a total change of meas-
ures with regard to us ; unless, by a neglect of mili-
tary discipline, we should lose all martial spirit, and
our western people become as tame as those in the
eastern dominions of Britain, when we may expect
the same oppressions; for there is much truth in
the Italian saying. Make yourselves sheep, and the
wolves will eat you. In confidence of this coming
change in our favor, I think our prudence is mean-
while to be quiet, only holding up our rights and
claims on all occasions in resolutions, memorials, and
remonstrances ; but bearing patiently the little pres-
ent notice that is taken of them. They will all have
their weight in time, and that time is at no great
distance. With the greatest esteem, I have the
honor to be, etc.,

B. Franklin.

62 The Works of [1773

CCCCLXXII

TO MRS. DEBORAH FRANKLIN

London, 6 January, 1773.

My Dear Child: — I feel some regard for this 6th
of January, as my old nominal birthday, though the
change of style has carried the real day forward to
the 17th, when I shall be, if I live till then, sixty-
seven years of age. It seems but the other day
since you and I were ranked among the boys and
girls, so swiftly does time fly! We have, however,
great reason to be thankful, that so much of our
lives has passed so happily; and that so great a
share of health and strength remains, as to render
life yet comfortable.

I received your kind letter of November i6th by
Sutton. The apples are not yet come on shore, but
I thank you for them. Captain All was so good as
to send me a barrel of excellent ones, which serve
me in the meantime. I rejoice to hear that you all
continue well. But you have so used me to have
something pretty about the boy, that I am a little
disappointed in finding nothing more of him than
that he is gone up to Burlington. Pray give in your
next, as usual, a little of his history.

All our friends here are pleased with your remem-
bering them, and send their love to you. Give mine
to all that inquire concerning me, and a good deal
to our children. I am ever, my dear Debby, your
affectionate husband,

B. Franklin.

1773] Benjamin Franklin 63

CCCCLXXIII

TO JOSEPH GALLOWAY, ESQ.

London, 6 January, 1773.

Dear Friend: — I have received your favors of
October i8th and 30th. I am obliged greatly to
you and Mr. Rhodes for your friendly interposition
in the affair of my salary. As I never made any
bargain with the House, I accept thankfully what-
ever they please to give me, and shall continue to
serve them as long as I can afford to stay here.
Perhaps it may be thought that my other agencies
contribute more than sufficient for that purpose, but
the Jersey allowance, though well paid, is a very
small one; that from Georgia, ;^ioo only, is some
years in arrear, and will not be continued, as their
appointment is by a yearly act, which, I am told,
the governor will not again pass with my name in
it; and from Boston I have never received a far-
thing, perhaps never shall, as their governor is
instructed to pass no salary to an agent whose
appointment he has not assented to. In these cir-
cumstances, with an almost double expense of living
by my family remaining in Philadelphia, the losses
I am continually suffering in my affairs there through
absence, together with my now advanced age, I feel
renewed inclinations to return and spend the re-
mainder of my days in private life, having had
rather more than my share of public bustle. I only
wish first to improve a little, for the general advan-
tage of our country, the favorable appearances aris-
ing from the change of our American minister, and

64 The Works of [1773

the good Hght I am told I stand in with the suc-
cessor. If I be instrumental in [illegible] things in
good train, with a prospect of their [illegible] on a
better footing than they have had for some years
past, I shall think a little additional time well spent,
though I were to have no allowance for it at all.

I must, however, beg you will not think of retir-
ing from public business. You are yet a young man,
and may still be greatly serviceable to your country.
It would be, I think, something criminal to bury
in private retirement so early all the usefulness of
so much experience and such great abilities. The
people do not indeed always see their friends in the
same favorable light; they are sometimes mistaken,
and sometimes misled; but sooner or later they
come right again, and redouble their former affec-
tion. This, I am confident, will happen in your
case, as it often has in the case of others. There-
fore, preserve your spirits and persevere, at least to
the age of sixty, a boundary I once fixed for myself,
but have gone beyond it.

I am afraid the bill, Wilcocks on Col. Alex. John-
stone, for >^ 1 66 15 3I must be returned with a pro-
test. I shall know in a day or two.

I shall consult Mr. Jackson, and do in the island
affair what shall be thought best for securing your
interest and that of all concerned.

By our spring ships I shall write you more fully.
At present I can only add that I am with unalter-
able esteem and affection,

Yours most sincerely,

B. Franklin.

[i773 Benjamin Franklin 65

CCCCLXXIV

TO MRS. DEBORAH FRANKLIN

London, 2 February, 1773.

My Dear Child: — Since my last I have got the
apples on shore, and they come out very good.
Accept my best thanks. Mr. Bache, of New York,
has also kindly sent me two barrels; Capt. Winn
one, and Capt. Falconer one. I told you before
that Capt. All gave me one, so that I am now plen-
tifully supplied.

I know you love to have a line from me by every
packet, so I write, though I have little to say, hav-
ing had no letter from you since my last, of January
6th.

In return for your history of your grandson, I
must give you a little of the history of my godson.
He is now twenty-one months old, very strong and
healthy, begins to speak a little, and even to sing.
He was with us a few days last week, grew fond of
me, and would not be contented to sit down to
breakfast without coming to call pa, rejoicing when
he had got me into my place. When seeing me one
day crack one of the Philadelphia biscuits into my
tea with the nut-crackers, he took another and
tried to do the same with the tea- tongs. It makes
me long to be at home to play with Ben.

My love to him and our children, with all inquiring
friends. Mrs. Stevenson presents her affectionate
respects, and Sally her duty.

I am ever, my dear Debby,
Your loving husband,

B. Franklin.

66 The Works of [1773

CCCCLXXV

TO JOHN BARTRAM

London, io February, 1773.

My Dear Good Old Friend:

I am glad to learn that the turnip-seed and the
rhubarb grow with you, and that the turnip is ap-
proved. It may be depended on, that the rhubarb
is the genuine sort. But, to have the root in perfec-
tion, it ought not to be taken out of the ground in
less than seven years. Herewith I send you a few
seeds of what is called the cabbage turnip. They
say that it will stand the frost of the severest winter,
and so make a fine early feed for cattle in the spring,
when their other fodder may be scarce. I send also
some seed of the Scotch cabbage; and some peas
that are much applauded here, but I forget for what
purpose, and shall inquire and let you know in my

next.

I think there has been no good opportunity of
sending your medal since I received it, till now. It
goes in a box to my son Bache, with the seeds. I
wish you joy of it. Notwithstanding the failure of
your eyes, you write as distinctly as ever. With
great esteem and respect, I am, my dear friend,
yours most affectionately,

B. Franklin.

1773] Benjamin Franklin 67

CCCCLXXVI

TO ANTHONY BENEZET '

London, io February, 1773.

Dear Friend: — I received with pleasure yours of
September 13th, as it informed me of your welfare.
With this I send you one of Young's Night Thoughts
— the largest print I could find. I thank you for
the four copies you sent me of your translation of
the French book; I have given two of them to
friends here, whom I thought the subject might suit.
I have commenced an acquaintance with Mr. Gran-
ville Sharpe, and we shall act in concert in the
affair of slavery. The accounts you send me relat-
ing to Surinam are indeed terrible. Go on and pros-
per in your laudable endeavors, and believe me ever,
my dear friend,

Yours most affectionately,

B. Franklin.

I send you a few copies of a pamphlet written at
Paris by a well-wisher to our country. It is a little
system of morals that may give distinct ideas on
that subject to youth, and perhaps on that account
not unfit for a school-book. I will send you more
if you desire it.

I An active philanthropist, bom at St. Quentin, in France, of Pro-
testant parents, who, in 1715, when Anthony was two years old, re-
moved to London, where they became Quakers, and to Philadelphia in
1 731, where Anthony died May 4, 1784, in the seventy-first year of his
age. He was brought up to mercantile pursuits, which, however, he
abandoned in 1742, and became an instructor in a school of the Society
of Friends. He took an active part in the agitation for the suppres-
sion of the slave-trade, founded a school for children of African de-
scent, and left his property to it upon the death of his wife.

68 The Works of [1773

CCCCLXXVII

TO MESSRS. ABEL JAMES AND BENJAMIN MORGAN

London, io February, 1773.

Gentlemen: — I duly received your favor of
[mutilated], and have, after a long delay, got the
[silk?] from the custom-house. The throwsters ap-
pointed to inspect it there, in order to ascertain the
bounty, valued it at fifteen shillings the small pound,
the whole taken together, and afterwards wanted to
buy it of me at that price. But suspecting their
offer to be too low, I have shown it to others, who
say it is much undervalued. Our friend Freeman
advises its being sold by auction at the last, and
recommends the same broker. Every one I have
consulted is of the same opinion. He will have a
sale about April next.

The Spitalfield's silk business is very dead at
present. The enormous paper credit which circu-
lated so freely some time since, enabled the master
manufacturers to employ more men and make more
goods than the market really required, and the blow
such credit has lately received, obHges them to stop
their work until they can dispose of the great quan-
tity of goods on hand, which some say is enough for
a twelvemonth to come.

So the disbanded workmen are starving, though
great sums are collected to distribute among them
in charity. Several have appHed to me to ship
them to America, but having no account that such
workmen are wanted there, I was obliged to refuse

1773] Benjamin Franklin 69

them. One came to me with the enclosed letter,
and showed me several written characters from dif-
ferent masters he had worked with, all strongly in
his favor for ingenuity and skill in his business, as
well as his sobriety and industry. He was a Quaker,
and seemed a sensible young man, so that I was
strongly inclined to send him, till I understood he
had a wife and young family, which would make it
too expensive, though he said his wife was a work-
woman in the business, and one child could also be
serviceable. He is endeavoring to get subscriptions
to pay the passage-money, but I suppose will hardly
succeed, as people here would rather maintain the
workmen idle for a while, than pay toward sending
them to America.

I am much obliged to the managers for their pres-
ent of four pounds of the silk, and shall consider
what purpose I can apply it to that may best con-
tribute to the encouragement of the produce. Please
to offer them my thankful acknowledgments, and
assure them of my most faithful services.

With great esteem and respect, I am, gentlemen,
Your most obedient humble servant,

B. Franklin.

CCCCLXXVni

TO JAMES JOHNSTON

London, io February, 1773.

Sir: — I received your letter with the sample of
North American senna, which I put into the hands

yo The Works of [1773

of a friend who is a great botanist as well as a phy-
sician, and has made some trial of it. He tells me
that to render it merchantable here, the stalks
should be picked out, and the leaves packed up
neatly, as that is which comes from the Levant.
Perhaps among your druggists you might see some
of those packages and so inform yourself of the
manner. He has not yet had sufficient experience
of it to be decisive in his opinion of its qualities in
comparison with other senna, but thinks it likely
that it may answer the same purposes. Of the qual-
ity that may be in demand here, I have yet been
able to obtain no intelligence.

I am, sir, your humble servant,

B. Franklin.

CCCCLXXIX

TO WILLIAM FRANKLIN

London, 14 February, 1773.

Dear Son: — The opposition are now attacking
the ministry on the St. Vincent's affair, which is gen-
erally condemned here, and some think Lord Hills-
borough will be given up, as the adviser of that
expedition. But, if it succeeds, perhaps all will
blow over. The ministry are more embarrassed
with the India affairs. The continued refusal of
North America to take tea from hence, has brought
infinite distress on the company. They imported
great quantities in faith that that agreement could
not hold ; and now they can neither pay their debts

1773] Benjamin Franklin 71

nor dividends ; their stock has sunk to the annihilat-
ing near three millions of their property, and govern-
ment will lose its four hundred thousand pounds a
year ; while their teas lie on hand. The bankruptcies
brought on partly by this means have given such a
shock to credit as has not been experienced here
since the South Sea year. And this has affected the
great manufacturers so much as to obhge them to
discharge their hands, and thousands of Spitalfields
and Manchester weavers are now starving, or sub-
sisting on charity. Blessed effects of pique, and
passion in government, which should have no pas-
sions. Yours, etc.,'

B. Franklin.

I When the bill imposing a tax on glass, paper, and painters' colors
was repealed the ministry proposed a reduction of the duty on tea
from one shilling to threepence a pound, thus easing the colonies, as
they said, of ninepence on a pound. But, at the same time. Lord
North avowed the object of retaining this threepenny tax to be for the
purpose of asserting and maintaining the right of Parliament to tax
the colonies. He said that "he even wished to have repealed the
whole, if it could have been done without giving up that absolute right;
that he should, to the last hour of his life, contend for taxing America;
but, he was sorry to say, the behavior of the Americans had by no
means been such as to merit such favor; neither did he think a total
repeal would quell the troubles there, as experience had shown that,
to lay taxes when America was qxoiet, and repeal them when America
was in flames, only added fresh claims to those people on every occa-
sion." And he added, in speaking of the non-importation agreements
in the colonies: "North America, from its natural situation, and the
deamess of labor, would be many years before it could supply itself
with manufactures; therefore there was not so much to fear from
their resolutions as the nation imagined." — Debrett's Parliamentary
Debates, Vol. V., p. 254. With these views he retained the threepence
a pound on tea, and the East India Company was induced to make
large importations for the American market; but the people held to
their resolutions, resisted the tax, and defeated the sales, thus bringing
heavy losses upon the company.

72 The Works of [1773

CCCCLXXX

TO HUMPHREY MARSHALL ON THE SPOTS IN THE SUN
DR. WILSON'S NEW HYPOTHESIS

London, 14 February, 1773.

Sir: — A considerable time after its arrival, I re-
ceived the box of seeds you sent me the beginning
of last year, with your observations on spots in the
stm. The seeds I distributed among some of my
friends who are curious; accept my thankful ac-
knowledgments for them. The observations I com-
municated to our astronomers of the Royal Society,
who are much pleased with them, and hand them
about from one to another ; so that I have had little
opportunity of examining them myself, they not
being yet returned to me.

Here are various opinions about the solar spots.
Some think them vast clouds of smoke and soot
arising from the consuming fuel on the surface,
which at length take fire again on their edges, con-
suming and daily diminishing till they totally disap-
pear. Others think them spots of the surface, in
which the fire has been extinguished, and which by
degrees is rekindled. It is, however, remarkable
that, though large spots are seen gradually to be-
come small ones, no one has observed a small spot
gradually become a large one; at least I do not re-
member to have met with such an observation. If
this be so, it should seem they are suddenly formed
of their full size; and perhaps, if there were more
such constant and dihgent observers as you, some

1773] Benjamin Franklin 73

might happen to be observing at the instant such a
spot was formed, when the appearances might give
some ground of conjecture by what means they were
formed.

The professor of astronomy at Glasgow, Dr. Wil-
son, has a new hypothesis. It is this: that the sun
is a globe of solid matter, all combustible, perhaps,
but whose surface only is actually on fire to a cer-
tain depth, and all below that depth imkindled, like
a log of wood, whose surface to half an inch deep
may be burning coal, while all within remains wood.
Then he supposes, by some explosion similar to our
earthquakes, the burning part may be blown away
from a particular district, leaving bc.x'e the unkindled
part below, which then appears a spot, and only
lessens as the fluid burning matter by degrees flows in
upon it on all sides, and at last covers or rekindles it.

He founds this opinion in certain appearances of
the edges of the spots as they turn under the sun's
disk, or emerge again on the other side; for, if there
are such hollows in the stm's face as he supposes and
the bright border round their edges be the fluid
burning matter flowing down the banks into the
hollow, it will follow that, while a spot is in the
middle of the sun's disk, the eye, looking directly
upon the whole, may discern that border all round;
but when the hollow is moved round to near the
edge of the disk, then, though the eye which now
views it aslant can see full the farthest bank, yet
that which is nearest is hidden, and not to be dis-
tinguished; and when the same spot comes to
emerge again on the other side of the sun, the bank

74 The Works of [1773

which before was visible is now concealed, and that
concealed which before was visible, gradually chang-
ing, however, till the spot reaches the middle of the
disk, when the bank all round may be seen as before.
Perhaps your telescope may be scarce strong enough
to observe this. If it is, I wish to know whether you
find the same appearances. When your observa-
tions are returned to me, and I have considered
them, I shall lodge them among the papers of the
Society, and let you know their sentiments.
With great esteem and regard, I am,

B. Franklin.

CCCCLXXXI

TO WM. MARSHALL

London, 14 February, 1773.

Reverend Sir: — I duly received your respected
letter of October 30th, and am very sensible of the
propriety and equity of the act passed to indulge
your friends in their scruples, relating to the mode
of taking an oath, which you plead for so ably by
numerous reasons. That act, with others, has now
been sometime laid before his Majesty in council. I
have not yet heard of any objection to it; but if
such should arise, I shall do my utmost to remove
them, and obtain the royal assent. Believe me.
Reverend Sir, to have the warmest wishes for the
increase of religious as well as civil liberty through-
out the world; and that I am, with great regard,
your most obedient humble servant,

B. Franklin.

17731 Benjamin Franklin 75

CCCCLXXXII

TO MRS. DEBORAH FRANKLIN

London, 14 February, 1773.

My Dear Child: — I wrote to you a few days
since by the packet. In a box directed to Mr.
Bache, I sent a striped cotton and silk gown for you,
of a mantifacture now much the mode here. There
is another for Sally. People line them with some
old silk gown, and they look very handsome. There
goes also a bedstead for Sally, sent on Capt. All's
telling Mrs. Stevenson that you wished it had been
sent with the bed. She sends also some little things
for Benny Boy.

Now, having nothing very material to add, let us
trifle a little. The fine large gray squirrel you sent,
who was a great favorite in the bishop's family, is
dead. He had got out of his cage in the country,
rambled, and was rambling over a common three
miles from home, when he met a man with a dog.
The dog pursuing him, he fled to the man for pro-
tection ; running up to his shoulder, who shook him
off, and set the dog on him, thinking him to be, as
he said afterwards, some varment or other. So poor
Mungo, as his mistress called him, died. To amuse
you a little, and nobody out of your own house, I
enclose you a little correspondence between her and
me on the melancholy occasion. Skugg, you must
know is a common name by which all squirrels are
called here, as all cats are called Puss. Miss Georgi-
anna is the bishop's youngest daughter but one.
There are five in all. Mungo was buried in the

76 The Works of [1773

garden, and the enclosed epitaph put upon his monu-
ment. So much for squirrels/

My poor cousin Walker, in Buckinghamshire, is a
lacemaker. She was ambitious of presenting you
and Sally with some netting of her work, but as I
knew she could not afford it, I chose to pay for it at
her usual price, 3/6 per yard. It goes also in the
box. I name the price that, if it does not suit you
to wear it, you may know how to dispose of it.

I have desired Miss Haydock to repay you the
£8 6s. sterling, which I have laid out for her here
on account of her silk. I think it is not the color
she desired. I suppose her relation, Mrs. Forster,
who took the management of it, will give her the
reason.

My love to Sally and the dear boy. I am ever
your affectionate husband,

B. Franklin.

CCCCLXXXIII

TO JOSIAH DAVENPORT

London, 14 February, 1773.

Loving Cousin: — I was sorry to hear of your
failing in your business. I hear you now keep a
little shop, and therefore send you four dozen of
Evans' maps, which, if you can sell, you are wel-
come to apply the money towards clothing your
boys, or to any other purpose. Enoch seems a solid,
sensible lad, and I hope will do well. If you will be
advised [illegible], think of any place in the post-

I See this letter xinder date of September 26, 1772.

1773] Benjamin Franklin n

office. The money you [illegible] will slip through
your fingers, and you will run behindhand imper-
ceptibly, when your securities must suffer, or your
employers. I grow too old to run such risks, and
therefore wish you to propose nothing more of the
kind to me. I have been hurt too much by endeav-
oring to help Cousin Ben Mecom. I have no opinion
of the punctuality of cousins. They are apt to take
liberties with relations they would not take with
others, from a confidence that a relation will not
sue them, and though I believe you now resolve and
intend well in case of such an appointment, I can
have no dependence that some imexpected misfor-
tune or difficulty will not embarrass your affairs and
render you again insolvent. Don't take this unkind.
It is better to be thus free with you than to give
you expectations that cannot be answered. I
should be glad to see you in some business that
would require neither stock nor credit and yet might
afford a comfortable subsistence, being ever, your
affectionate cousin,

B. Franklin.

CCCCLXXXIV

TO JOSEPH GALLOWAY, ESQ.

London, 14 February, 1773.

Dear Friend: — I wrote to you the 6th of last
month in answer to your favors of October i8th and
30th ; since which I have no line from you, the New
York January packet not being yet arrived.

yS The Works of [1773

The bill on Col. Johnstone, which I mentioned as
likely to be protested, is since paid. The gentleman
trifled about it a good deal; first refused to accept
it, then came to me and desired it might be sent to
him again and he would accept it; then when it
became due he wanted longer time. The drawer, I
think, should be informed of this, that he may be
cautious. The man seems honestly disposed, but
appears embarrassed in his money affairs. This, in-
deed, is at present a more common case than usual,
owing [illegible] the great blow paper credit has re-
ceived, which first fell upon the India Company,
and by degrees became general. Hence, a great
stop of employment among the manufacturers,
added to the mischiefs mentioned in mine of Decem-
ber 2d, of which retaining the duty on tea in Amer-
ica, and thereby the loss of that market, are now
acknowledged to be the cause. The ministry now
would have the company save its honor by petition-
ing for the repeal of that duty; and the company
has it under consideration. They see government
will be obliged, for its own sake, to support them,
and therefore must repeal the duty, whether they
petition for it or not, and 't is said they are not
willing to ask it as a favor, lest that should be made
a foundation for some additional demand upon them.
A fine hobble they are all got into by their unjust
and blimdering politics with regard to the colonies.

I thank you for proposing the two members I
mentioned. I have now some others to propose,
viz. : Dr. Barbeu Dubourg of Paris, a man of very
extensive learning and an excellent philosopher, who

1773] Benjamin Franklin 79

is ambitious of the honor, as is Lord Stanhope for
himself and son, Lord Mahon, who will be proposed
by Dr. de Normandy; there is also Mr. Sam'l Dun,
a very ingenious mathematician and universal me-
chanic, very fond of America, and would be an
acquisition if we could get him there and employ
him; he writes to the society, and is also very desir-
ous of the honor. There is another gentleman, who,
I believe, would be pleased with it, though he has
not mentioned it ; I mean the president of the Royal
Society, Sir John Pringle, Bart. It is usual for the
Academy of Sciences at Paris always to choose the
president of the English Royal Society one of their
foreign members, and it is well taken here as a
mark of respect, and I think it would also be well
taken by the society if you should choose him. By
the way, is the ten shillings a year expected of for-
eign members? I have been asked that question.
Here no contribution is yet taken of them. I send
the society some printed pieces that will be indeed
in the next volume of the Philosophical Transactions
here ; but as that will not come out till midsummer,
it may be agreeable to have them sooner.

Enclosed I send an account of the presenting two
more of your acts to the king in council; as yet I
hear of no objection to any of the former thirty, of
which I sent a Hst per January packet as presented
December 2 2d.

With unalterable attachment, I am ever, my dear
friend, yours most affectionately,

B. Franklin.

8o The Works of [1773

CCCCLXXXV

FROM M. DE SAUSSURE '

Naples, 23 February, 1773.

Sir: — I have received with the greatest pleasure
the two letters, which you did me the honor to
write to me; the one of October the 8th, the other
of December ist. As they were both addressed to
me at Geneva, and as I left that place at the begin-
ning of October to come to Italy to pass the winter,
they reached me very late, and I have thus been
debarred the privilege of showing you, by a prompt
reply, how much I feel flattered by the honor of
your correspondence. The letter on the action of
pointed conductors, and the accompanying Essay,
contain experiments and reasonings perfectly con-
clusive, and which leave no doubt as to the utility
of these ingenious preservatives.

If I had been acquainted with these new experi-
ments, I should have made use of them with great
advantage in a short apologetic memoir, which I
published in October, 1771, for the information of
some people who were terrified at a conductor which
I had erected at Geneva before the house I lived in.
This memoir, however, met with the desired success.
It reassured everybody, and I had the pleasure of
watching the electricity from the clouds during the
whole course of the last summer. Several persons
even followed this example, and raised conductors
either upon their houses or before them. M. de

I M. de Saussure was the well-known professor at Geneva, celebrated
for his philosophical writings, and for his ascent of Mont Blanc. — Ed.

1773] Benjamin Franklin 8i

Voltaire was one of the first. He does the same
justice to your theory that he did to that of the
immortal Newton.

The project of the Royal Society is well worthy of
the zeal of that illustrious body for the advancement
of useful knowledge ; and I should be much pleased
if I could in any way aid them in the execution of
this project.' Had I been at Geneva, I should have
made it my duty and pleasure to take a journey
to the mountains in the neighborhood, to ascertain
with precision the dimensions of the mountains and
valleys which I thought best suited for the execution
of this design. I do not beheve, however, that,
among those with which I am acquainted, there is
any place exactly suited to give certain information
on the subject to which their researches are directed.
In the Jura, there is no summit sufficiently high,
since the Dole, the mountain which rises highest
above the level of our lake, does not reach seven
hundred toises above this level.

Then it must be considered that the Jura, as well
as the Alps, form continued chains of mountains, all
connected together, or, at least, situated at very
short distances from each other. There is no single
mountain, or, at least, I know of none, of sufficient
height. You often find deep valleys, surrounded by
high mountains, but behind these mountains are

I To ascertain the lateral attraction of mountains, with the view of
determining the mean density of the earth upon the Newtonian
theory of gravitation. On this subject, it would seem. Dr. Franklin
had written to request the aid of M. de Saussure, who had bestowed
much time and attention in observing the geological structure and
formation of the mountains of the Alps.

VOL. VI. — 6.

82 The Works of [1773

other valleys and other mountains, so that the devia-
tions which might be observed in the plumb-line,
would be the complex effect of the combined attrac-
tions of all these mountains ; and, in order to deduce
from them a comparison between the density of the
earth and that of these mountains, much labor and
many calculations would be required. As far as I
am able to judge, it appears to me that some large
rock, rising out of the open sea, like the Peak of
Tenerifife, would be the most suitable place for this
attempt.

The memoir upon this subject, which you did me
the honor to send, I have transmitted to Lord Stan-
hope, at Geneva, that he may confer respecting it
with M. de Luc, who, having attended particularly
to the height of mountains, in connection with his
observations of the barometer, is the best man in
the world to give valuable information on this sub-
ject. It is now, doubtless, well known that Signor
Beccaria of Turin, who has measured a degree of
the meridian at the foot of the Alps, has had an
opportunity to observe great deviations of the
plumb-line, and would thus be enabled to furnish
useful hints to the Royal Society.

I have the pleasure of often seeing here Sir Wil-
liam Hamilton, who has the kindness to take me to
the most interesting places in the neighborhood of
Naples, those which establish his theory of volcanoes
ancient and modern, and prove that the whole Bay
of Naples, from the sea to the Apennines, has been
thrown up from the bottom of the sea by subter
ranean fires, and is thus the product of volcanoes

1773] Benjamin Franklin 83

rather than the theatre of their ravages. We are
also much devoted to electricity. The little ma-
chine, which Mr. Naime made for him, is really-
excellent, and much the best they have ever had in
this part of Italy. Sir William Hamilton, knowing
that I had the honor of writing to you, has requested
me to present his compliments.

I regret extremely that I was not at Geneva to
receive M. de Normandy. I should have been de-
lighted to have had this opportunity to prove to you
how highly I value your recommendation. If you
have any commands for me in Naples, I shall still be
able to receive them here, and you may address
them to Sir William Hamilton. We propose to try
together some experiments on the electricity of the
vapors of Vesuvius, although, to say the truth, I
regard them merely as conductors, which establish a
communication between the earth and the higher
regions of the atmosphere.

Sir William Hamilton has also done me the kind-
ness to invite me to witness some experiments he has
tried with the torpedo. These experiments are not
decisive, because the fishes we had were small, and
gave only slight shocks, but no sign whatever of
electricity appeared. We are waiting for some larger
ones, in order to continue this investigation, according
to the mode which you have yourself marked out.

Accept my assurances of the high consideration
and esteem with which I have the honor to be,

Sir, etc.,

De Saussure.

84 The Works of [1773

CCCCLXXXVI

TO MR. GOLDEN

London, 3 March, 1773.

Dear Sir: — I received yours of January 7th, en-
closing a bill, Ritchie on Hyndman, Lancaster, «&
Co., for ;i^ioo, which I hope will be paid. We have
had too many bad ones of late.
I am, with great regard.

Your most obedient, himible servant,

B. Franklin.

CCCCLXXXVII

from JOHN WINTHROP

Cambridge, New England, 4 March, 1773.

Dear Sir: — I received your favor of September
1 8th. I return you many thanks for Dr. Priestley's
piece on impregnating water with fixed air. If this
should prove an effectual remedy for the sea-scurvy,
it would be indeed a most important discovery. I
am extremely concerned to hear that Dr. Priestley
is so poorly provided for, while so many are rolling
about here in gilt chariots, with very ample stipends.
I admire his comprehensive genius, his perspicuity
and vigor of composition, his indefatigable applica-
tion, and his free, independent spirit, and wish it
were in my power to do him any kind of service. It
would give me great pleasure to see him well settled
in America; though indeed I am inclined to think
he can prosecute his learned labors to greater advan-
tage in England. A man of his abilities would do
honor to any of the colleges. At present there is

1773] Benjamin Franklin 85

no vacancy among them; but if there were, I be-
lieve, sir, you judge perfectly right, that his religious
principles would hardly be thought orthodox enough.
Indeed, I doubt whether they would do at the
Rhode Island College, any more than in the others.
That college is entirely in the hands of the Baptists,
and intended to continue so, and I never understood
that Dr. Priestley was of their persuasion. How-
ever, I cannot but hope that his great and just repu-
tation will procure something valuable for him, and
adequate to his merit.

I have looked over his treatise of Optics, which
you were so good as to present to our library, with
great satisfaction, and met with many articles, espe-
cially from the foreign publications, which were new
to me. It is indeed a most noble collection of every
thing relating to that science.

In my last I ventured to mention a little slip con-
cerning the satellites of Saturn. It would be miracu-
lous if, in so large a work collected from such a
number of books and on such a variety of matters,
there should not be many such. I noted the few
that occurred to me in the chapters taken from those
authors I was most acquainted with, and beg leave
to enclose a list of the principal of them. There are
not above two or three of them that are of any con-
sequence; however, such as it is, the list is at Dr.
Priestley's service, if you think it worth sending to
him. It may help to remove a few trifling inac-
curacies from that valuable work.

I have enclosed the newspaper you mention, that
gave an account of the thunder-storm we had here

86 The Works of [1773

a few years ago. As you are collecting facts on this
subject, I looked over my old almanacs where I had
made some memoranda relating to your admirable
lightning bells. I think it would not be worth while
to transcribe them all, nor can I collect any thing
from them but what is commonly known. In gen-
eral, it seems that the bells hardly ever ring in the
summer without a shower; they sometimes ring
when there is no thunder or lightning, but do not
always ring when there is. When there is a thunder-
shower, they generally ring most briskly while the
cloud is yet at some distance, and cease as soon as
it rains hard. In winter they frequently ring briskly
in snow-storms, and twice they have done so after
the weather was cleared up, and while the new-
fallen snow was driving about with the wind, as you
have done me the honor already to publish.

In looking for the newspaper before mentioned, I
met with another, which gives an account of damage
done by lightning in some places in Connecticut in
1 77 1. As perhaps you have not seen it, I enclose it
with the other; also a letter sent me with another
account. In my almanacs I found also a few min-
utes relating to some uncommon appearances of the
Aurora Borealis. I do not know that they can be
of any use, but if they will afford you the least amuse-
ment I will readily transcribe them.

In addition to my newspaper account I would
mention that besides the strokes of lightning on the
college and the elm-tree, July 2, 1768, there was
another discharge that afternoon on a cornfield, at a
little distance from the college towards the south-

1773] Benjamin Franklin 87

east. It spoiled the com,' which was of some
height, in a circle of about twenty feet in diameter.
That near the centre was burnt down to the roots,
as I was informed by the owner. I did not hear of
it till some days after, and when I saw the place it
had been replanted with cabbages. The com near
the circumference of the circle was only scorched,
and I saw the leaves withered and drooping. The
place struck was about midway between a tree on
one side and the well-pole and chimney of the house
on the other, and as I judge about eighty feet dis-
tant from each ; and there was nothing near so high
on the other sides for a considerable distance. Hence,
their protection did not extend eighty feet. If a
person had been standing in that com, I suppose
there is no doubt that he would have been killed.
And therefore a person in the midst of an open plain
is by no means secure from the stroke of lightning.
The best security seems to be to have something
high, as a tree, for example, near him, but not too
near; perhaps from thirty or forty to ten or fifteen
feet, or rather to be near two such trees.
I am, etc.,

John Winthrop.

CCCCLXXXVIII

TO MRS. JAMES MECOM

London, 9 March, 1773.

Dear Sister: — I received your kind letter of De-
cember 30th, and rejoice to find you were well. I

' Indian com, or maise, which is most commonly planted in this
neighborhood.

88 The Works of [1773

may, possibly, have the greater pleasure of seeing
you before the year is out. I have desired Cousin
Williams to give you the money he may recover
from Hall. I would only mention to you that when
I was in Boston in 175 [mutilated] brother John then
living, an old man, whose name I have forgotten,
applied to me with a bond of our father's of about
fifteen or seventeen pounds, if I remember right,
desiring I would pay it, which I declined, with this
answer, that as I had never received any thing from
the estate, I did not think myself obliged to pay any
of the debts. But I had another reason, which was
that I thought the care of those matters belonged
more properly to my brother. If you know that
person, I wish you would now, out of Hall's money,
pay that debt; for I remember his mildness on the
occasion with some regard.

My love to Jenny. I am ever,
Your affectionate brother,

B. Franklin.
I have not yet seen Capt. Jenkins, but will inquire
him out when I next go to the city.

CCCCLXXXIX

TO THOMAS GUSHING

London, 9 March, 1773.

Sir: — I did myself the honor of writing to you on
the 2d of December and the 5th of January past.
Since which I have received your favor of November

1773] Benjamin Franklin 89

28th, enclosing the Votes and Proceedings of the Town
of Boston, which I have reprinted here, with a pre-
face. Herewith I send you a few copies.

Governor Hutchinson's speech, at the opening of
your January session, has been printed and indus-
triously circulated here by (as I think) the minis-
terial people, which I take to be no good sign. The
Assembly's answer to it is not yet arrived, and, in
the meanwhile, it seems to make impression on the
minds of many not well acquainted with the dispute.
The tea duty, however, is under the consideration of
Parliament, for a repeal, on a petition from the East
India Company, and no new measures have been
talked of against America, or are likely to be taken
during the present session. I was therefore prepar-
ing to return home by the spring ships, but have been
advised by our friends to stay till the session is over ;
as the commission sent to Rhode Island, and dis-
contents in your province, with the correspondence
of the towns, may possibly give rise to something
here, when my being on the spot may be of use to
our country. I conclude to stay a little longer. In
the meantime I must hope that great care will be
taken to keep our people quiet; since nothing is
more wished for by our enemies than, by insurrec-
tions, we should give a good pretence for increasing
the military among us and putting us under more
severe restraints. And it must be evident that, by
our rapidly increasing strength, we shall soon be-
come of so much importance that none of our just
claims of privilege will be, as heretofore, unattended
to, nor any security we can wish for our rights be

90 The Works of [1773

denied us. With great respect, I have the honor to
be, etc.,

B. Franklin.

CCCCXC

TO M. DUBOURG

London, io March, 1773.

Sir: — As to the magnetism which seems produced
by electricity, my real opinion is that these two
powers of nature have no affinity with each other,
and that the apparent production of magnetism is
purely accidental. The matter may be explained
thus:

I St. The earth is a great magnet.

2dly. There is a subtile fluid, called the magnetic
fluid, which exists in all ferruginous bodies, equally
attracted by all their parts, and equally diffused
through their whole substance; at least where the
equilibrium is not disturbed by a power superior to
the attraction of the iron.

3dly. This natural quantity of the magnetic
fluid, which is contained in a given piece of iron,
may be put in motion so as to be more rarefied in one
part and more condensed in another; but it cannot
be withdrawn by any force that we are yet made
acquainted with, so as to leave the whole in a nega-
tive state, at least relatively to its natural quantity;
neither can it be introduced so as to put the iron
into a positive state, or render it plus. In this
respect, therefore, magnetism differs from electricity.

1773] Benjamin Franklin 91

4thly. A piece of soft iron allows the magnetic
fluid which it contains to be put in motion by a
moderate force; so that, being placed in a line with
the magnetic pole of the earth, it immediately ac-
quires the properties of a magnet, its magnetic fluid
being drawn or forced from one extremity to the
other ; and this effect continues as long as it remains
in the same position, one of its extremities becoming
positively magnetized, and the other negatively.
This temporary magnetism ceases as soon as the
iron is turned east and west, the fluid immediately
diffusing itself equally through the whole iron, as in
its natural state.

5thly. The magnetic fluid in hard iron, or steel,
is put in motion with more difficulty, requiring a
force greater than the earth to excite it; and, when
once it has been forced from one extremity of the
steel to the other, it is not easy for it to return;
and thus a bar of steel is converted into a perma-
nent magnet.

6thly. A great heat by expanding the substance
of this steel and increasing the distance between its
particles, affords a passage to the magnetic fluid,
which is thus again restored to its proper equilib-
rium; the bar appearing no longer to possess mag-
netic virtue.

ythly. A bar of steel, which is not magnetic,
being placed in the same position, relatively to the
pole of the earth, which the magnetic needle as-
sumes, and in this position being heated and sud-
denly cooled, becomes a permanent magnet. The
reason is, that while the bar was hot, the magnetic

92 The Works of [1773

fluid which it naturally contained was easily forced
from one extremity to the other by the magnetic
virtue of the earth; and that the hardness and con-
densation, produced by the sudden cooling of the
bar, retained it in this state without permitting it
to resume its original situation.

8thly. The violent vibrations of the particles of a
steel bar, when forcibly struck in the same position,
separate the particles in such a manner during their
vibration, that they permit a portion of the mag-
netic fluid to pass, influenced by the natural magnet-
ism of the earth; and it is afterwards so forcibly
retained by the reapproach of the particles, when
the vibration ceases, that the bar becomes a perma-
nent magnet.

9thly. An electric shock passing through a needle
in a like position, and dilating it for an instant, ren-
ders it, for the same reason, a permanent magnet;
that is, not by imparting magnetism to it, but by
allowing its proper magnetic fluid to put itself in
motion.

lothly. Thus there is not in reality more mag-
netism in a given piece of steel after it is become
magnetic, than existed in it before. The natural
quantity is only displaced or repelled. Hence it
follows, that a strong apparatus of magnets may
charge millions of bars of steel, without communi-
cating to them any part of its proper magnetism;
only putting in motion the magnetism which already
existed in these bars.

I am chiefly indebted to that excellent philo-
sopher of Petersburg, Mr. ^pinus, for this hypo-

1773] Benjamin Franklin 93

thesis, which appears to me equally ingenious and
solid. I say chiefly, because, as it is many years
since I read his book, which I have left in America,
it may happen that I may have added to or altered
it in some respect; and if I have misrepresented
any thing, the error ought to be charged to my
account.

If this hypothesis appears admissible, it will serve
as an answer to the greater part of your questions.
I have only one remark to add, which is, that how-
ever great the force is of magnetism employed, you
can only convert a given portion of steel into a
magnet of a force proportioned to its capacity of
retaining its magnetic fluid in the new position in
which it is placed, without letting it return. Now
this power is different in different kinds of steel, but
limited in all kinds whatever.

B. Franklin.

CCCCXCI

TO M. DUBOURG

10 March, 1773.

I shall not attempt to explain why damp clothes
occasion colds, rather than wet ones, because I doubt
the fact; I imagine that neither the one nor the
other contribute to this effect, and that the causes
of colds are totally independent of wet and even of
cold. I propose writing a short paper on this sub-
ject, the first moment of leisure I have at my dis-
posal. In the meantime I can only say that, having

94 The Works of [1773

some suspicions that the common notion which,
attributes cold to the property of stopping the pores
and obstructing perspiration, was ill founded, I en-
gaged a young physician, who is making some ex-
periments with Sanctorius' balance, to estimate the
different proportions of his perspirations, when
remaining one hour quite naked, and another warmly
clothed. He pursued the experiment in this alter-
nate manner for eight hours successively, and found
his perspiration almost doubled during those hours
in which he was naked.

B. Franklin.

CCCCXCII

TO WILLIAM FRANKLIN

London, 15 March, 1773.

Dear Son: — I wrote you pretty largely by Capt.
All, and sent you sundry things, particularly the
plated boiler you wrote for. I have nothing to add,
but to let you know I continue well. Enclosed I
send you the Boston pamphlet with my preface. I
grow tired of my situation here, and really think of
returning in the fall. My love to Betsey.

I am ever your affectionate father,

B. Franklin.

CCCCXCIII

TO ABEL JAMES AND BENJAMIN MORGAN

London, 15 March, 1773.

Gentlemen: — In mine of February loth, I men-
tioned a silk weaver who was desirous of going to

1773] Benjamin Franklin 95

America; and endeavoring to get subscriptions
among his friends to defray the expense of his and
family's passage. He now tells me they have been
so kind as to double the sum he requested, and that
he is to go in Sutton. He takes with him a good
certificate from the meeting; and I beg leave to
recommend him to the notice and encouragement of
the silk committee, as far as they may find him de-
serving. For though it may be most advantageous
to our country, while the bounty continues so high,
to send all our raw silk hither, yet as the bounty
will gradually diminish and at length cease, I should
think it not amiss to begin early the laying a founda-
tion for the future manufacture of it; and perhaps
this person, if he finds employment, may be a means
of raising hands for that purpose. His name is
Joseph Clark.

By the enclosed you will see when the silk will
probably be sold. I hope to send you a good ac-
count of it, and am, with great esteem, gentlemen,
your most obedient, humble servant,

B. Franklin.

CCCCXCIV

FROM M. DUBOURG

Paris, 25 March, 1773.

Sir : — If I have rightly understood your principles,
the glass to be used in the Leyden experiment ought
to combine these two qualities: first, it should be
impermeable to the electric fluid ; secondly, it should

96 The Works of [1773

not be impermeable to the action of this fluid ; or, to
express the same thing in other words, the electric
fluid must not be able to pass from one surface to
the other, but its afflux on one of the surfaces of
the glass must have the power to excite an efflux
on the opposite surface.

Glass generally unites these two qualities, but not
every kind of glass. There is even glass that the
electric fluid passes through almost as readily as it
enters metals. This is a property natural to some
kinds of glass, and accidental to others. It would
seem astonishing that no philosopher had yet thought
of seeking out the causes of all these differences, if
natural philosophy alone were equal to the task;
but there is need of the aid of chemistry, which cer-
tainly may throw some light on so interesting a
subject.

I would not propose to the chemists to analyze
the different kinds of glass, permeable or imperme-
able to electricity ; but to endeavor to imitate them,
which would be much easier for them to do.

Pure vitrifiable earth is without doubt the only
ingredient in rock crystal, which may be considered
as a true natural glass ; but art has not yet succeeded
in obtaining for us a glass so pure, and there is even
very little reason to hope that such perfection can
ever be attained.

There is no earth known so vitrifiable as not to
require some auxiliary solvent to facilitate its vitri-
fication. Now solvents are distinguished into three
principal kinds — which are, saline solvents, metallic
solvents, and earthly solvents; for there are different

1773] Benjamin Franklin 97

kinds of earths, which, although each singly is re-
fractory, yet serve as mutual solvents, as there are
also many kinds of salts, and many kinds of metals,
which may be used as solvents for the vitrifiable
earths, and which may be combined in different pro-
portions with the same earths. We ought not to
be more surprised to find glass more or less perme-
able to electricity, than to find it pervious and im-
pervious to light. Since there is transparent glass
and opaque glass, or glass of various colors, why
should there not be glass which is a conductor, and
that which is a non-conductor, of electricity?

It would not be a problem of difficult solution for a
chemist, but yet it would be a labor requiring consid-
erable time, to furnish us with a comparative table
of the diffierent kinds of glass possessing either of
these qualities in all their various degrees. The
places merely, occupied by your greenish American
glass, as well as by the white London glass, would in-
dicate at the first glance the mixture of ingredients of
which they are respectively composed.

On the other hand, as the intensity of heat to
which the substance of the glass is exposed, whether
in melting or annealing, may cause the evaporation
of some of these ingredients, and as this heat is not
equally powerful in every part of the furnace, it is not
very surprising that you should have found con-
siderable difference between several glass globes
from the same manufactory, as you inform us.

Independently of the natural properties of one
kind of glass or another, arising from their particular
composition, great differences may also result from

VOL. VI.— 7.

98 The Works of [1773

the different thicknesses of their masses, were it from
this consideration alone that the heat could not be
precisely the same, nor the rapidity of cooling very
nearly equal, in the different layers of very thick
glass ; without taking into the account that it seems
almost impossible that the action of the electric fluid
in motion should be effectually conveyed from one
surface to another of a very massive body.

Lastly; it is equally easy to conceive that a con-
siderable degree of heat, by rarefying the substance
of thin glass, should open its pores to the electric fluid;
but that the degree of heat must be in proportion to
the thickness of the glass; and that Mr. Kinnersley
found a heat of only two hundred and ten degrees
(the point at which water boils, according to Fahren-
heit's thermometer), necessary to render the very
thin glass of a Florence flask permeable to the electric
shock, while Mr. Cavendish required a heat of four
hundred degrees to make glass a little thicker per-
meable to the common stream.

My reason for wishing that some chemist would
have the goodness to enlighten us upon all these
points is, that too much pains cannot be taken to
spare the lovers of natural philosophy any unneces-
sary expense; because this may turn some entirely
aside from its pursuit, and somewhat damp the zeal
of many others. I am, etc.,

M. DUBOURG.

1773] Benjamin Franklin 99

CCCCXCV

TO M. LE ROY

London, 30 March, 1773.

Dear Sir: — You punish my delay of writing to
you very properly by not writing to me. It is long
since I have had the pleasure of hearing from you.
But it is my fault, and I must for my own sake write
to you oftener, though I have little to say, or you will
quite forget me.

I thank you for your advice to send an English
copy of my writings to the Academy, and shall do it
as soon as the new edition now in hand here is
finished.

I am glad you see some weight in the experiments
I sent you concerning pointed rods. Mr. Wilson is
grown angry that his advice was not followed in
making them blunt for the public magazines of gun-
powder, and has published a pamphlet reflecting on
the Royal Society, the committee, and myself, with
some asperity, and endeavoring to alarm the city
with the supposed danger of pointed rods drawing
the lightning into them and blowing them up. I
find it is expected from me that I make some answer
to it, and I shall do so, though I have an extreme
aversion to public altercation on philosophic points,
and have never yet disputed with any one who
thought fit to attack my opinions. I am obliged to
you for the experiment of the point and ring.

There is no being sure of any thing before it
happens; but, considering the weight of your re-
putation, I think there is little reason to doubt the
success of your friends' endeavors to procure from

loo The Works of [1773

our Society here the honor of adding you to their
number at the next election. In the meantime will
you for my sake confer the same kind of honor on
our young Society at Philadelphia. When I found
that our first volume of American Transactions was
favorably received in Europe, and had procured us
some reputation, I took the liberty of nominating you
for a member, and you were accordingly chosen at a
full meeting in Philadelphia on the 15th of January
last. I sent a copy of that volume to the Academy
of Sciences at Paris when it first came out, but I do
not remember to have heard that they ever received
it. I think it was Mr. Magalhaens ' who undertook
to convey it. If it miscarried I will send another,
and by the first opportunity one for yourself.

Two ships are now fitting out here by the Ad-
miralty, at the request of the Royal Society, to make
a voyage to the north pole or to go as near to it as
the ice will permit. If they return safe we shall
probably obtain some new geographical knowledge
and some addition to natural history.

With the greatest esteem and respect, I am, etc.,

B. Franklin.

1 John Hyacinth de Magalhaens, a Portuguese by birth, who resided
a large part of his life in England. His name frequently occurs in
Franklin's letters. He is said to have been "an able linguist, and well
versed in chemistry and natural philosophy," and to have published
respectable treatises on mineralogy and some other branches of science.
He was a member of the Royal Society. This is the same person
(whose name is sometimes printed Magellan) that gave to the American
Philosophical Society a donation of two hundred guineas, which was
to be invested in a secure fimd, and the interest disposed of annually
in premiums to the author of the best discovery, or most useful inven-
tion, relating to navigation, astronomy, or natural philosophy. —
Sparks.

^773] Benjamin Franklin loi

CCCCXCVI

TO THOMAS GUSHING

London, 3 April, 1773.

Sir:— My last was of the 9th past, since which
nothing material has occurred relating to the colo-
nies. The Assembly's answer to Governor Hutchin-
son's speech is not yet come over, but I find that even
his friends here are apprehensive of some ill conse-
quences from his forcing the Assembly into that dis-
pute; and begin to say it was not prudently done,
though they believe it meant well. I enclose for yoJ
two newspapers, in which it is mentioned. Lord
Dartmouth the other day expressed his wish to me,
that some means could be fallen upon to heal the
breach. I took the freedom to tell him that he could
do much in it, if he would exert himself. I think I
see signs of relenting in some others. The Bishop
of St. Asaph's sermon before the Society for Propa-
gating the Gospel is much talked of, for its catholic
spirit and favorable sentiments relating to the colo-
nies. I will endeavor to get a copy to send you.
With great esteem and respect, I have the honor to
be, sir, your most obedient and most humble servant,

B. Franklin.

CCCCXCVII

TO WILLIAM FRANKLIN

London, 6 April, 1773.

Dear Son:— I received yours of February 2d, with
the papers of information that accompany it.

I02 The Works of [1773

I have sent to Mr. Galloway one of the Bishop of
St. Asaph's sermons, before your Society for Propa-
gating the Gospel. I would have sent you one, but
you will receive it of course as a member. It con-
tains such liberal and generous sentiments, relating
to the conduct of government here towards America,
that Sir John Pringle says it was written in compli-
ment to me. But, from the intimacy of friendship in
which I live with the author, I know he has expressed
nothing but what he thinks and feels; and I honor
him the more, that, through the mere hope of doing
good, he has hazarded the displeasure of the court,
and of course the prospect of further preferment.
Possibly, indeed, the ideas of the court may change;
for I think I see some alarms at the discontents in
New England, and some appearance of softening in
the disposition of government, on the idea that mat-
ters have been carried too far there. But all depends
upon circumstances and events. We govern from
hand to mouth. There seems to be no wise, regular
plan.

I saw Lord Dartmouth about two weeks since. He
mentioned nothing to me of your application for ad-
ditional salary, nor did I to him, for I do not like it.
I fear it will embroil you with your people.

While I am writing comes to hand yours of March
2d. My letter by the October packet must have been
sent, as usual, to the office by the bellman. That be-
ing, as you inform me, rubbed open, as some of yours
to me have been, gives an additional circumstance of
probability to the conjecture made in mine of Decem-
ber 2d. For the future I shall send letters of conse-

1773] Benjamin Franklin 103

quence to the office, when I use the packet convey-
ance, by my clerk.

Your accounts of the numbers of people, births,
burials, etc., in your province will be very agreeable
to me, and particularly so to Dr. Price. Compared
with former accounts they will show the increase of
your people, but not perfectly, as I think a great
many have gone from New Jersey to the more south-
em colonies.

The Parliament is like to sit till the end of June,
as Mr. Cooper tells me. I had thoughts of returning
home about that time. The Boston Assembly's
answer to the governor's speech, which I have just
received, may possibly produce something here to
occasion my longer stay. I am your affectionate
father,

B. Franklin.

CCCCXCVIII

TO HIS DAUGHTER

London, 6 April, 1773.

Dear Sally: — I received your pleasing letter of
January 5th. I am glad you have undertaken the
care of the housekeeping, as it will be an ease to your
mother, especially if you can manage to her approba-
tion. That may perhaps be at first a difficulty. It
will be of use to you if you get a habit of keeping ex-
act accounts ; and it will be some satisfaction to me
to see them. Remember, for your encouragement
in good economy, that whatever a child saves of its

104 The Works of [1773

parents' money, will be its own another day. Study
Poor Richard a Uttle, and you may find some benefit
from his instructions. I long to be with you all, and
to see your son. I pray God to bless him and you;
being ever Your affectionate father,

B. Franklin.
P. S. — Mrs. Stevenson and daughter send their
love to you. The latter is near lying-in again. Her
boy, my godson, is a very fine child, and begins to
talk.

CCCCXCIX

TO MR. GALLOWAY

London, 6 April, 1773.

Dear Sir: — I wrote to you on the 14th February,
and on the 15th of March, since which I have re-
ceived no line from you. This just serves to cover a
sermon of my friend the Bishop of St. Asaph. You
will find it replete with very liberal sentiments re-
specting America. I hope they will prevail here and
be the foundation of a better understanding between
the two countries. He is the more to be honored by
us for this instance of his good- will, as his censure of
the late conduct towards the colonies, however ten-
derly expressed, cannot recommend him at court, or
conduce in the least to his promotion.

The Parliament is busy about India affairs, and as
yet see no end of the business. It is thought they
will sit till the end of June. An alliance with France
and Spain is talked of ; and a war with Prussia. But

1773] Benjamin Franklin 105

this may blow over. A war with France and Spain
would be of more advantage to American liberty;
every step would then be taken to conciliate our
friendship, our grievances would be redressed, and
our claims allowed. And this will be the case sooner
or later. For as the House of Bourbon is most
vulnerable in its American possessions, our hearty
assistance in a war there must be of the greatest
importance.

The affair of the grant goes on but slowly. I do
not yet clearly see land. I begin to be a little of the
sailor's mind when they were landing a cable out of a
store into a ship, and one of 'em said: " 'T is a long
heavy cable. I wish we could see the end of it."
"D — n me," says another, "if I believe it has any
end ; somebody has cut it off. ' '

I beg leave to recommend to your civilities Mr.
Robert Hare, who does me the favor to carry this
letter. He bears an excellent character among all
that know him here, and purposes settling in Amer-
ica to carry on there the brewing business.

With the sincerest esteem and affection, I am ever
yours,

B. Franklin.

D

TO MR. COOMBE

London, 6 April, 1773.

Dear Friend: — I received a few welcome lines
from you acquainting me with your safe arrival at

io6 The Works of [1773

Philadelphia, and promising me a long letter, which I
suppose has miscarried. So I know nothing of your
reception and engagements, your views, pursuits, or
studies, or which would please you best from hence,
new poetry or new sermons; for the better chance,
therefore, of hitting your taste, I send you a sample
of each, perhaps the best we have had since Pope and
Tillotson. The poetry is allowed by the wits here to
be neat classical satire. Finding a vacant niche in it,
I have, with my pen, stuck up there a certain enemy
of America. The just, liberal, and benevolent senti-
ments in my friend the Bishop's sermon, do honor
both to his head and heart; and the more, as he
knows the doctrine cannot be relished at court, and
therefore cannot conduce to his promotion. My re-
spects to your good father, and believe me ever
Your affectionate friend,

B. Franklin.
P. S. — Give me leave to recommend to your ac-
quaintance and civilities, the bearer, Mr. Robert
Hare, who bears an excellent character here, and has
views of settling in America.

DI

TO DEAN WOODWARD

London, io April, 1773-

Reverend Sir : — Desirous of being revived in your
memory, I take this opportunity, by my good friend
Mrs. Blacker, of sending you a printed piece, and a

17731 Benjamin Franklin 107

manuscript, both on a subject you and I frequently-
conversed upon with concurring sentiments, when I
had the pleasure of seeing you in Dublin. I have
since had the satisfaction to learn that a disposition
to abolish slavery prevails in North America, that
many of the Pennsylvanians have set their slaves at
liberty, and that even the Virginia Assembly have
petitioned the king for permission to make a law for
preventing the importation of more into that colony.
This request, however, will probably not be granted,
as their former laws of that kind have always been
repealed, and as the interest of a few merchants here
has more weight with government, than that of
thousands at a distance.

Witness a late fact. The gaol distemper being
frequently imported and spread in Virginia by the
ships transporting convicts, occasioning the death of
many honest, innocent people there, a law was made
to oblige those ships arriving with that distemper to
perform a quarantine. But the two merchants of
London, contractors in that business, alleging that
this might increase the expense of their voyages, the
law was at their instance repealed here. With great
esteem and respect, I have the honor to be, etc.,

B. Franklin.

DII

TO WILLIAM DEANE

London, ii April, 1773.

Dear Sir: — Miss Martin that was, now Mrs.
Blacker, being about to return to Dublin, I cannot

io8 The Works of [1773

omit the opportunity it gives me of chatting a Httle
with one whose conversation afforded me so much
pleasure and instruction while I was there.

I know of nothing new here worth communicating
to you, unless perhaps the new art of making carriage-
wheels, the felloes of one piece, bent into a circle and
surrounded by a hoop of iron, the whole very light
and strong, there being no crossed grain in the wood,
which is also a great saving of timber. The wood is
first steamed in the vapor from boiling water, and
then bent by a forcible machine. I have seen pieces
of wood so bent of six inches wide, and three and a
half thick, into a circle of four feet diameter. These,
for duration, can only be exceeded by your iron
wheels. Pray, have you completed that ingenious
invention ?

What is become of honest Mr, Ketilby ? Does he
go on with his printing schemes, or has he got into
some better employment?

They tell us here that some person with you has
discovered a new moving power, that may be of use
in mechanical operations ; that it consists in the ex-
plosion of iron tears chilled suddenly from the melt-
ing state in cold water. That explosion I have often
seen in drops of glass with wonder, understanding it
no more than they did in the time of Hudibras, who
makes a simile of it, which I repeat, because it is
probably so long since you read it:

"Honor is like that glassy bubble,
That gives philosophers so much trouble;
"Whose least part cracked, the whole does fly,
And wits are cracked to find out why."

1773] Benjamin Franklin 109

May I ask you if you know any thing of the appli-
cation of this power, of which I have not at present
the smallest conception?

I have completed my stove, in which the smoke of
the coal is all turned into flame, and operates as fuel
in heating the room. I have used it all this winter,
and find it answers even beyond my expectations. I
propose to print a little description of its use and
construction, and shall send you a copy.

I hope Billy and Jennie continue, and always will
continue, as happy as when I knew them. My best
wishes attend them, being as ever, with sincere es-
teem. Dear sir,

Your most obedient, humble servant,

B. Franklin.

Dili

TO M. DUBOURG

Your observations on the causes of death, and the
experiments which you propose for recalling to life
those who appeared to be killed by lightning, demon-
strate equally your sagacity and your humanity.
It appears that the doctrines of life and death in
general are yet but little understood.

A toad buried in sand will live, it is said, till the
sand becomes petrified, and then, being enclosed in
the stone, it may still live for we know not how many
ages. The facts which are cited in support of this
opinion are too niimerous and too circumstantial not
to deserve a certain degree of credit. As we are

no The Works of [1773

accustomed to see all the animals with which we are
acquainted eat and drink, it appears to us difficult to
conceive how a toad can be supported in such a dun-
geon ; but if we reflect that the necessity of nourish-
ment which animals experience in their ordinary state
proceeds from the continual waste of their substance
by perspiration, it will appear less incredible that
some animals in a torpid state, perspiring less be-
cause they use no exercise, should have less need of
aliment, and that others, which are covered with
scales or shells, which stop perspiration, such as land
and sea turtles, serpents, and some species of fish,
should be able to subsist a considerable time with-
out any nourishment whatever. A plant, with its
flowers, fades and dies immediately if exposed to the
air without having its root immersed in a humid soil,
from which it may draw a sufficient quantity of moist-
ure to supply that which exhales from its substance
and is carried off continually by the air. Perhaps,
however, if it were buried in quicksilver it might pre-
serve for a considerable space of time its vegetable
life, its smell, and color. If this be the case, it might
prove a commodious method of transporting from dis-
tant countries those delicate plants which are unable
to sustain the inclemency of the weather at sea, and
which require particular care and attention. I have
seen an instance of common flies preserved in a man-
ner somewhat similar. They had been drowned in
Madeira wine, apparently about the time when it was
bottled in Virginia to be sent hither (to London).
At the opening of one of the bottles at the house of
a friend where I then was three drowned flies fell into

^773] Benjamin Franklin iii

the first glass that was filled. Having heard it re-
marked that drowned flies were capable of being re-
vived by the rays of the sun, I proposed making the
experiment upon these. They were, therefore, ex-
posed to the sun upon a sieve which had been
employed to strain them out of the wine. In less
than three hours two of them began by degrees to
recover life. They commenced by some convulsive
motions of the thighs, and at length they raised
themselves upon their legs, wiped their eyes with their
forefeet, beat and brushed their wings with their hind
feet, and soon after began to fly, finding themselves
in Old England, without knowing how they came
thither. The third continued lifeless till sunset,
when losing all hopes of him, he was thrown away.
I wish it were possible, from this instance, to in-
vent a method of embalming drowned persons in such
a manner that they may be recalled to life at any
period, however distant ; for having a very ardent de-
sire to see and observe the state of America a hun-
dred years hence, I should prefer to any ordinary
death the being immersed in a cask of Madeira wine
with a few friends till that time, to be then recalled
to life by the solar warmth of my dear country ! But
since in all probability we live in an age too early and
too near the infancy of science to hope to see such an
art brought in our time to its perfection, I must for
the present content myself with the treat which you
are so kind as to promise me of the resurrection of a
fowl or a turkey-cock.

I am, etc.,

B. Franklin.

112 The Works of [1773

DIV

TO MESSRS. DUBOURG AND DALIBARD '

My Dear Friends : — My answer to your questions
concerning the mode of rendering meat tender by
electricity, can only be founded upon conjecture; for
I have not experiments enough to warrant the facts.
All that I can say at present is, that I think electricity
might be employed for this purpose, and I shall state
what follows as the observations or reasons which
make me presume so.

It has been observed that lightning, by rarefying
and reducing into vapor the moisture contained in
solid wood, in an oak, for instance, has forcibly sepa-
rated its fibres, and broken it into small splinters;
that, by penetrating intimately the hardest metals,
as iron, it has separated the parts in an instant, so as
to convert a perfect solid into a state of fluidity ; it is
not then improbable, that the same subtile matter,
passing through the bodies of animals with rapidity,
should possess sufficient force to produce an effect
nearly similar.

The flesh of animals, fresh killed in the usual man-
ner, is firm, hard, and not in a very eatable state, be-
cause the particles adhere too forcibly to each other.
At a certain period, the cohesion is weakened, and, in
its progress towards putrefaction, which tends to pro-
duce a total separation, the flesh becomes what we
call tender, or is in that state most proper to be used
as our food.

I This letter has no date, but the one to which it is an answer is
dated May i, 1773

1773] Benjamin Franklin 113

It has frequently been remarked, that animals
killed by lightning putrefy immediately. This can-
not be invariably the case, since a quantity of light-
ning, sufficient to kill, may not be sufficient to tear
and divide the fibres and particles of flesh, and
reduce them to that tender state which is the pre-
lude to putrefaction. Hence it is, that some
animals killed in this manner will keep longer than
others. But the putrefaction sometimes proceeds
with surprising celerity. A respectable person as-
sured me that he once knew a remarkable instance
of this. A whole flock of sheep in Scotland, being
closely assembled under a tree, were killed by a flash
of lightning ; and, it being rather late in the evening,
the proprietor, desirous of saving something, sent
persons early the next morning to flay them; but
the putrefaction was such, and the stench so abom-
inable, that they had not the courage to execute their
orders, and the bodies were accordingly buried in
their skins. It is not unreasonable to presume, that,
between the period of their death and that of their
putrefaction, a time intervened in which the flesh
might be only tender, and only sufficiently so to be
served at table. Add to this, that persons, who have
eaten of fowls killed by our feeble imitation of light-
ning (electricity), and dressed immediately, have as-
serted that the flesh was remarkably tender.

The little utility of this practice has perhaps pre-
vented its being much adopted. For, though it some
times happens, that a company imexpectedly arriv-
ing at a country-house, or an unusual conflux of
travellers to an inn, may render it necessary to kill a

VOL. VI. 8.

114 The Works of [1773

number of animals for immediate use ; yet, as travel-
lers have commonly a good appetite, little attention
has been paid to the trifling inconvenience of having
their meat a little tough. As this kind of death is
nevertheless more sudden, and consequently less
severe, than any other, if this should operate as a
motive with compassionate persons to employ it for
animals sacrificed for their use, they may conduct the
process thus:

Having prepared a battery of six large glass jars
(each from twenty to twenty-four pints) as for the
Ley den experiment, and having established a com-
munication, as usual, from the interior surface of
each with the prime conductor, and having given
them a full charge (which, with a good machine, may
be executed in a few minutes, and may be estimated
by an electrometer), a chain which communicates
with the exterior of the jars must be wrapped round
the thighs of the fowl; after which the operator,
holding it by the wings, turned back and made to
touch behind, must raise it so high that the head
may receive the first shock from the prime conduc-
tor. The animal dies instantly. Let the head be
immediately cut off to make it bleed, when it may be
plucked and dressed immediately. This quantity of
electricity is supposed sufficient for a turkey of ten
pounds' weight, and perhaps for a lamb. Experience
alone will inform us of the requisite proportions for
animals of different forms and ages. Probably not
less will be required to render a small bird, which is
very old, tender, than for a larger one, which is young.
It is easy to furnish the requisite quantity of elec-

1773] Benjamin Franklin 115

tricity, by employing a greater or less number of jars.
As six jars, however, discharged at once, are capable
of giving a very violent shock, the operator must
be very circumspect, lest he should happen to make
the experiment on his own flesh, instead of that of
the fowl.

B. Franklin.
DV

TO M. DUBOURG

4 May, 1773.

The young physician whom I mentioned is

dead, and all the notes which he had left of his curi-
ous experiments are by some accident lost between
our friends Sir John Pringle and Dr. Huck (Saun-
ders) ; but these gentlemen, if the papers cannot be
recovered, it is to be presumed, will repeat the ex-
periments themselves.'

B. Franklin.

DVI

TO THOMAS GUSHING

London, 6 May, 1773.

Sir: — I have received none of your favors since
that of November 28th. I have since written to you
of the following dates: December 2d, January 5th,
March 9th, and April 3d, which I hope got safe to
hand.

I The works of Dr. Stark, the young physician here alluded to, in-
cluding his experiments, have since been published.

ii6 The Works of [1773

The Council and Assembly's answer to Governor
Hutchinson's speech I caused to be printed here as
soon as I received them. His reply I see since
printed also, but their rejoinder is not yet come. If
he intended, by reviving that dispute, to recommend
himself, he has greatly missed his aim; for the ad-
ministration are chagrined with his officiousness, their
intention having been to let all contention subside
and by degrees suffer matters to return to the old
channel. They are now embarrassed by his proceed-
ings; for if they lay the governor's despatches, con-
taining the declaration of the General Court, before
Parliament, they apprehend measures may be taken
that will widen the breach, which would be more par-
ticularly inconvenient at this time, when the dis-
turbed state of Europe gives some apprehensions of a
general war. On the other hand, if they do not lay
them before Parliament, they give advantage to op-
position against themselves, on some future occasion,
in a charge of criminal neglect. Some say he must be
a fool; others that, through some misinformation,
he really supposed Lord Hillsborough to be again
in office.

Yesterday I had a conversation with Lord Dart-
mouth, of which I think it right to give you some
account. On my saying that I had no late advices
from Boston, and asking if his Lordship had any, he
said: "None since the governor's second speech;
but what difficulties that gentleman has brought us
all into by his imprudence! Though I suppose he
meant well, yet what can now be done? It is im-
possible that Parliament can suffer such a declaration

1773] Benjamin Franklin 117

of the General Assembly, asserting its independency,
to pass unnoticed." "In my opinion," said I, "it
would be better and more prudent to take no notice
of it. It is words only. Acts of Parliament are still
submitted to there. No force is used to obstruct
their execution. And, while that is the case, Parlia-
ment would do well to turn a deaf ear, and seem not
to know that such declarations had ever been made.
Violent measures against the province will not change
the opinion of the people. Force could do no good. "
"I do not know," said he, "that force would be
thought of; but perhaps an act may pass to lay them
under some inconveniences till they rescind that
declaration. Can they not withdraw it? I wish they
could be persuaded to reconsider the matter and do
it of themselves voluntarily, and thus leave things
between us on the old footing — the points undis-
cussed. Don't you think," continued his Lordship,
"such a thing possible?" "No, my Lord," said I,
" I think it is impossible. If they were even to wish
matters back in the situation before the governor's
speech, and the dispute obliterated, they cannot with-
draw their answers till he first withdraws his speech,
which methinks would be an awkward operation that
perhaps he will hardly be directed to perform. As
to an act of ParHament, laying that country imder in-
conveniences, it is likely that it will only put them,
as heretofore, on some method of incommoding this
country till the act is repealed ; and so we shall go on
injuring and provoking each other instead of culti-
vating that good-will and harmony so necessary to
the general welfare."

ii8 The Works of [1773

He said that might be, and he was sensible our
divisions must weaken the whole; "for we are yet
one empire,'' said he, "whatever may be the senti-
ments of the Massachusetts Assembly , ' ' but he did
not see how that could be avoided. He wondered,
as the dispute was now of public notoriety. Parlia-
ment had not already called for the despatches ; and
he thought he could not omit much longer the com-
municating them, however unwilling he was to do it,
from his apprehension of the consequences. " But
what," his Lordship was pleased to say, " if you were
in my place, would or could you do? Would you
hazard the being called to account in some future
session of Parliament for keeping back the com-
munication of despatches of such importance?" I
said his Lordship could best judge what in his
situation was the fittest for him to do. "I could only
give my poor opinion with regard to Parliament, that,
supposing the despatches laid before them, they
would act most prudently in ordering them to lie on
the table, and take no further notice of them. For
were I as much an Englishman as I am an American,
and ever so desirous of establishing the authority of
Parliament, I protest to your Lordship I cannot con-
ceive of a single step the Parliament can take to
increase it that will not tend to diminish it, and after
abimdance of desirous they must finally lose it. The
loss in itself perhaps would not be of much conse-
quence, because it is an authority they can never well
exercise for want of due information and knowledge,
and therefore it is not worth hazarding the mischief
to preserve it."

17 73] Benjamin Franklin 119

Then adding my wishes that I could be of any ser-
vice in heaHng our differences, his Lordship said: " I
do not see any thing of more service than prevailing
on the General Assembly, if you can do it, to with-
draw their answers to the governor's speech."
"There is not," says I, "the least probability they
will ever do that ; for the country is all of one mind
upon the subject. Perhaps the governor may have
represented to your Lordship that these are the opin-
ions of a party only, and that great numbers are of
different sentiments, which may in time prevail.
But if he does not deceive himself, he deceives your
Lordship; for in both Houses, notwithstanding the
influence appertaining to his office, there was not, in
sending up those answers, a single dissenting voice."
"I do not recollect," says his Lordship, "that the
governor has written any thing of that kind. I am
told, however, by gentlemen from that country, who
pretend to know it, that there are many of the gov-
ernor's opinion, but they dare not show their senti-
ments." " I never heard, " said I, " that any one has
suffered violence for siding with the governor."
"Not violence, perhaps," said his Lordship, "but
they are reviled and held in contempt, and people do
not care to incur the disesteem and displeasure of
their neighbors."

As I knew Governor Bernard had been in with his
Lordship just before me, I thought he was probably
one of these gentlemen informants, and therefore
said : " People who are engaged in any party or have
advised any measures are apt to magnify the numbers
of those who would have understood as approving

I20 The Works of [1773

their measures." His Lordship said that was natu-
ral to suppose might be the present case; for who-
ever observed the conduct of parties here must have
seen it a constant practice, and he agreed with me
that though a nemine contradicente did not prove
the absolute agreement of every man in the opinion
voted, it, at least, demonstrated the great prevalence
of that opinion.

Thus ended our conference. I shall watch this
business till the Parliament rises, and endeavor to
make people in general as sensible of the inconven-
iences to this country that may attend a continuance
of the contest, as the Spitalfields weavers seem al-
ready to be in their petition to the king, which I
herewith send you. I have already the pleasure to
find that my friend, the Bishop of St. Asaph's ser-
mon is universally approved and applauded, which I
take to be no bad symptom. With sincere esteem
and respect, I have the honor to be, sir, etc.,

B. Franklin.

DVII

TO M. DUBOURG

London, i June, 1773.
Sir: — I wish, with you, that some chemist (who
should, if possible, be at the same time an electrician)
would, in pursuance of the excellent hints contained
in your letter, undertake to work upon glass with the
view you have recommended. By means of a perfect
knowledge of this substance, with respect to its elec-

1773] Benjamin Franklin 121

trical qualities, we might proceed with more certainty
as well in making our own experiments, as in repeat-
ing those which have been made by others in differ-
ent countries, which, I believe, have frequently been
attended with different success on account of differ-
ences in the glass employed, thence occasioning fre-
quent misunderstandings and contrariety of opinions.
There is another circumstance much to be desired
with respect to glass, and that is, that it should not be
subject to break when highly charged in the Ley den
experiment. I have known eight jars broken out of
twenty, and, at another time, twelve out of thirty-
five. A similar loss would greatly discourage elec-
tricians desirous of accumulating a great power for
certain experiments. We have never been able
hitherto to account for the course of such misfor-
tunes. The first idea which occurs is, that the posi-
tive electricity, being accumulated on one side of the
glass, rushes violently through it, in order to supply
the deficiency on the other side and to restore the
equilibrium. This, however, I cannot conceive to
be the true reason, when I consider that, a great
number of jars being united, so as to be charged and
discharged at the same time, the breaking of a
single jar will discharge the whole ; for, if the accident
proceeded from the weakness of the glass, it is not
probable that eight of them should be precisely of
the same degree of weakness, as to break every
one at the same instant, it being more likely that the
weakest should break first, and, by breaking, secure
the rest; and again, when it is necessary to produce
a certain effect, by m.eans of the whole charge passing

122 The Works of [1773

through a determined circle (as, for instance, to melt
a small wire), if the charge, instead of passing in this
circle, rushed through the sides of the jars, the
intended effect would not be produced; which,
however is contrary to fact. For these reasons, I
suspect, that there is, in the substance of the glass,
either some little globules of air, or some portions of
un vitrified sand or salt, into which a quantity of the
electric fluid may be forced during the charge, and
there retained till the general discharge ; and that the
force being suddenly withdrawn, the elasticity of the
fluid acts upon the glass in which it is enclosed, not
being able to escape hastily without breaking the
glass. I offer this only as a conjecture, which I
leave to others to examine.

The globe which I had that could not be excited,
though it was from the same glass-house which fur-
nished the other excellent globes in my possession,
was not of the same frit. The glass which was
usually manufactured there, was rather of the green
kind, and chiefly intended for drinking-glasses and
bottles; but, the proprietors being desirous of at-
tempting a trial of white glass, the globe in question
was of this frit. The glass not being of a perfect
white, the proprietors were dissatisfied with it, and
abandoned their project. I suspected that too great
a quantity of salt was admitted into the composition,
but I am no judge of these matters.

B. Franklin.

1773] Benjamin Franklin 123

DVIII

TO MR. GOLDEN

London, 2 June, 1773.

Dear Sir : — I received yours of April 7th enclosing
Coningham and Nesbit's bill on D. Harvey & Co.
for ;^20o, with which your account is credited. In
my last I acknowledged the receipt of Christie's re-
newed bill for £338 17 2^.

I am glad the last year's accounts are to come by
the next packet, for then we shall have the whole set-
tled and passed together, there having been a delay
for some time, occasioned by the mislaying of a pre-
ceding accoimt at the office. If at the settlement
any thing new should be required in the mode of ren-
dering your accounts, I shall acquaint you with it.

I admire your good father's rare felicity in retain-
ing so long his health and spirits, and particularly
that vigor of his mental faculties which enables him
still to amuse himself with abstruse philosophical dis-
quisitions. For my own part, every thing of difficult
discussion, and that requires close attention of mind,
and an application of long continuance, grows rather
irksome to me, and where there is not some absolute
necessity for it, as in the settlement of accoimts, or
the like, I am apt to indulge the indolence usually at-
tending age, in postponing such business from time to
time; though continually resolving to do it. This
has been the case with regard to your father's philo-
sophical piece on the principles of vital motion, which
he did me the honor some time since to desire
my opinion of. I have read it carefully, and long

124 The Works of [1773

intended to read it with close attention, and still in-
tend it, but what with business that takes up so much
of my time, interruptions of various kinds, and the
indolence I have above confessed, I have hitherto
put it off. In my voyage home which I am now pre-
paring for, I promise myself to study it thoroughly, so
that if I have the happiness once more of meeting
him, we may discourse of it together. In the mean-
time, present my best respects to him, and believe me,
with great regard, dear sir,

Your most obedient, humble servant,

B. Franklin.

DIX

TO THOMAS GUSHING

London, 2 June, 1773.

Sir: — Since my last of the 6th past, I have been
honored with yours of March 6th and 24th, enclosing
a petition to the king, and a letter to Lord Dart-
mouth. On considering the whole, I concluded that
a longer delay of presenting the first petition and
remonstrance was not likely to answer any good pur-
pose, and therefore immediately waited on Lord
Dartmouth, and delivered to him the letter, and the
second petition, at the same time re-delivering the
first, and pressed his Lordship to present them to his
Majesty, which he promised to do.

Enclosed I send you the answer I have just re-
ceived from him, as this day's packet (the mail for
which is to be made up and despatched in a few

1773] Benjamin Franklin 125

hours) is the earliest opportunity, the ships for Bos-
ton not being to sail till the beginning of next week.
By one of them I shall send a copy, with what obser-
vations occur to me on the occasion, which the time
will not now permit me to write. In the meanwhile
I would just beg leave to say that I hope the House
will come to no hasty resolves upon it. The longer
they deliberate, the more maturely they consider, the
greater weight will attend their resolutions. With
sincere respect, I am, sir, etc.,

B. Franklin.

DX

TO THOMAS GUSHING

London, 4 June, 1773.

Sir: — The above is a copy of mine per packet,
which enclosed the original of his Majesty's answer
to our petitions and remonstrance. I now send an
exact copy of the same, which I did intend to accom-
pany with some observations and my sentiments on
the general state of our affairs in this coimtry, and
the conduct proper for us to hold on this occasion.
But, beginning to write, I find the matter too copious,
and the subject, on reflection, too important to be
treated of in a hasty letter; and, being told the
ships sail to-morrow, I must postpone it to another
opportunity.

It was thought at the beginning of the session that
the American duty on tea would be taken off. But
now the wise scheme is to take off so much duty here

126 The Works of [1773

as will make tea cheaper in America than foreigners
can supply us, and confine the duty there, to keep up
the exercise of the right.

They have no idea that any people can act from
any other principle but that of interest; and they
believe that three pence in a pound of tea, of which
one does perhaps drink ten pounds in a year, is suffi-
cient to overcome all the patriotism of an American.

I purpose soon to write you very fully. As to the
letters ' I communicated to you, though I have not
been able to obtain leave to take copies or publish
them, I have permission to let the originals remain
with you as long as you may think it of any use to
have them in possession. With great esteem and
respect, I have the honor to be, sir, etc.,

B. Franklin.

DXI

FROM SAMUEL COOPER

Boston, 14 June, 1773.

Dear Sir: — We have received high eulogiums
upon the replies of our Council and Commons from
gentlemen of the most respectable characters in the
other colonies, where there evidently appears an in-
creasing regard for this province, and an inclination
to unite for the common safety. Virginia has led the
way by proposing a communication and correspond-
ence between all the assemblies through the continent.

' Letters from Governor Hutchinson and Lieutenant-Governor
Oliver, about which see infra, p. 378.

1773] Benjamin Franklin 127

The letter from their committee for this purpose was
received here with no little joy, and the proposal
agreed to in the most ready and respectful manner.
Rhode Island, Connecticut, and New Hampshire
have already chosen committees, so that all New
England is now united with Virginia in this salutary
plan, and the accession of most, if not all, of the other
colonies is not doubted. This opens a most agree-
able prospect to the friends of our common rights.

In my last I mentioned to you my having had a
sight of some letters that had been transmitted to
the Speaker, with leave to communicate them to me
and some others in confidence. I soon apprehended
from the nature of the contents and the number of
persons to whom they were directed to be shown,
that they could not long remain secret. However,
I have preserved inviolable the trust reposed in me.
Some, not named by you as confidants, had hints from
London that such letters were come or coming, and
began to suspect they were concealed in favor of the
writers. The secret was kept till the meeting of the
General Court, when so many members had obtained
such general intimations of it as to render them ex-
tremely inquisitive and solicitous. At last it was
thought best to communicate them to the House,
with the restrictions that accompanied them here.
The House could not act upon them with those
restrictions, but the substance of them was known
everywhere, and the alarm given. Soon after, copies
of them were brought into the House, said to have
come from England by the last ships.

Many members scrupled to act upon these copies

128 The Works of [1773

while they were under such pubhc engagements to
the unknown proprietor of the originals. As the
matter was now so public, and the restrictions could
answer no good end, no view of the sender, but on the
contrary might prevent in a great measure a proper
use of the letters for the public benefit, and for
weakening the influence and power of the writers and
their friends, and disarming their revenge, it was
judged most expedient, by the gentlemen to whom
they were first shown, to allow the House such a use
of the originals as they might think necessary to
found their proceedings upon for the common safety.
By whom and to whom they were sent is still a secret,
known only to three persons here, and may still re-
main so, if you desire it.

I forgot to mention that, upon the first appearance
of the letters in the House, they voted, by a majority
of one hundred and one to five, that the design and
tendency of them were to subvert the constitution
and introduce arbitrary power. Their committee
upon this matter reported this day a nmnber of reso-
lutions, which are to be printed by to-morrow morn-
ing, and every member furnished with a copy, that
they may compare them with the letters; and to-
morrow at three o'clock in the afternoon is the time
appointed to decide upon the report. The accept-
ance of it by a great majority is not doubted.

Should the vessel that is to carry this letter remain
long enough, I will send you a copy of the resolutions.
Nothing could have been more seasonable than the
arrival of these letters. They have had great effect;
they make deep impressions wherever they are

1773] Benjamin Franklin 129

known; they strip the mask from the writers, who,
iinder the professions of friendship to their coimtry,
now plainly appear to have been endeavoring to build
up themselves and their families upon its ruins.
They and their adherents are shocked and dismayed ;
the confidence reposed in them by many is annihi-
lated; and administration must soon see the neces-
sity of putting the provincial power of the crown into
other hands, if they mean it should operate to any
good effect. This, at present, is almost the universal
sentiment.

The House have this day sent up the letters to the
Board, which, I believe, will concur with them in the
substance and spirit of their proceedings. We are
highly indebted to our friends in London, and to you,
sir, in particular, for so important a communication,
and hope, while it supports the cause of truth and
justice, and promotes the deliverance of this abused
and oppressed country, it will be attended with no
disadvantage to them.

The inconveniences that may accidently arise from
such generous interpositions are abundantly compen-
sated by the reflection that they tend to the security
and happiness of millions. I trust, however, that
nothing of this kind will occur to disturb the agree-
able feelings of those who, in this instance, have done
such extensive good. With great esteem, I am, etc.,

Samuel Cooper.

I30 The Works of [1773

DXII

TO M. LE ROY

London, 22 June, 1773.

However glad I was of the occasion, I forbore in-
dulging myself in the pleasure of congratulating by
the first post, my dear double confrere, on his election
into our Royal Society, because Mr. Walsh undertook
to give you the information, which would make a
second expense unnecessary, and I saw I should soon
have this opportunity by the favor of M. Poissonnifere.
I rejoice in the event, as you seemed anxiously con-
cerned about it, and as we have done ourselves honor
in distinguishing and associating a merit so univer-
sally known and acknowledged.

I am pleased to hear that you are engaged in the
consideration of hospitals. I wish any observations
of mine could be of use to you, they should be at your
service. But it is a subject I am very little ac-
quainted with. I can only say that, if a free and
copious respiration is of use in diseases, that seems,
from the experiments I mentioned to M. Dubourg, to
be best obtained by light covering and fresh air con-
tinually changing ; the moisture on the skin, when the
body is warmly covered, being a deception, and the
effect, not of greater transpiration, but of the satura-
tion of the air included under and in the bedclothes,
which therefore can absorb no more, and so leaves it
on the surface of the body. From these experiments I
am convinced of what I indeed before suspected, that
the opinion of perspiration being checked by cold is
an error, as well as that of rheum being occasioned by

1773] Benjamin Franklin 131

cold. But as this is heresy here, and perhaps may
be so with you, I only whisper it and expect you will
keep my secret. Our physicians have begun to dis-
cover that fresh air is good for people in the small-
pox and other fevers. I hope in time they will find
out that it does no harm to people in health.

We have nothing new here in the philosophic way.
I shall like to hear how M. Lavoisier's doctrine sup-
ports itself, as I suppose it will be controverted.
With the greatest esteem, I am ever, dear sir,
Yours most affectionately,

B. Franklin.

P. S. — Enclosed I send you some pamphlets rela-
tive to our American affairs for your amusement.
Sir John Pringle bids me present his compliments.
He interested himself much in the election.

DXIII

FROM THOMAS GUSHING
Province of Massachusetts Bay, 25 Jtme, 1773.

Sir: — The House of Representatives have lately
had divers letters, signed Thomas Hutchinson, An-
drew Oliver, etc., laid before them, attested copies of
which you have enclosed; and after maturely con-
sidering their contents, they have voted as their
sense that the tendency and design of said letters
appear to have been to overthrow the constitution of
this government, and to introduce arbitrary power
into this province; and have passed sundry resolves

132 The Works of [1773

respecting these letters, which accompany this letter.
They have also agreed upon and passed a petition to
his Majesty, which you will receive with this en-
closure, praying that his Excellency, Thomas Hutch-
inson, governor, and Andrew Oliver, lieutenant-
governor, of this province, be removed from the posts
they hold within this government; which petition
you are desired, as soon as possible, to present to his
Majesty; and, as the persons aforenamed have by
their conduct rendered themselves very obnoxious,
and have entirely lost the confidence of this people,
you are desired to use your interest and influence to
support said petition, that it may have its desired
effect ; and you are further directed to employ Arthur
Lee as counsel upon this occasion, and any other
counsel you may think proper.

You are desired also to take effectual care that the
several petitions, relative to the governor and judges
of the Superior Court receiving their support from
the crown, independent of the grants of the people,
may be (if they have not already been) immediately
laid before his Majesty, and strenuously supported;
as they are matters that very nearly and essen-
tially affect our happy constitution, the preservation
of which in a great measure depends upon their meet-
ing with a favorable reception and answer. I have
the honor to be, etc.,

Thomas Gushing,

Speaker.

1773] Benjamin Franklin 133

DXIV

TO M. DUBOURG

London, 29 June, 1773.

Dear Friend: — I have not time now to write
what I intended upon the cause of colds, or rheums ;
and my opinions on that head are so singular here
that I am almost afraid to hazard them abroad. In
the meantime, be so kind as to tell me at your leisure
whether in France you have a general belief, that
moist air, and cold air, and damp shirts or sheets,
and wet floors, and beds that have not been lately
used, and clothes that have not been lately worn, and
going out of a warm room into the air, and leaving
off a long-worn waistcoat, and wearing leaky shoes,
and sitting near an open door or window, or in a
coach with both glasses down, are all or any of them
capable of giving the distemper we call a cold, and
you a rheum, or catarrh? Or are these merely
English ideas?

I am ever, with the greatest esteem and respect,
Dear sir, yours, etc.,

B. Franklin.

DXV

preparatory notes and hints for writing a paper
concerning what is called catching cold

Definition of a Cold

It is a siziness and thickness of the blood, where-
by the smaller vessels are obstructed, and the

134 The Works of [1773

perspirable matter retained, which being retained
offends both by its quantity and quaHty ; by quan-
tity, as it outfills the vessels, and by its quality, as
part of it is acrid, and being retained, produces
coughs and sneezing by irritation.

How this Siziness is Produced

1. By being long exposed in a cold air, without
exercise; cold thickens glue.

2. By a diminished perspiration, either first from
breathing and living in moist air, or, second, from
the clogging of the pores by clammy sweat dried on
and fastening down the scales of the skin ; or, thirdly,
by cold constringing the pores partially or totally,
sleeping or waking ; or, fourthly, by having eat food
of too gross particles for free perspiration, as oysters,
pork duck, etc. People are found frequently costive
after much bathing.

3. By repletion, as when more is thrown into the
habit by eating and drinking than common perspira-
tion is capable of discharging in due time; whence
the vessels are distended beyond their spring, and the
quantity of contained fluid, that should be briskly
moved to preserve or acquire a due thinness, is too
weighty for their force, whence a slow motion, —
thence viscidity. This repletion is increased by a
constipation of the belly happening at the same time.
In an approaching cold, more water is made than
usual.

4. By cooling suddenly in the air after exercise.
Exercise quickening the circulation, produces more

1773] Benjamin Franklin 135

perspirable matter in a given time than is produced
in rest. And though more is likewise usually dis-
charged during exercise, yet on sudden quitting of
exercise, and standing in the air, the circulation and
production of perspirable matter still continuing
some time, the over quantity is retained. It is safer
not to go into water too cold.

5. By particular effluvia in the air, from some im-
known cause. General colds throughout a country.
By being in a coach close, or small room with a per-
son having a cold.

6. By relaxation of the solids, from a warm and
moist air, so that they are too weak to give due
motion to the fluids.

Of partial colds affecting parts only of the body.

Causes of feverishness attending colds.

Ill consequences often attending colds, as pleu-
risies, consumptions, etc. Some never taking cold,
some frequently; cause of the difference.

Present remedies for a cold should be warming,
diluting, bracing.

Means of preventing cold; temperance, choice of
meats and drinks, warm rooms, and lodging and cloth-
ing in winter; dry air, care to keep the belly open,
and frequent discharge of water; warm bathing to
cleanse the skin; rubbing after sweat, especially in
the spring.

Difficulties that first put me on thinking on this
subject. People get cold by less, and not by more, viz. :

By putting a damp shirt on a dry body, — Yes.

By putting on a dry shirt on a wet body, though
this wets the shirt ten times more, — No.

136 The Works of [1773

By sitting in a room where the floor has been
newly washed, — Yes.

By going into a river and staying there an hour
(no sheets so wet), — No.

By wetting the feet only, — Yes.

By wetting all the clothes through to the body, and
wearing them a whole day, — No.

By sitting in a room against a crevice, — Yes.

By sitting as long in the open air, — No.

Few of these effects take place if the vessels are
kept empty.

Reapers in Pennsylvania : —

Drinking cold water when they are hot.

If it makes them sweat, they are safe.

If not, they fall ill, and some die.

People hot should drink by spoonfuls ; the reason.

Taking cold. — The disorder only called so in Eng-
lish, and in no other language.

American Indians in the woods, and the whites in
imitation of them, lie with their feet to the fire in
frosty nights, and take no cold while they can keep
their feet warm.

Feet and hands apt to be cold in that disorder,
and why? Is it the siziness, or the greater evapo-
ration ?

Hottentots grease themselves, — occasions other
evacuations more plentiful. Greasing keeps the
body warm. Bad to hold the water too long.
Parts colder when first unclothed than afterwards,
why?

It was a disgrace among the ancient Persians to
cough or spit.

17731 Benjamin Franklin 137

Probably as it argued intemperance.

Vessels when too full leak. Quicksilver through
leather. Thin fluid leaked evaporates. Comers of
eyes, etc. Sizy will not all evaporate. What is left
corrupts. Hence consumptions. Hectic fevers from
absorption of putrid pus. It ferments the blood like
yeast.

People seldom get cold at sea, though they sleep
in wet clothes. Constant exercise, moderate living.
Bad cooks. Yet air is very moist. Wet floors. Sea
surrounding, etc.

Exercise cures a cold. Bishop Williams riding
several times from London, or Exeter, or Salisbury.

Bark good for a cold, taken early.

Particular parts more accustomed to discharge the
irritating perspirable matter, as under the arms in
some, feet in others, etc.

Experiment of two razors.

Every pain or disorder now ascribed to a cold.

It is the covering excuse of all intemperance.

Numbers of people in a close room, and exercising
there, fill the air with putrid particles.

People killed by House of Commons, breathing the
air through holes in ceiling.

Think they get cold by coming out of such hot
rooms ; they get them by being in.

Those who live in hotter rooms (stoves) get no
colds.

Germans and all the Northern people.

Alderman and turtle.

People remark they were very well before a cold,
and ate hearty. Wonder how they catched it.

138 The Works of [1773

Signs of Temperance

Mouth not clammy after sleep.

Saliva thin and watery.

Eyelids not stuck together with hard glue.

Voice clear.

No phlegm to raise.

Advice for mode of general temperance without ap-
pearing too singular.

Supper not bad after preparatory light dinner.

May be rectified by slight breakfast next morn-
ing. He must be too full that one excess will much
disorder.

Time of great meal mended of late.

One hour variation of compass in twenty years.

After dinner not fit for business.

People from the country get cold when they come
to London, and why? Full living, with moist air.
London air generally moist, why? Much putrid air
in London. Silver, etc.

Cooks and doctors should change maxims.

Common sense more common among the common
Scotch.

Those who do not compare cannot conceive the
difference between themselves and themselves in full
or spare living.

Wet newspapers, why give colds.

Old libraries and damp old books.

Putrid animal matter in paper size.

Courts should not sit after dinner.

Juries fast, a good institution.

17731 Benjamin Franklin 139

Chess — Impatience of deliberation because more
difficult. Writing, etc.

Most follies arise from full feeding. Reasons pro
and con not at all present.

Temperate nation wisest.

Dining entertainments bad.

Remains of barbarism, — expensive.

Full feeding of children stupefies.

Fasting strengthens reason rather than subdues
passion.

People often do not get cold when they think they
do, and do when they think they do not.

Causes of cold are primary and secondary.

Colds are of different kinds, putrid and plethoric.

Scarce any air abroad so unwholesome as air in a
close room often breathed.

Warm air dissolves more moisture than cold.

In hot countries men wrap themselves in wet sheets
to sleep.

A general service to redeem people from the slav-
ish fear of getting cold by showing them where the
danger is not, and that where it is, it is in their power
to avoid it.

Surfeit, an expression formerly used, now laid
aside.

Costiveness occasioning colds, how to be prevented.

Colds formerly called rheums and catarrhs.

Particular foods said to engender rheums.

Query. — Is Mr. Wood more or less subject to catch
cold since he betook himself to his low diet ?

Answer (by Mr. Wood).— He now finds himself
much more healthy, and much less liable to catch

I40 The Works of [1773

cold. What few colds he now catches are so very-
slight, that he is not sensible of them, but from the
urine, which is then not so clear.

I caused the above question to be asked Mr. Wood,
and obtained the answer. It is the Mr. Wood who
lives upon a pound of flour in a pudding.

B. Franklin.

Dampier, speaking of the customs of the people at
Mindanoo (p. 330) says: "You see abundance of
people in the river from morning to night washing
their bodies or clothes ; they strip and stand naked
till they have done; then put them on and march
out again."

Dr. Gregory says: "All that class of diseases
which arise from catching cold, is only found among
the civilized part of mankind. An old Roman or an
Indian, in the pursuit of war or hunting, would
plrmge into a river whilst in a profuse sweat, without
fear, and without danger. The greater care we take
to prevent catching cold, by the various contrivances
of modem luxury, the more we become subject to
it. We can guard against cold only by rendering
ourselves superior to its influence. There is a strik-
ing instance of this in the vigorous constitutions
of children who go thinly clad in all seasons and
weathers."

The coats of the vessels are a kind of network,
which contains the fluids only when not so pressed
as to enlarge the pores of the net, or when the fluids
are not so pressed as to break the cohesion of the
globules or particles, so as to make them small

1773] Benjamin Franklin 141

enough to come through. When the vessels are full,
occasioned by a course of full living, they labor in
carrying on the circulation ; their spring or power of
contraction and compressing the fluids they contain,
being over strained is weakened, the circulation pro-
ceeds more slowly, the fluids thicken and become
more gluey, both for want of due churning and be-
cause less heat is produced in the body. Such a body
requires more aid of clothing and fire to preserve its
warmth.

If a person in that state of body walks a mile or
two, or uses any other exercise that warms him, the
fluids are rarefied by the heat, distend the vessels
still more, and the thinner parts of the fluids in ten-
der places force out through the pores of the vessels
in form of a gluey water, viz. : at the eyes, within
the nose, and within the lungs. This is moderate
exercise.

If the exercise is increased it comes through every
pore in the skin, and is called sweat.

The more volatile parts of this extravasated fluid
evaporate, and fly off in the air; the gluey part re-
mains, thickens, and hardens more or less, as it be-
comes more or less dry; in the nose and on the
lungs, where air is continually coming and going, it
soon becomes a mucus, but can hardly grow drier be-
cause surrounded with moist parts and supplied with
more moisture. What oozes out of the corner of
the eye when shut, as in sleep, hardens into what is
called a kind of gum, being in fact dry glue.

This in a morning almost sticks the eyelids to-
gether.

142 The Works of [1773

With such mucous matter the nose is sometimes al-
most stopped, and must be cleared by strong blowing.

In the windpipe and on the lungs it gathers and is
impacted, so as sometimes to induce a continual
coughing and hawking to discharge it.

If not easily discharged, but remaining long adher-
ing to the lungs, it corrupts and inflames the parts it
is in contact with ; even behind the ears and between
the parts of the body so constantly in contact, that
the perspirable matter, sweat, etc., cannot easily es-
cape from between them ; the skin is inflamed by
it, and a partial putrefaction begins to take place,
they corrupt and ulcerate. The vessels being thus
wounded, discharge greater and continual quantities.
Hence consumption.

Part of the corrupted matter, absorbed again by
the vessels and mixed with the blood, occasions hec-
tic fevers.

When the body has sweated, not from a dissolution
of fluids, but from the force above mentioned, as the
sweat dries off, some clammy substance remains in
the pores, which closes many of them, wholly or in
part. The subsequent perspiration is hereby lessened.

The perspirable matter consists of parts approach-
ing to putrefaction, and therefore destined by nature
to be thrown off, that living bodies might not putrefy,
which otherwise, from their warmth and moisture,
they would be apt to do.

These corrupting particles, if continually thrown
off, the remainder of the body continues uncorrupt,
or approaches no nearer to a state of putrefaction.
Just as in boiling water, no greater degree of heat

17731 Benjamin Franklin i43

than the boiling heat can be acquired, because the par-
ticles that grow hotter, as fast as they become so, fly
off in vapor. But if the vapor could be retained,
water might be made much hotter, perhaps red-hot,
as oil may, which is not so subject to evaporation.
So if the perspirable matter is retained it remixes with
blood, and produces first, a slight putrid fever, attend-
ing always what we call a cold, and when retained
in a great degree, more mischievous putrid diseases.

In hot countries, exercise of body with the heat of
the climate create much of this putrid perspirable
matter, which ought to be discharged. A check is
in those countries very pernicious ; putrid malignant
violent fevers, and speedy death, the consequence.

Its discharge is also checked another way besides
that of closing the pores, viz., by being in an air al-
ready full of it, as in close rooms containing great
numbers of people, play-houses, ball-rooms, etc.

For air containing a quantity of any kind of vapor,
becomes thereby less capable of imbibing more of
that vapor, and finally will take no more of it.

If the air will not take it off from the body, it must
remain in the body ; and the perspiration is as effect-
ually stopped, and the perspirable matter as certainly
retained, as if the pores were all stopped.

A lock of wet wool contained in a nutmeg-grater,
may dry, parting with its moisture through the holes
of the grater. But if you stop all those holes with
wax it will never dry. Nor, if exposed to the open
air, will it dry when the air is as moist as itself. On
the contrary, if already dry, and exposed to moist air,
it would acquire moisture.

144 The Works of [1773

Thus people in rooms heated by a multitude of
people, find their own bodies heated; thence the
quantity of perspirable matter is increased that
should be discharged, but the air, not being changed,
grows so full of the same matter, that it will receive
no more. So the body must retain it. The conse-
quence is that next day, perhaps sooner, a slight
putrid fever comes on, with all the marks of what we
call a cold, and the disorder is supposed to be got by
coming out of a warm room, whereas it was really
taken while in that room.

Putrid ferments beget their like. — Small-pox —
Wet rotten paper, containing corrupt glue. The
cold fever communicable by the breath to others,
etc.

Urine retained, occasions sneezing, etc.

Coughing and spitting continually, marks of in-
temperance.

People eat much more than is necessary.

Proportionable nourishment and strength is not
drawn from great eating.

The succeeding meals force the preceding through
half -undigested.

Small meals continue longer in the body, and are
more thoroughly digested.

The vessels being roomy can bear and receive
without hurt, an accidental excess.

They can concrete more easily.

There is less quantity of corrupting particles pro-
duced.

Putrid fish very bad.

Black Hole in the Indies.

1773] Benjamin Franklin 145

DXVI

QUERIES ON ELECTRICITY, FROM DR. INGENHOUSZ/
WITH ANSWERS BY DR. FRANKLIN

QUESTION I

If the electrical fluid is truly accumulated on the in-
side of a Ley den phial, and expelled in the same pro-
portion from the other side, why are the particles of
glass not all thrown outwards, when the phial being
overcharged breaks, or is perforated by a sponta-
neous explosion.?

ANSWER

By the circumstances that have appeared to me, in
all the jars that I have seen perforated at the time of
their explosion, I have imagined that the charge did
not pass by those perforations. Several single jars,
that have broke while I was charging them, have
shown, besides the perforation in the body, a trace
on both sides of the neck, where the polish of the
glass was taken off the breadth of a straw, which
proved that great part at least of the charge, proba-
bly all, had passed over that trace. I was once pres-
ent at the discharge of a battery containing thirty
jars, of which eight were perforated and spoilt at the
time of the discharge, yet the effect of the charge on
the bodies upon which it was intended to operate did
not appear to be diminished. Another time I was

'An eminent physician and chemist, bom at Breda in 1730. He
passed a large part of his life in England, where he died, September 7,
179Q. He was a copious correspondent of Franklin.

VOL. VI. — 10.

146 The Works of [1773

present when twelve out of twenty jars were broken
at the time of the discharge, yet the effect of the
charge, which passed in the regular circuit, was the
same as it would have been if they had remained
whole. Were those perforations an effect of the
charge within the jar forcing itself through the glass
to get at the outside, other difficulties would arise
and demand explanation, i. How it happens that
in eight bottles, and in twelve, the strength to bear
a strong charge should be so equal, that no one of
them would break before the rest, and thereby
save his fellows, but all should burst at the same
instant. 2. How it happens that they bear the
force of the great charge till the instant that an easier
means of discharge is offered them, which they
make use of, and yet the fluid breaks through at the
same time.

My conjecture is that there has been, in the place
where the rupture happens, some defect in the glass,
some grain of sand perhaps, or some little bubble in
the substance nearly void, where, during the charging
of the jar, the electric fluid is forced in and confined
till the pressure is suddenly taken off by the dis-
charge, when, not being able to escape so quickly, it
bursts its way out by its elastic force. Hence all the
ruptures happen nearly at the same instant with the
regular discharge, though really a little posterior, not
being themselves discharges, but the effects of a dis-
charge which passed in another channel.

QUESTION II

When a strong explosion is directed through a pack

17731 Benjamin Franklin 147

of cards or a book, having a piece of tinfoil between
several of its leaves, the electrical flash makes an im-
pression in some of those metallic leaves, by which it
seems as if the direction of the electric explosion had
gone from the outside towards the inside, when on the
other metallic leaves, the impression is in such a
direction that it indicates the current of electrical
fire to have made its way from the inside of the phial
towards the outside, so that it appears to some elec-
tricians that, in the time of the explosion of an elec-
trical phial, two streams of electrical fire rush at the
same time from both surfaces, and meet or cross one
another.

ANSWER

These impressions are not effects of a moving body,
striking with force in the direction of its motion;
they are made by the burs rising in the neighbor-
ing perforated cards, which rise accidently, some-
times on one side of a card, and sometimes on the
other, in consequence of certain circumstances in the
form of their substances or situations. In a single
card, supported without touching others, while per-
forated by the passing fluid, the bur generally rises
on both sides, as I once showed to Mr. Symmer at
his house. I imagine that the hole is made by a fine
thread of electric fluid passing, and augmented
to a bigger thread at the time of the explosion,
which, obliging the parts of a card to recede every
way, condenses a part within the substance, and
forces a part out on each side, because there is least
resistance.

148 The Works of [1773

QUESTION III

When a flash of lightning happens to hit a flat
piece of metal, the metal has sometimes been pierced
with several holes, whose edges were turned some the
one way and some the other, so that it has appeared
to some philosophers that several streams of elec-
trical fire had rushed in one way and some the op-
posite way. Such an effect of lightning has been
published lately by Father Barletti.

ANSWER

This will be answered in my remarks on Mr.
Barletti 's book; which remarks, when finished, I will
send you.

QUESTION IV

Though, from the very charging of the Ley den
phial, it seems clear that the electrical fluid does in
reality not prevade the substance of glass, yet it is
still difficult to conceive how such a subtile fluid
may be forced out from one side of a very thick pane
of glass, by a similar quantity of electrical fire thrown
upon the other surface, and yet that it does not pass
through any substance of glass, however thin, with-
out breaking it. Is there some other fact or illustra-
tion besides those to be found in your public writings,
by which it may be made more obvious to our under-
standing that electrical fire does not enter at all the
very substance of glass, and yet may force from the
opposite surface an equal quantity ; or that it really
enters the pores of the glass without breaking it? Is

1773] Benjamin Franklin 149

there any comparative illustration or example in
nature by which it may be made clear that a fluid
thrown upon one surface of any body may force out
the same fluid from the other surface without passing
through the substance ?

ANSWER

That the electric fluid, by its reptdsive nature, is
capable of forcing portions of the same fluid out of
bodies without entering them itself appears from this
experiment. Approach an isolated body with a
rubbed tube of glass, the side next the tube will then
be electrized negatively, the opposite positively. If
a pair of cork balls hang from that opposite side, the
electrical fluid forced out of the body will appear in
those balls, causing them to diverge. Touch that
opposite side, and you thereby take away the positive
electricity. Then remove the tube, and you leave
the body all in a negative state. Hence it appears
that the electric fluid appertaining to the glass tube
did not enter the body, but retired with the tube,
otherwise it would have supplied the body with the
electricity it had lost.

With regard to powder magazines, my idea is that,
to prevent the mischief which might be occasioned by
the stones of their walls flying about in case of acci-
dental explosion, they should be constructed in the
ground; that the walls should be lined with lead, the
floor lead, all a quarter of an inch thick and the joints
well soldered; the cover copper, with a little scuttle
to enter the whole, in the form of a canister for tea.
If the edges of the cover-scuttle fall into a copper

I50 The Works of [1773

channel containing mercury, not the smallest particle
of air or moisture can enter to the powder, even
though the walls stood in water or the whole was
under water.

DXVII

TO THOMAS GUSHING

London, 7 July, 1773.

Sir : — I thank you for the pamphlets you have sent
me, containing the controversy between the governor
and the two Houses. I have distributed them where
I thought they might be of use. He makes perhaps
as much of his argimient as it will bear, but has the
misfortune of being on the weak side, and so is put
to shifts and quibbles, and the use of much sophistry
and artifice, to give plausibility to his reasonings.
The Council and the Assembly have greatly the
advantage in point of fairness, perspicuity, and force.
His precedents of acts of Parliament binding the
colonies, and our tacit consent to those acts, are all
frivolous. Shall a guardian, who has imposed upon,
cheated, and plundered a minor under his care, who
was imable to prevent it, plead those impositions
after his ward has discovered them, as precedents and
authorities for continuing them. There have been
precedents, time out of mind, for robbing on Houns-
low Heath, but the highwayman who robbed there
yesterday does nevertheless deserve hanging.

I am glad to see the resolves of the Virginia House

1773] Benjamin Franklin 151

of Burgesses.' There are brave spirits among that
people. I hope their proposal will be readily com-
plied with by all the colonies. It is natural to sup-
pose, as you do, that, if the oppressions continue, a
congress may grow out of that correspondence.
Nothing would more alarm our ministers; but, if the
colonies agree to hold a congress, I do not see how it
can be prevented.

The instruction relating to the exemption of the
commissioners I imagine is withdrawn ; perhaps the
others also, relating to the agents, but of that I have
heard nothing. I only wonder that the governor
should make such a declaration of his readiness to
comply with an intimation in acting contrary to any
instructions, if he had not already, or did not soon
expect a repeal of those instructions. I have not and
shall never use your name on this or any similar
occasion.

I note your directions relating to public and private
letters, and shall not fail to observe them. At the
same time I think all the correspondence should be in
the Speaker's power to communicate such extracts
only as he should think proper for the House. It is
extremely embarrassing to an agent to write letters
concerning his transactions with ministers, which let-
ters he knows are to be read in the House, where
there may be governor's spies, who carry away parts,
or perhaps take copies, that are echoed back hither

I The resolves, appointing a Committee of Correspondence, and re-
questing the legislatures of the other colonies to do the same, for the
purpose of promoting concert of action, were passed on the 12th of
March, 1773, by the other colonies. See the Resolves in Wirt's Life
of Patrick Henry, 3d ed., p. 87.

152 The Works of [1773

privately; if they should not be, as sometimes they
are, printed in the Votes. It is impossible to write
freely in such circumstances, unless he would hazard
his usefulness, and put it out of his power to do his
country any further service. I speak this now, not
upon my own account, being about to decline all pub-
lic business, but for your consideration with regard to
future agents.

And, now we speak of agents, I must mention my
concern, that I should fall under so severe a censure
of the House, as that of neglect in their business. I
have submitted to the reproof without reply in my
public letter, out of pure respect. It is not decent to
dispute a father's admonitions. But to you in pri-
vate, permit me to observe that, as to the two things
I am blamed for not giving the earliest notice of, viz.,
the clause in the act relating to dockyards, and the
appointment of salaries for the governor and judges,
the first only seems to have some foundation. I did
not know, but perhaps I ought to have known, that
such a clause was intended. And yet in a Parlia-
ment, that during the whole session refused admis-
sion to strangers, wherein near two hundred acts
were passed, it is not so easy a matter to come at the
knowledge of every clause in every act, and to give
opposition to what may affect one's constituents;
especially when it is not uncommon to smuggle
clauses into a bill, whose title shall give no suspicion,
when an opposition to such clauses is apprehended.
I say this is no easy matter. But, had I known of
this clause, it is not likely I could have prevented its
passing in the present disposition of government

1773] Benjamin Franklin 153

towards America ; nor do I see that my giving earlier
notice of its having passed cotild have been of much
service.

As to the other, concerning the governor and
judges, I should hardly have thought of sending the
House an account of it, if the minister had mentioned
it to me ; as I understood from their first letter to me,
that they had already the best intelligence " of its be-
ing determined by administration to bestow large
salaries on the attome3-general, judges, and governor
of the province. ' ' I could not therefore possibly ' 'give
the first notice of this impending evil." I answered,
however, " that there was no doubt of the intention of
making governors, and some other officers, indepen-
dent of the people for their support; and that this
purpose will be persisted in, if the American revenue
is found deficient to defray the salaries." This cen-
sure, though grievous, does not so much surprise me,
as I apprehended all along from the beginning, that
between the friends of an old agent, my predecessor,
who thought himself hardly used in his dismission,
and those of a young one impatient for the suc-
cession, my situation was not likely to be a very
comfortable one, as my faults could scarce pass
unobserved.'

^ The young agent here mentioned, as "impatient for the succession,"
was Arthur Lee. He was called in English circles Junius Americanus,
to distinguish him from his elder brother, Richard Henry Lee. Ar-
thur was admitted to the bar in England, and commenced the practice
of the Law in London. Dr. Franklin's original appointment as the
agent of Massachusetts was made in contemplation of his being de-
tained from home for only a brief period, and Arthur Lee, being a resi-
dent in London and a man of many accomplishments for such an
agency, was chosen to succeed him and to act in his absence. Franklin,

154 The Works of [1773

I think of leaving England in September. As
soon as possible after my arrival in America, I pur-
pose, God willing, to visit Boston, when I hope to
have the pleasure of paying my respects to you. I
shall then give every information in my power, and
offer every advice relating to our affairs, not so con-
venient to be written, that my situation here for so
many years may enable me to suggest for the benefit
of our country. Some time before my departure I
shall put your papers into the hands of Mr. Lee, and
assist him with my counsel while I stay, where there
may be any occasion for it. He is a gentleman of
parts and ability ; and, though he cannot exceed me
in sincere zeal for the interest and prosperity of the
province, his youth will easily enable him to serve it
with more activity. I am, sir, very respectfully, etc.,

B. Franklin.

DXVIII

TO THOMAS GUSHING

London, 7 July, 1773.

Sir: — The Parliament is at length prorogued, with-
out meddling with the state of America. Their time
was much employed in the East India business ; and
perhaps it was not thought prudent to lay before

however, remained abroad much longer than he or his constituents
had anticipated, and, to Lee's great chagrin. It was tmder these cir-
cumstances that the jealousy of Franklin began, which tortured Lee
for the remainder of his life, and very soon destroyed in Europe what-
ever influence his talents and unquestioned patriotism would have
otherwise entitled him to. — Editor.

1773] Benjamin Franklin 155

them the advices from New England, though some
threatening intimations had been given of such an
intention. The king's firm answer, as it is called, to
our petitions and remonstrances, has probably been
judged sufficient for the present. I forwarded that
answer to you by the last packet, and sent a copy of
it by a Boston ship the beginning of last month.
Therein we are told that "his Majesty has well
weighed the subject-matter and the expressions con-
tained in those petitions; and that, as he will ever
attend to the humble petitions of his subjects, and
be forward to redress every real grievance, so he
is determined to support the constitution, and resist
with firmness every attempt to derogate from the
authority of the supreme legislature.''

By this it seems that some exception is taken to
the expressions of the petitions, as not sufficiently
humble, that the grievances complained of are not
thought real grievances, that Parliament is deemed
the supreme legislature, and its authority over the
colonies supposed to be the constitution. Indeed,
the last idea is expressed more fully in the next
paragraph, where the words of the act are used,
declaring the right of the crown, with the advice
of Parliament, to make laws of sufficient force and
validity to bind its subjects in America in all cases
whatsoever.

When one considers the king's situation, sur-
roimded by ministers, coimsellors, and judges,
learned in the law, who are all of this opinion, and re-
flects how necessary it is for him to be well with his
Parliament, from whose yearly grants his fleets and

156 The Works of [1773

armies are to be supported, and the deficiencies of his
civil list supplied, it is not to be wondered at that he
should be firm in an opinion established, as far as an
act of Parliament could establish it, by even the
friends of America at the time they repealed the
Stamp Act; and which is so generally thought right
by his Lords and Commons, that any act of his,
countenancing the contrary, would hazard his em-
broiling himself with those powerful bodies. And
from hence it seems hardly to be expected from him,
that he should take any step of that kind. The
grievous instructions, indeed, might be withdrawn
without their observing it, if his Majesty thought fit
to do so; but, under the present prejudices of all
about him, it seems that this is not yet likely to be
advised.

The question then arises, how are we to obtain
redress? If we look back into the Parhamentary
history of this country we shall find that, in similar
situations of the subjects here, redress would seldom
be obtained but by withholding aids when the sov-
ereign was in distress, till the grievances were removed.
Hence the rooted custom of the Commons to keep
money bills in their own disposition, not suffering
even the Lords to meddle in grants, either as to
quantity, manner of raising, or even in the smallest
circumstance. This country pretends to be collec-
tively our sovereign. It is now deeply in debt. Its
funds are far short of recovering their par since the
last war; another would distress it still more. Its
people diminish, as well as its credit. Men will be
wanted as well as money. The colonies are rapidly

1773] Benjamin Franklin 157

increasing in wealth and numbers. In the last war
they maintained an army of twenty-five thousand. A
country able to do that is no contemptible ally. In
another war they may perhaps do twice as much with
equal ease. Whenever a war happens our aid will be
wished for, our friendship desired and cultivated, our
good-will courted. Then is the time to say, " Redress
our grievances. You take money from us by force,
and now you ask it of voluntary grant. You cannot
have it both ways. If you choose to have it without
our consent, you must go on taking it in that way,
and be content with what little you can so obtain. If
you would have our free gifts, desist from your
compulsive methods, and acknowledge our rights,
and secure our future enjoyment of them." Our
claims will then be attended to, and our complaints,
regarded.

By what I perceived not long since, when a war
was apprehended with Spain, the different counte-
nance put on by some great men here towards those
who were thought to have a little influence in Amer-
ica, and the language that began to be held with
regard to the then minister for the colonies, I am con-
fident that if that war had taken place he would have
been immediately dismissed, all his measures re-
versed, and every step taken to recover our affection
and procure our assistance. Thence I think it fair to
conclude that similar effects will probably be pro-
duced by similar circumstances.

But as the strength of an empire depends not only
on the union of its parts, but on their readiness for
united exertion of their common force; and as the

158 The Works of [1773

discussion of rights may seem unseasonable in the
commencement of actual war, and the delay it might
occasion be prejudicial to the common welfare; as
likewise the refusal of one or a few colonies would
not be so much regarded if the others granted
liberally, which perhaps by various artifices and
motives they might be prevailed on to do; and as
this want of concert would defeat the expectation
of general redress that otherwise might be justly
formed ; perhaps it would be best and fairest for the
colonies, in a general congress now in peace to be
assembled, or by means of the correspondence lately
proposed, after a full and solemn assertion and decla-
ration of their rights, to engage firmly with each other
that they will never grant aids to the crown in any
general war, till those rights are recognized by the
king and both Houses of Parliament; communicat-
ing at the same time to the crown this their resolu-
tion. Such a step I imagine will bring the dispute to
a crisis; and, whether our demands are immediately
complied with, or compulsory measures thought of
to make us rescind them, our ends will finally be
obtained; for even the odium accompanying such
compulsory attempts will contribute to unite and
strengthen us, and in the meantime all the world
will allow that our proceeding has been honorable.

No one doubts the advantage of a strict union
between the mother country and the colonies, if it
may be obtained and preserved on equitable terms.
In every fair connection each party should find its
own interest. Britain will find hers in our joining
with her in every war she makes, to the greater

1773] Benjamin Franklin 159

annoyance and terror of her enemies ; in our employ-
ment of her manufactures, and enriching her mer-
chants by our commerce; and her government will
feel some additional strengthening of its hands by the
disposition of our profitable posts and places. On
our side, we have to expect the protection she can
afford us, and the advantage of a common imipire in
our disputes, thereby preventing wars we might
otherwise have with each other; so that we can
without interruption go on with our improvements,
and increase our numbers. We ask no more of her,
and she should not think of forcing more from us.

By the exercise of prudent moderation on her part,
mixed with a little kindness; and by a decent be-
havior on ours, excusing where we can excuse from a
consideration of circumstances, and bearing a little
with the infirmities of her government, as we would
with those of an aged parent, though firmly asserting
our privileges, and declaring that we mean at a proper
time to vindicate them, this advantageous union may
still be long continued. We wish it, and we may en-
deavor it, but God will order it as to his wisdom shall
seem most suitable. The friends of liberty here
wish we may long preserve it on our side of the
water, that they may find it there, if adverse events
should destroy it here. They are therefore anxious
and afraid, lest we should hazard it by premature at-
tempts in its favor. They think we may risk much
by violent measures, and that the risk is unnecessary,
since a little time must infallibly bring us all we de-
mand or desire, and bring it to us in peace and safety.
I do not presume to advise. There are many wiser

i6o The Works of [1773

men among you, and I hope you will be directed by
a still superior wisdom.

With regard to the sentiments of people in general
here, concerning America, I must say that we have
among them many friends and well-wishers. The
Dissenters are all for us, and many of the merchants
and manufacturers. There seems to be, even among
the country-gentlemen, a general sense of our grow-
ing importance, a disapprobation of the harsh meas-
ures with which we have been treated, and a wish
that some means may be found of perfect reconcilia-
tion. A few members of Parliament in both Houses,
and perhaps some in high office, have in a degree the
same ideas, but none of these seem willing as yet to
be active in our favor, lest adversaries should take
advantage, and charge it upon them as a betraying
the interests of this nation. In this state of things,
no endeavor of mine, or our other friends here, "to
obtain a repeal of the acts so oppressive to the colo-
nists, or the orders of the crown so destructive of
charter rights of our province in particular, can ex-
pect a sudden success." By degrees, and a judicious
improvement of events, we may work a change in
minds and measures, but otherwise such great altera-
tions are hardly to be looked for.

I am thankful to the House for their kind atten-
tion, in repeating their grant to me of six hundred
pounds. Whether the instruction restraining the
governor's assent is withdrawn or not, or is likely to
be, I cannot tell, having never solicited or even once
mentioned it to Lord Dartmouth, being resolved to
owe no obligation to the favor of any minister. If,

1773] Benjamin Franklin i6i

from a sense of right, that instruction should be re-
called, and the general principle on which it was
founded is given up, all will be very well; but you
can never think it worth while to employ an agent
here, if his being paid or not is to depend on the
breath of a minister, and I should think it a situation
too suspicious, and therefore too dishonorable for
me to remain in a single hour. Living frugally, I am
under no immediate necessity ; and, if I serve my con-
stituents faithfully, though it should be unsuccess-
fully, I am confident they will always have it in their
inclination, and some time or other in their power, to
make their grants effectual.

A gentleman of our province. Captain Calef, is
come hither as an agent for some of the eastern
townships, to obtain a confirmation of their lands.
Sir Francis Bernard seems inclined to make use of
this person's application for promoting a separation
of that country from your province, and making it
a distinct government; to which purpose he pre-
pared a draft of a memorial for Calef to present,
setting forth not only the hardship of being without
security in the property of their improvements, but
also of the distress of the people there for want
of government; that they were at too great a
distance from that of the government in the Mass-
achusetts to be capable of receiving the benefits of
government from thence, and expressing their will-
ingness to be separated and formed into a new
province, etc.

With this draft Sir Francis and Mr. Calef came to
me to have my opinion. I read it, and observed to

VOL. VI.— II.

1 62 The Works of [1773

them that though I wished the people quieted in their
possessions, and would do any thing I could to assist
in obtaining the assurance of their property, yet, as I
knew the province of Massachusetts had a right to
that country of which they were justly tenacious, I
must oppose that part of the memorial, if it should
be presented. Sir Francis allowed the right, but pro-
posed that a great tract of land between the Merri-
mack and Connecticut rivers, which had been alio ted
to New Hampshire, might be restored to our province,
by order of the crown, as a compensation. This, he
said, would be of more value to us than that eastern
cotintry, as being nearer home, etc. I said I would
mention it in my letters, but must in the meantime
oppose any step taken in the affair before the sen-
timents of the General Court should be known as to
such an exchange, if it were offered. Mr. Calef him-
self did not seem fond of the draft, and I have not
seen him or heard any thing further of it since ; but
I shall watch it.

Be pleased to present my dutiful respects to the
House, and believe me with sincere and great esteem,
sir, your most obedient and most htmible servant,

B. Franklin.

DXIX

TO SAMUEL MATHER '

London, 7 July, 1773.

Reverend Sir: — By a line of the 4th past, I ac-
knowledged the receipt of your favor of March i8th,

» A clergyman of Boston, and son of the celebrated Cotton Mather.

1773] Benjamin Franklin 163

and sent you with it two pamphlets. I now add
another, a spirited address to the bishops who op-
posed the Dissenters' petition. It is written by a
dissenting minister at York. There is preserved at
the end of it a little fugitive piece of mine, written on
the same occasion.

I perused your tracts with pleasure. I see you in-
herit all the various learning of your famous ancestors,
Cotton and Increase Mather, both of whom I remem-
ber. The father, Increase, I once, when a boy, heard
preach at the Old South for Mr. Pemberton, and
remember his mentioning the death of " that wicked
old persecutor of God's people, Louis XIV.," of
which news had just been received, but which proved
premature. I was, some years afterwards, at his
house at the North End, on some errand to him, and
remember him sitting in an easy chair, apparently
very old and feeble. But Cotton I remember in the
vigor of his preaching and usefulness.

You have made the most of your argument to
prove that America might be known to the ancients.
There is another discovery of [mutilated] by the Nor-
wegians, which you have not mentioned, unless it be
under the words " of old viewed and observed," page
7. About twenty-five years since. Professor Kalm, a
learned Swede, was with us in Pennsylvania. He
contended that America was discovered by their
northern people long before the time of Colimibus,
which I doubting, he drew up and gave me, some
time after, a note of those discoveries, which I send
you enclosed. It is his own handwriting, and his own
English, very intelligible for the time he had been

1 64 The Works of [1773

among us. The circumstances give the account a
great appearance of authenticity. And if one may
judge by the description of the winter, the country
they visited should be southward of New England,
supposing no change since that time of the climate.
But if it be true, as Krantz, I think, and other his-
torians tell us, that old Greenland, once inhabited
and populous, is now rendered uninhabited by
ice, it should seem that the almost perpetual
northern winter had gained ground to the southward,
and if so, perhaps more northern countries might
anciently have had vmes than can bear them in
these days.

The remarks you have added, on the late proceed-
ings against America, are very just and judicious;
and I cannot at all see any impropriety in your mak-
ing them, though a minister of the gospel. This
kingdom is a good deal indebted for its liberties to
the public spirit of its ancient clergy, who joined with
the barons in obtaining Magna Charta, and joined
heartily in forming the curses of excommunication
against the infringers of it. There is no doubt but
the claim of Parliament, of authority to make laws
binding on the colonists in all cases whatsoever, in-
cludes an authority to change our religious constitu-
tion, and establish Popery or Mahometanism, if they
please, in its stead ; but, as you intimate, power does
not infer right; and, as the right is nothing, and the
power, by our increase, continually diminishing, the
one will soon be as insignificant as the other. You
seem only to have made a small mistake, in supposing
they modestly avoided to declare they had a right,

1773] Benjamin Franklin 165

the words of the act being, " that they have and of
right ought to have, full power, etc."

Your suspicion " that sundry others, besides Gov-
ernor Bernard, had written hither their opinions and
counsels, encouraging the late measures to the pre-
judice of our country, which have been too much
heeded and followed," is, I apprehend, but too well
founded. You call them "traitorous individuals,"
whence I collect that you suppose them of our own
country. There was among the twelve Apostles one
traitor who betrayed with a kiss. It should be no
wonder, therefore, if among so many thousand true
patriots as New England contains, there should be
found even twelve Judases ready to betray their
country for a few paltry pieces of silver. Their ends,
as well as their views, ought to be similar. But all
these oppressions evidently work for our good.
Providence seems by every means intent on making
us a great people. May our virtues public and pri-
vate grow with us, and be durable, that liberty, civil
and religious, may be secured to our posterity, and to
all from every part of the Old World that take refuge
among us.

With great esteem, and my best wishes for a long
continuance of your usefulness, I am, reverend sir,
your most obedient humble servant,

B. Franklin.

1 66 The Works of [1773

DXX

TO SAMUEL COOPER '

London, 7 July, 1773.

I congratulate you on the finishing of your new
meeting-house. I have considered, as well as I can,
without being on the spot, the intention of warming
it by some machine in the cold, damp seasons. It
must be a matter of difficulty to warm sensibly all
the air in so large and so lofty a room, especially if
the fire is not kept up in it constantly on the week-
days as well as on Sundays. For, though the machine
is very large and made very hot, yet the space of air
and quantity of wall to be warmed is so great, that it
must be long before any considerable effect will be
produced. Then it will descend by the walls and
windows, which being very cold by the preceding
week's absence of fire, will cool that descending air
so much in so long a descent, that it will fall very
heavily and imcomfortably upon the heads of all that
happened to sit under it, and will proceed in cold
currents along the floor to the warming machine
wherever it is situated. This must continue till the
walls are warmed, for which I think one day is by no
means sufficient, and that therefore a fire kindled in
the morning of the Sabbath will afford no comfort to
the congregation that day, except to a few that sit
near it, and some inconvenience to the rest from the
currents above mentioned.

If, however, your people, as they are rich, can af-
ford it, and may be willing to indulge themselves,

I Dr. Samuel Cooper, a prominent clergyman of Boston.

1 773] Benjamin Franklin 167

shoiild choose to keep up a constant fire in the winter
months, you may have from this country a machine
for the purpose, cast from the same patterns with
those now used at the Bank, or that in Lincoln's Inn
Hall, which are placed in the middle of the respective
rooms. The smoke of these descends, and passing
tmder ground, rises in some chimney at a distance.
Yours must be a chimney built, I suppose, without
the house ; and, as it ought to draw well to prevent
your being troubled with smoke (as they often are at
the Bank), it should be on the south side; but this I
fear would disfigure your front. That at Lincoln's
Inn Hall draws better. They are in the front of tem-
ples, cast in iron, with columns, cornices, and every
member of elegant architecture.

And I mention casting them from the same pat-
terns or moulds, because, those being already made,
a great deal of work and expense will thereby be
saved. But if you can cast them in New England,
a large vase, or an antique altar, which are more
simple forms, may answer the purpose as well, and
be more easily executed. Yet after all, when I con-
sider the little effect I have observed from these ma-
chines in those great rooms, the complaints of people
who have tried Buzaglo's stoves in halls, and how
far your meeting-house must exceed them in all its
dimensions, I apprehend that after a great deal of
expense, and a good deal of dust on the seats and in
the pews, which they constantly occasion, you will
not find your expectations answered. And per-
suaded as I am, from philosophic considerations, that
no one ever catches the disorder we call a cold from

1 68 The Works of [1773

cold air, and therefore never at meeting, I should
think it rather advisable to those who cannot well
bear it, to guard against the short inconvenience of
cold feet (which only takes place towards the end of
the service), by basses or bearskin cases to put the
legs in, or by small stoves with a few coals under
foot, more majorum.

B. Franklin

DXXI

TO SAMUEL COOPER

London, 7 July, 1773.

Dear Sir: — I received your very valuable favors
of March 15th and April 23d. It rejoices me to find
your health so far restored that your friends can
again be benefited by your correspondence.

The governor was certainly out in his politics, if
he hoped to recommend himself there, by entering
upon that dispute with the Assembly. His impru-
dence in bringing it at all upon the tapis, and his
bad management of it, are almost equally censured.
The Council and Assembly on the other hand have,
by the coolness, clearness, and force of their answers,
gained great reputation.

The unanimity of our towns in their sentiments of
liberty gives me great pleasure, as it shows the
generally enlightened state of our people's minds,
and the falsehood of the opinion, much cultivated
here by the partisans of arbitrary power in America,

1773] Benjamin Franklin 169

that only a small fraction among us were discontented
with the late measures. If that unanimity can be
discovered in all the colonies, it will give much greater
weight to our future remonstrances. I heartily wish,
with you, that some line could be drawn, some bill of
rights established for America, that might secure
peace between the two countries, so necessary for
the prosperity of both. But I think little atten-
tion is like to be afforded by our ministers to that
salutary work, till the breach becomes greater and
more alarming, and then the difficulty or repairing it
will be greater in a tenfold proportion.

You mention the surprise of gentlemen to whom
those letters have been communicated,' at the restric-
tions with which they were accompanied, and which
they suppose render them incapable of answering
any important end. One great reason of forbidding
their publication was an apprehension, that it might
put all the possessors of such correspondence here
upon their guard, and so prevent the obtaining more
of it. And it was imagined that showing the origi-
nals to so many as were named, and to a few such
others as they might think fit, would be sufficient to
establish their authenticity, and to spread through
the province so just an estimation of the writers as
to strip them of all their deluded friends, and demol-
ish effectually their interest and influence. The
letters might be shown even to some of the gov-
ernor's and lieutenant-governor's partisans, and
spoken of to everybody; for there was no restraint
proposed to talking of them, but only to copying.

^ Governor Hutchinson's letters.

I70 The Works of [1773

However, the terms given with them could only be
those with which they were received.

The great defect here is, in all sorts of people, a
want of attention to what passes in such remote
countries as America; an unwillingness to read any
thing about them if it appears a little lengthy, and a
disposition to postpone the consideration even of the
things they know they must at last consider, that so
they may have time for what more immediately con-
cerns them, and with all, enjoy their amusements,
and be undisturbed in the universal dissipation. In
other respects, though some of the great regard us
with a jealous eye, and some are angry with us, the
majority of the nation rather wish us well, and have
no desire to infringe our liberties. And many console
themselves under the apprehension of declining
liberty here, that they or their posterity shall be able
to find her safe and vigorous in America. With
sincere and great esteem, I am, etc.,

B. Franklin.

DXXII

TO MRS. JANE MECOM

London, 7 July, 1773-

Dear Sister: — I believe it is long since I have
written any letters to you. I hope you will excuse it.
I am oppressed with too much writing, and am apt
to postpone when I presimie upon some indulgence.

I received duly yours of January 19th, April 20th,
May 5th, and May 15th.

1773] Benjamin Franklin 171

Otir relations, Jenkins and Paddock, came to see
me. They seem to be clever, sensible men.

Is there not a little affectation in your apology for
the incorrectness of your writing? Perhaps it is
rather fishing for commendation. You write better,
in my opinion, than most American women. Here
indeed the ladies write generally with more elegance
than the gentlemen.

By Capt. Hatch went a trunk containing the goods
you wrote for. I hope they will come safe to hand
and please. Mrs. Stevenson undertook the purchas-
ing them with great readiness and pleasure. Teas-
dale, whom you mention as selling cheap, is broke
and gone. Perhaps he sold too cheap. But she did
her best.

I congratulate you on the marriage of your daugh-
ter. My love to them. I am obliged to good Dr.
Cooper for his prayers.

Your shortness of breath might perhaps be relieved
by eating honey with your bread instead of butter, at
breakfast.

Young Hubbard seems a sensible boy, and fit, I
should think, for a better business than the sea. I
am concerned to hear of the illness of his good
mother.

If Brother John had paid that bond, there was no
occasion to recall it for you to pay it ; for I suppose
he might have had effects of our father's to pay it
with. I never heard how it was managed.

Mrs. Stevenson presents her respects, and I am
ever,

Your affectionate brother, B. Franklin.

172 The Works of [1773

DXXIII

TO MR. SAMUEL FRANKLIN

London, 7 July, 1773.

Loving Cousin: — I received your kind letter of
November 6th, and was glad to hear of the welfare of
yourself and family, which I hope continues.

Sally Franklin is lately married to Mr. James
Pearce, a substantial young farmer at Ewell, about
twelve miles from London, a very sober, industrious
man, and I think it likely to prove a good match.

I would not have you be discouraged at a little dul-
ness of business, which is only occasional. A close
attention to your shop and industrious application to
business will always secure more than an equal share,
because every competitor will not have those quali-
ties. Some of them, therefore, must give way to you,
and the constant growth of the country will increase
the trade of all that steadily stand ready for it. I
send you a little old piece of mine, which more par-
ticularly explains this sentiment.

I am ever your affectionate kinsman,

B. Franklin.

DXXIV

TO JONATHAN WILLIAMS

London, 7 July, 1773.

Dear Cousin : — In looking over your letters I find
in that of November 12th mention of a prize of £20
which you have drawn. It never came into my

1773] Benjamin Franklin 173

hands, and I cannot find that Smith, Wright, & Gray
know any thing of it. If I knew the No. of the
ticket I could inquire farther.

I am much obliged by your care in Hall's affair,
and glad you have recovered so much of that debt
and are likely to get the rest. I hope it will be of
service to my dear sister. The goods for her were
sent per Capt. Hatch, in a trunk consigned to you.

I wish you success in 3'our new plan of business,
and shall certainly embrace every opportxmity I may
have of promoting it.

Upon your recommendation I went to see the
black poetess and offered her any services I could do
her. Before I left the house I understood her master
was there, and had sent her to me, but did not come
into the room himself, and I thought was not pleased
with the visit. I should perhaps have inquired first
for him ; but I had heard nothing of him, and I have
heard nothing since of her.

My love to Cousin Grace and your children.

I am, yours affectionately,

B. Franklin.

DXXV

TO WILLIAM FRANKLIN

London, 14 July, 1773.

Dear Son : — I am glad to find by yours of May 4th
that you have been able to assist Josiah Davenport
a little; but vexed that he and you should think of
putting me upon a solicitation which it is impossible

174 The Works of [1773

for me to engage in. I am not upon terms with
Lord North to ask any such favor from him. Dis-
pleased with something he said relating to America,
I have never been at his levees since the first. Per-
haps he has taken that amiss. For the last week we
met occasionally at Lord le Despencer's in our re-
turn from Oxford, where I had been to attend the
solemnity of his installation, and he seemed studi-
ously to avoid speaking to me. I ought to be
ashamed to say that on such occasions I feel myself
to be as proud as anybody. His lady indeed was
more gracious. She came and sat down by me on
the same sofa, and condescended to enter into a con-
versation with me agreeably enough, as if to make
some amends. Their son and daughter were with
them. They stayed all night, so that we dined,
supped, and breakfasted together, without exchang-
ing three sentences. But had he ever so great a
regard for me I could not ask that office, trifling as it
is, for any relation of mine. And detesting as I do
the whole system of American customs, believing
they will one day bring on a breach through the in-
discretions and insolence of those concerned in the
collection, I should never wish to see one so near to
me in that business. If you think him capable of
acting as deputy secretary, I imagine you might
easily obtain that for him of Mr. Morgan.

He has lately been with me, is always very com-
plaisant, and, understanding I was about returning
to America, requested my interest to obtain for him
the agency for your province. His friend, Sir Watkin
Lewes, who was formerly candidate for the same

17731 Benjamin Franklin i75

great place, is now high sheriff of London, and in the
way of being Lord Mayor. The new sheriffs-elect
are (could you think it?) both Americans, viz., Mr.
Sayre, the New Yorker, and Mr. William Lee,
brother to Dr. Lee. I am glad you stand so well
with Lord Dartmouth. I am likewise well with him,
but he never spoke to me of augmenting your salary.
He is truly a good man, and wishes sincerely a good
imderstanding with the colonies, but does not seem
to have strength equal to his wishes. Between you
and me, the late measures have been, I suspect, very
much the king's own, and he has in some cases a
great share of what his friends call firmness. Yet,
by some painstaking and proper management, the
wrong impressions he has received may be removed,
which is perhaps the only chance America has for
obtaining soon the redress she aims at. This entirely
to yourself.

And, now we are among great folks, let me tell
you a little of Lord Hillsborough. I went down to
Oxford with and at the instance of Lord le Despen-
cer, who is on all occasions very good to me, and
seems of late very desirous of my company. Mr.
Todd too was there, who has some attachment to
Lord Hillsborough, and, in a walk we were taking,
told me, as a secret, that Lord Hillsborough was
much chagrined at being out of place, and could never
forgive me for writing that pamphlet against his re-
port about the Ohio. "I assured him," says Mr.
Todd, "that I knew you did not write it; and the
consequence is, that he thinks I know the contrary,
and wanted to impose upon him in your favor ; and

176 The Works of [1773

so I find he is now displeased with me, and for no
other cause in the world." His friend Bamber
Gascoign, too, says, that they well know it was writ-
ten by Dr. Franklin, who was one of the most mis-
chievous men in England.

That same day Lord Hillsborough called upon
Lord le Despencer, whose chamber and mine were
together in Queen's College. I was in the inner
room shifting, and heard his voice, but did not see
him, as he went down stairs immediately with Lord
le Despencer, who mentioning that I was above, he
returned directly and came to me in the pleasantest
manner imaginable. " Dr. Franklin, ' ' said he, " I did
not know till this minute that you were here, and I
am come back to make you my how. I am glad to
see you at Oxford, and that you look so well," etc.
In return for this extravagance, I complimented him
on his son's performance in the theatre, though in-
deed it was but indifferent, so that account was set-
tled. For as people say, when they are angry. If he
strikes me, I 'II strike him again; I think sometimes
it may be right to say, // he -flatters me, I 'II flatter
him again. This is lex talionis, returning offences
in kind. His son, however (Lord Fairford), is a
valuable young man, and his daughters. Ladies Mary
and Charlotte, most amiable young women. My
quarrel is only with him, who, of all the men I ever
met with, is surely the most unequal in his treatment
of people, the most insincere, and the most wrong-
headed; witness, besides his various behavior to me,
his duplicity in encouraging us to ask for more land,
ask for enough to make a province (when we at first

1773] Benjamin Franklin 177

asked only for two millions five hundred thousand
acres), were his words, pretending to befriend our
application, then doing every thing to defeat it ; and
reconciling the first to the last, by saying to a friend
that he meant to defeat it from the beginning ; and
that his putting us upon asking so much was with
that very view, supposing it too much to be granted.
Thus, by the way, his mortification becomes double.
He has served us by the very means he meant to
destroy us, and tripped up his own heels into the
bargain. Your affectionate father,

B. Franklin.

DXXVI

TO BENJAMIN RUSH

London, 14 July, 1773.

Dear Sir: — I received your favor of May ist, with
the pamphlet, for which I am much obliged to you.
It is well written. I hope that in time the endeav-
ors of the friends to liberty and humanity will get
the better of a practice that has so long disgraced
our nation and religion.

A few days after I received your packet for M.
Dubourg, I had an opportunity of forwarding it to
him per M. Poissonniere, physician of Paris, who
kindly under took to deliver it. M. Dubourg has
been translating my book into French. It is nearly
printed, and he tells me he purposes a copy for you.

I shall communicate your judicious remark, relat-
ing to the septic quality of the air transpired by

VOL. VI.— 12.

178 The Works of [1773

patients in putrid diseases, to my friend Dr. Priestley.
I hope that after having discovered the benefit of
fresh cool air applied to the sick, people will be-
gin to suspect that possibly it may do no harm to the
well. I have not seen Dr. CuUen's book, but am
glad to hear that he speaks of catarrhs or colds by
contagion. I have long been satisfied from observa-
tion, that besides the general colds now termed
influenzas (which may possibly spread by contagion,
as well as by a particular quality of the air), people
often catch cold from one another when shut up to-
gether in close rooms, coaches, etc., and when sitting
near and conversing so as to breathe in each other's
transpiration; the disorder being in a certain state.
I think, too, that it is the frouzy, corrupt air from
animal substances, and the perspired matter from our
bodies, which being long confined in the beds not
lately used, and clothes not lately worn, and books
long shut up in close rooms, contains that kind of
putridity which occasions the colds observed upon
sleeping in, wearing, and turning over such bed-
clothes, or books, and not their coldness or damp-
ness. From these causes, but more from too full
living with too little exercise, proceed, in my opinion,
most of the disorders which for about one hundred
and fifty years past the English have called colds.

As to Dr. Cullen's cold or catarrh a f rigor e, I
question whether such an one ever existed. Travel-
ling in our severe winters, I have suffered cold some-
times to an extremity only short of freezing, but this
did not make me catch cold. And, for moisture, I
have been in the river every evening two or three

1773] Benjamin Franklin 179

hours for a fortnight together, when one would sup-
pose I might imbibe enough of it to take cold if
humidity could give it; but no such effect ever fol-
lowed. Boys never get cold by swimming. Nor are
people at sea, or who live at Bermudas, or St. Helena,
small islands, where the air must be ever moist from
the dashing and breaking of waves against their
rocks on all sides, more subject to colds than those
who inhabit part of a continent where the air is
driest. Dampness may indeed assist in producing
putridity and those miasmata which infect us with
the disorder we call a cold; but of itself can never
by a little addition of moisture hurt a body filled with
watery fluids from head to foot.'

I Without proposing to meddle with a question so strictly profes-
sional as this, I think it not amiss to cite here in confirmation of the
Doctor's heretical theories about colds, the following statement made
by the late Dr. John H. Griscom, Superintendent of the Commissioners
of Emigration of New York, in a commtmication addressed to a Special
Committee of the United States Senate, dated the 14th January, 1854,
and during the unprecedented virulence of "ship fever" on emigrant
ships arriving at the port of New York at that period:

"In the month of August, 1837, a number of ships with emigrant
passengers arrived at South Amboy from Liverpool and other ports, on
some of which ship fever prevailed. There was no hospital or other
accommodations in the town in which the sick could be placed, and no
person would admit them into private dwellings, fearing infection;
at the same time they could not be left on board the ships.

"An arrangement was made to land the sick passengers, and place
them in an open wood, adjacent to a large spring of water, about a
mile and a half from town. Rough shanties, floored with boards and
covered with sails, were erected, and thirty-six patients were landed in
boats as near the spring as possible, and carried in wagons to the
encampment (as it was called) under the influence of a hot August
sun. Of the thirty-six twelve were insensible, in the last stage of
fever, and not expected to live twenty-four hours. The day after
landing there was a heavy rain, and the shanties affording no protec-
tion with their sail roofs, the sick were found the next morning wet,
and their bedding, such as it was, drenched with the rain. It was

i8o The Works of [1773

With great esteem, and sincere wishes for your
welfare, I am, sir,

Your most obedient, humble servant,

B. Franklin.

DXXVII

TO ANTHONY BENEZET

London, 14 July, 1773.

Dear Friend : — I received your favor of April 24th
with the pamphlets, for which I thank you. I am

replaced with such articles as could be collected from the charity of
the inhabitants. Their number was increased by new patients to
eighty-two in all. On board the ship, which was cleansed after land-
ing the passengers, four of the crew were taken with ship fever, and
two of them died. Some of the nurses at the encampment were taken
sick, but recovered. Of the whole ntunber of eighty-two passengers
taken from the ship not one died.

". . . The shanties spoken of were two in number, thirty feet
long, twenty feet wide, boarded on three sides four feet up, with old
sails stretched over them. The twelve who were removed from the
ship in a state of insensibility were apparently in so helpless a condi-
tion that the overseer, who was a carpenter, observed, 'well. Doctor, I
think I shall have some boxes to make before many hours.' The
night after their arrival at the encampment,' says Dr. Smith, 'we had
a violent thunder-gust, accompanied by torrents of rain. On visiting
them the following morning, the clothes of all were saturated with
water ; in other words they had had a thorough ablution. This doubt-
less was a most fortunate circumstance. . . . The four sailors who
sickened after the arrival of the vessel (the Phoebe) were removed to
the room of an ordinary dwelling house. The medical treatment in
their case was precisely similar, yet two of them died, and the others
suffered from carbuncles while convalescing. ' The Doctor adds : ' My
opinion is that had the eighty-two treated at the encampment been
placed in a common hospital, many of them would also have fallen
victims. I do not attribute their recovery so much to the remedies
administered as to the circumstances in which they were placed; in
other words, a good washing to begin with and an abimdance of fresh
vair.' " — Editor.

1773] Benjamin Franklin i8i

glad to hear that such humane sentiments prevail so
much more generally than heretofore; that there is
reason to hope our colonies may in time get clear of a
practice that disgraces them, and, without producing
any equivalent benefit, is dangerous to their very
existence.

I hope ere long to have the pleasure of seeing you,
and conversing with you more fully on that and other
subjects than I can now do by writing.

In the meantime, believe me ever, dear friend,
Yours most affectionately,

B. Franklin.

DXXVIII

TO MR. FOXCROFT

London, 14 July, 1773.

Dear Friend : — I received yours of June 7th, and
am glad to find by it that you are safely returned
from your Virginia journey, having settled your af-
fairs there to satisfaction, and that you found your
family well at New York.

I feel for you in the fall you had out of your chair.
I have had three of those squelchers in different jour-
neys, and never desire a fourth.

I do not think it was without reason that you con-
tinued so long one of St. Thomas' disciples; for
there was always some cause for doubting. Some
people always ride before the horse's head. The
draft of the patent is at length got into the hands of

i82 The Works of [1773

the Attorney-General, who must approve the form
before it passes the seals, so one would think much
more time can scarce be required to complete the
business; but 't is good not to be too sanguine.
He may go into the coimtry, and the Privy Coimcil-
lors likewise, and some months elapse before they
get together again; therefore, if you have any pa-
tience, use it.

I suppose Mr. Finlay will be some time at Quebec
in settling his affairs. By the next packet you will
receive a draft of instructions for him.

In mine of December 2d, upon the post-office ac-
counts to April, 1772, I took notice to you that I ob-
served I had full credit for my salary ; but no charge
appeared against me for money paid on my account
to Mrs. Franklin from the Philadelphia office. I sup-
posed the thirty pounds currency per month was
regularly paid, because I had had no complaint from
her for want of money, and I expected to find the
charge in the accounts of the last year — that is, to
April 3,1773; but nothing of it appearing there, I am
at a loss to understand it, and you take no notice of
my observation above mentioned. The great bal-
ance due from that office begins to be remarked here,
and I should have thought the officer would, for his
own sake, not have neglected to lessen it by showing
what he had paid on my accoimt. Pray, my dear
friend, explain this to me.

I find by yours to Mr. Todd that you expected soon
another little one. God send my daughter a good
time, and you a good boy. Mrs. Stevenson is pleased
with your remembrance of her, and joins with Mr.

1773] Benjamin Franklin 183

and Mrs. Hewson and myself in best wishes for you
and yours.

I am ever yours affectionately,

B. Franklin.

DXXIX

TO SAMUEL DANFORTH

London, 25 July, 1773.

Dear Sir: — It gave me great pleasure to receive
so cheerful an epistle from a friend of half a century's
standing, and to see him commencing life anew in so
valuable a son. I hope the young gentleman's patent
will be as beneficial to him, as his invention must be
to the public.

I see by the papers that you continue to afford her
your services, which makes me almost ashamed of
my resolutions for retirement. But this exile, though
an honorable one, is become grievous to me, in so
long a separation from my family, friends, and coun-
try, all which you happily enjoy; and long may you
continue to enjoy them. I hope for the great pleas-
ure of once more seeing and conversing with you;
and, though living on in one's children, as we both
may do, is a good thing, I cannot but fancy it might
be better to continue living ourselves at the same
time. I rejoice, therefore, in your kind intentions
of including me in the benefits of that inestimable
stone, which, ciu-ing all diseases (even old age itself),
will enable us to see the futiu-e glorious state of our
America, enjoying in full security her own liberties.

1 84 The Works of [1773

and offering in her bosom a participation of them to
all the oppressed of other nations. I anticipate the
jolly conversation we and twenty more of our friends
may have a hundred years hence on this subject, over
that well-replenished bowl at Cambridge Commence-
ment. I am, dear sir, for an age to come, and for
ever, with sincere esteem and respect, your most obe-
dient, humble servant,

B. Franklin.

DXXX

TO JOHN WINTHROP

London, 25 July, 1773.

Dear Sir: — I am glad to see that you are elected
into the Council, and are about to take part in our
public affairs. Your abilities, integrity, and sober
attachment to the liberties of our country, will be of
great use in this tempestuous time in conducting our
little bark into safe harbor. By the Boston news-
papers, there seems to be among us some violent
spirits, who are for an immediate rupture. But I
trust the general prudence of our country will see
that by otir growing strength we advance fast to a
situation in which our claims must be allowed ; that
by a prematiu-e struggle we may be crippled, and
kept down another age; that, as between friends,
every affront is not worth a duel, between nations
every injury not worth a war, so between the
governed and governing every mistake in govern-

1773] Benjamin Franklin 185

ment, every encroachment on right, is not worth
a rebelHon.

It is, in my opinion, sufficient for the present that
we hold them forth on all occasions, not giving up
any of them, using at the same time every means to
make them generally imderstood and valued by the
people; cultivating a harmony among the colonies,
that their union in the same sentiments may give
them greater weight ; remembering withall, that this
Protestant country (our mother, though lately an
imkind one) is worth preserving, and that her weight
in the scale of Europe, and her safety in a great de-
gree, may depend on our union with her. Thus
conducting, I am confident we may, in a few years,
obtain every allowance of, and every security for,
our inestimable privileges, that we can wish or desire.
With great and sincere esteem, I am, etc.

B. Franklin.

DXXXI

TO SAMUEL COOPER

London, 25 July, 1773.

Dear Sir: — I wrote to you on the 7th instant
pretty fully, and am since favored with yours of June
14th. I am much pleased with the proposal of the
Virginia Assembly, and the respectful manner in
which it has been received by ours. I think it likely
to produce very salutary effects.^

' The Virginia resolves for appointing a Committee of Correspond-
ence arrived in Boston shortly before the assembling of the legislatiire.

1 86 The Works of [1773

I am glad to know your opinion, that those letters
came seasonably, and may be of public utility. I ac-
companied them with no restriction relating to my-
self. My duty to the province, as their agent, I
thought required the communication of them as far
as I cotild. I was sensible I should make enemies
there, and perhaps I might offend government here ;
but those apprehensions I disregarded. I did not
expect that my sending them could be kept a secret ;
but since it is such hitherto, I now wish it may
continue so, because the publication of the letters,
contrary to my engagement, has changed the circum-
stances. If they serve to diminish the influence and
demolish the power of the parties, whose correspond-
ence has been, and probably would have continued
to be, so mischievous to the interest and rights of
the province, I shall on that account be more easy
under any inconveniences I may suffer, either here or
there ; and shall bear, as well as I can, the imputation
of not having taken sufficient care to insure the per-
formance of my promise.

I think government can hardly expect to draw any
future service from such instruments, and one would
suppose they must soon be dismissed. We shall
see.

I hope to be favored with the continuance of your
correspondence and intelligence while I stay here;
it is highly useful to me, and will be, as it always has
been, pleasing everywhere. I am ever, dear sir, etc.,

B. Franklin.

Its first business was to accede to the proposal of Virginia, and ap-
point a Committee of Correspondence.

1773] Benjamin Franklin 187

DXXXII

TO THOMAS GUSHING

London, 25 July, 1773.

Sir: — I am favored with yours of June 14th and
1 6th, containing some copies of the resolves of the
committee upon the letters . ' I see by your account of
the transaction, that you could not well prevent what
was done. As to the report of other copies being
come from England, I know that could not be. It
was an expedient to disengage the House. I hope
the possession of the originals, and the proceedings
upon them, will be attended with salutary effects to
the province, and then I shall be well pleased.

I observe that you mention that no person besides
Dr. Cooper and one of the committee knew they
came from me. I did not accompany them with any
request of being myself concealed; for, believing
what I did to be in the way of my duty as agent,
though I had no doubt of its giving offence, not only
to the parties exposed, but to administration here, I
was regardless of the consequences. However, since
the letters themselves are now copied and printed,
contrary to the promise I made, I am glad my name
has not been heard on the occasion; and, as I do not
see it could be of any use to the public, I now wish
it may continue imknown ; though I hardly expect it.
As to yours, you may rely on m}^ never mentioning
it, except that I may be obliged to show your letter in
my own vindication to the person only, who might

^ Resolves concerning Hutchinson's letters.

i88 The Works of [1773

otherwise think he had reason to blame me for breach
of engagement. It must surely be seen here that,
after such a detection of their duplicity, in pretending
a regard and affection to the province, while they
were undermining its privileges, it is impossible for
the crown to make any good use of their services, and
that it can never be for its interest to employ servants
who are under such universal odium. The conse-
quence, one would think, should be their removal.
But perhaps it may be to titles, or to pensions, if your
revenue can pay them. I am, with great esteem, sir,
your most obedient, htimble servant,

B. Franklin.

DXXXIII

TO JOHN WINTHROP

London, 25 July, 1773

Your remark on the passage of Castillioneus will
be read at the Society at their next meeting. I
thank you much for the papers and accounts of dam-
age done by lightning, which you have favored me
with. The conductors begin to be used here. Many
country-seats are provided with them, some churches,
the powder magazines at Purfleet, the queen's house
in the park, etc. ; and M. Le Roy, of the Academy
of Sciences at Paris, has lately given a memoir re-
commending the use of them in that kingdom, which
has been long opposed and obstructed by Abbe Nol-
let. Of the Duke of Tuscany he says: "Ce prince,
qui ne connoit pas de delassement plus agreable des

T7731 Benjamin Franklin 189

soins penibles du gouvemement, que I'^tude de la
physique, a ordonne, I'annee derniere, qu'on etablit
de ces barres au-dessus de tous les magasins k poudre
de ses etats; on dit que la republique de Venise a
donn^ les memes ordres."

B. Franklin.

DXXXIV

TO WILLIAM FRANKLIN
West Wycomb, Lord le Despencer's, 3 August, 1773.

Dear Son: — I am come hither to spend a few
days and breathe a little fresh air.

Nothing material has occurred since mine per
Sutton, except the final hearing at the cockpit relat-
ing to Governor Wentworth, against whose conduct
the Board of Trade had reported, and the hearing
was at the instance of his friends against the report.
Their lordships have not yet given their determina-
tion, but it is thought he is in no danger.

As to the Ohio affair, it is scarcely likely to be got
through this summer, for reasons I have already
given you.

Our paper-money account not being yet considered
here, together with the Massachusetts affairs, will, I
believe, keep me another winter in England.

Temple is just returned to school from his summer
vacation. He always behaves himself so well as to
increase my affection for him every time he is with
me.

I go

The Works of [1773

As you are likely to have a considerable landed
property, it would be well to make your will, if you
have not already done it, and secure that property to
him. Our friend Galloway will advise you in the
matter. Whatever he may come to possess, I am
persuaded he will make a good use of it, if his temper
and understanding do not strangely alter.

I am in this house as much at my ease as if it was
my own; and the gardens are a paradise. But a
pleasanter thing is the kind countenance, the face-
tious and very intelligent conversation of mine host,
who having been for many years engaged in public
affairs, seen all parts of Europe, and kept the best
company in the world, is himself the best existing.

I wear the buttons (for which I thank you) on
a suit of light gray which matches them. All the
connoisseurs in natural productions are puzzled with
them, not knowing any thing similar.

With love to Betsey, I am ever your affectionate

father,

B. Franklin.

DXXXV

TO THOMAS GUSHING

London, 24 August, 1773.

Sir: — I received duly your several favors of June
25th, 26th, and 30th, with the papers enclosed. My
Lord Dartmouth being at his country-seat in Staf-
fordshire, I transmitted to him the address for the

1773] Benjamin Franklin 19^

removal of the governor and lieutenant-governor,
and Mr. BoUan and I jointly transmitted the letter to
his Lordship from both Houses. I delivered to Mr.
BoUan one set of the authenticated copies of the let-
ters, and we shall cooperate in the business we are
charged with.

I am told that the governor has requested leave to
come home; that some great persons about the
court do not think the letters, now they have seen
them, a sufficient foundation for the resolves; that
therefore it is not likely he will be removed, but
suffered to resign, and that some provision will
be made for him here. But nothing, I apprehend,
is likely to be done soon, as most of the great officers
of state, who compose the Privy Council, are in
the country, and likely to continue till the Parlia-
ment meets, and perhaps the above may be chiefly
conjectured.

I have informed Mr. Lee that, in case there should
be a hearing, I was directed to engage him as counsel
for the province; that, though I had received no
money, I would advance what might be necessary;
those hearings by counsel being expensive. I pur-
pose writing to you again by the packet, and am,
with the greatest respect, sir, etc.,

B. Franklin.

P. S. — No determination is yet pubhc on the case
of Mr. Lewis against Governor Wentworth, which
has been a very costly hearing to both sides.

192 The Works of [1773

DXXXVI

TO WILLIAM FRANKLIN

London, i September, 1773.

Dear Son: — I have now before me yours of July
5th and 6th. The August packet is not yet arrived.
Dr. Cooper of New York's opinion of the author of
the sermon, however honorable to me, is injurious to
the good bishop; and therefore I must say, in justice
and truth, that I knew nothing of his intention to
preach on the subject, and saw not a word of the
sermon till it was printed. Possibly some preceding
conversation between us may have turned his
thoughts that way; but, if so, that is all.

I think the resolutions of the New England town-
ships must have the effect they seem intended for,
viz., to show that the discontents were really general,
and their sentiments concerning their rights unani-
mous, and not the faction of a few demagogues, as
their governors used to represent them here; and
therefore not useless, though they should not as yet
induce government to acknowledge their claims ; that
people may probably think it sufficient for the pres-
ent to assert and hold forth their rights, secure that
sooner or later they must be admitted and acknow-
ledged. The declaratory law here had too its use,
viz., to prevent or lessen at least a clamor against the
ministry that repealed the Stamp Act, as if they had
given up the right of this country to govern America.
Other use indeed it could have none ; and I remember
Lord Mansfield told the Lords, when upon that bill,
that it was nugatory. To be sure, in a dispute be-

1773] Benjamin Franklin 193

tween two parties about rights, the declaration of one
party can never be supposed to bind the other.

It is said there is now a project on foot to form a
union with Ireland, and that Lord Harcourt is to
propose it at the next meeting of the Irish Parlia-
ment. The eastern side of Ireland are averse to it;
supposing that when Dublin is no longer the seat of
their government it will decline, the harbor being but
indifferent, and that the western and southern ports
will rise and flourish on its ruins, being good in them-
selves, and much better situated for commerce. For
these same reasons, the western and southern people
are inclined to the measure, and it is thought it may-
be carried. But these are difficult affairs and usually
take longer time than the projectors imagine. Mr.
Crowley, the author of several proposals for imiting
the colonies with the mother coimtry, and who rtms
about much among the ministers, tells me the union
of Ireland is only the first step towards a general
union. He is for having it done by the Parliament
of England, without consulting the colonies, and he
will warrant, he says, that if the terms proposed are
equitable, they will all come in one after the other.
He seems rather a little cracked upon the subject.

It is said here that the famous Boston letters ^ were
sent chiefly, if not all, to the late Mr. Whately. They
fell into my hands, and I thought it my duty to give
some principal people there a sight of them, very much
with this view, that, when they saw the measures
they complained of took their rise in a great degree
from the representations and recommendations

^ Governor Hutchinson's letters.

VOL. VI.— 13.

194 The Works of [1773

of their own countrymen, their resentment against
Britain on account of those measures might abate,
as mine had done, and a reconciUation be more
easily obtained. In Boston they concealed who sent
them, the better to conceal who received and com-
municated them. And perhaps it is as well that it
should continue a secret. Being of that country my-
self, I think those letters more heinous than you seem
to think them; but you had not read them all, nor
perhaps the Council's remarks on them. I have
written to decline their agency, on accoimt of my
return to America. Dr. Lee succeeds me. I only
keep it while I stay, which perhaps will be another
winter.

I grieve to hear of the death of my good old friend,
Dr. Evans. I have lost so many since I left America,
that I begin to fear that I shall find myself a stranger
among strangers when I return. If so, I must come
again to my friends in England. I am ever your
affectionate father,

B. Franklin.

DXXXVII

TO MRS. DEBORAH FRANKLIN

London, i September, 1773.

My Dear Child: — . . . There is a new
translation of my book at Paris and printed there,
being the third edition in French. A fifth edition is
now preparing here. To the French edition they
liave prefixed a print of me, which, though a copy of

1773] Benjamin Franklin 195

that by Chamberlin, has got so French a countenance,
that you would take me for one of that Hvely nation.
I think you do not mind such things or I would send
you one. I am ever, my dear Debby,

Your affectionate husband,

B. Franklin.

DXXXVIII

AN EDICT BY THE KING OF PRUSSIA '

Dantzig, 5 September, 1773.

We have long wondered here at the supineness of
the English nation, under the Prussian impositions
upon its trade entering our port. We did not, till
lately, know the claims, ancient and modern, that
hang over that nation ; and therefore could not sus-
pect that it might submit to those impositions from
a sense of duty or from principles of equity. The
following Edict, just made public, may, if serious,
throw some light upon this matter.

[" Frederic, by the grace of God, King of Prussia,
etc., etc., etc., to all present and to come (<i tous pr^-
sens et h venir), health. The peace now enjoyed
throughout our dominions, having afforded us leisure
to apply ourselves to the regulation of commerce, the
improvement of our finances, and at the same time
the easing our domestic subjects in their taxes; for
these causes, and other good considerations us there-
unto moving, we hereby make known that, after
having deliberated these affairs in our council, pres-

' See letter to his son William, infra, p. 222.

196 The Works of [1773

ent our dear brothers, and other great officers of the
state, members of the same; we, of our certain
knowledge, full power, and authority royal, have
made and issued this present Edict, viz. :

" Whereas it is well known to all the world, that
the first German settlements made in the island of
Britain were by colonies of people subject to our
renowned ducal ancestors, and drawn from their do-
minions, under the conduct of Hengist, Horsa, Hella,
Uffa, Cerdicus, Ida, and others; and that the said
colonies have flourished under the protection of our
august house for ages past ; have never been emanci-
pated therefrom ; and yet have hitherto yielded little
profit to the same; and whereas we ourself have in
the last war fought for and defended the said colonies
against the power of France, and thereby enabled
them to make conquests for the said power in Amer-
ica, for which we have not yet received adequate
compensation; and whereas it is just and expedient
that a revenue should be raised from the said colo-
nies in Britain, towards our indemnification; and
that those who are descendants of our ancient sub-
jects, and thence still owe us due obedience, should
contribute to the replenishing of our royal coffers (as
they must have done, had their ancestors remained
in the territories now to us appertaining) ; we do
therefore hereby ordain and command that, from
and after the date of these presents, there shall be
levied and paid to our officers of the customs, on
all goods, wares, and merchandises, and on all grain
and other produce of the earth, exported from the
said island of Britain, and on all goods of whatever

1773] Benjamin Franklin 197

kind imported into the same, a duty of four and a
half per cent, ad valorem, for the use of us and our
successors. And, that the said duty may more effect-
ually be collected, we do hereby ordain that all ships
or vessels bound from Great Britain to any other
part of the world, or from any other part of the world
to Great Britain, shall in their respective voyages
touch at our port of Koningsberg, there to be un-
laden, searched, and charged with the said duties.

"And whereas there hath been from time to time
discovered in the said island of Great Britain, by our
colonists there, many mines or beds of iron-stone;
and sundry subjects of our ancient dominion, skilful
in converting the said stone into metal, have in time
past transported themselves thither, carrying with
them and communicating that art; and the inhabi-
tants of the said island, presuming that they had a
natural right to make the best use they could of the
natural productions of their country for their own
benefit, have not only built furnaces for smelting the
said stone into iron, but have erected plating-forges,
slitting-mills, and steel-furnaces, for the more conven-
ient manufacturing of the same ; thereby endangering
a diminution of the said manufacture in our ancient
dominion; we do therefore hereby further ordain
that, from and after the date hereof, no mill or other
engine for slitting or rolling of iron, or any plating-
forge to work with a tilt-hammer, or any furnace for
making steel, shall be erected or continued in the said
island of great Britain. And the lord-lieutenant of
every county in the said island is hereby commanded,
on information of any such erection within his coimty,

198 The Works of [1773

to order, and by force to cause, the same to be abated
and destroyed ; as he shall answer the neglect thereof
to us at his peril. But we are nevertheless graciously
pleased to permit the inhabitants of the said island to
transport their iron into Prussia, there to be manu-
factured, and to them rettimed; they paying our
Prussian subjects for the workmanship, with all the
costs of commission, freight, and risk, coming and
returning ; any thing herein contained to the contrary
notwithstanding .

"We do not, however, think fit to extend this our
indulgence to the article of wool; but, meaning to en-
courage, not only the manufacturing of woollen cloth,
but also the raising of wool, in our ancient dominions,
and to prevent both, as much as may be, in our said
island, we do hereby absolutely forbid the transporta-
tion of wool from thence, even to the mother country,
Prussia ; and, that those islanders may be further and
more effectually restrained in making any advantage
of their own wool in the way of manufacture, we
command that none shall be carried out of one
county into another; nor shall any worsted, bay, or
woollen yarn, cloth, says, bays, kerseys, serges,
frizes, druggets, cloth-serges, shalloons, or any other
drapery stuffs, or woollen manufactures whatsoever,
made up or mixed with wool in any of the said coun-
ties, be carried into any other county, or be water-
borne even across the smallest river or creek, on
penalty of forfeiture of the same, together with the
boats, carriages, horses, etc., that shall be employed
in removing them. Nevertheless, our loving subjects
there are hereby permitted (if they think proper) to

1773] Benjamin Franklin 199

use all their wool as manure for the improvement of
their lands.

" And whereas the art and mystery of making hats
hath arrived at great perfection in Prussia, and the
making of hats by our remoter subjects ought to be
as much as possible restrained; and forasmuch as
the islanders before mentioned, being in possession of
wool, beaver, and other furs, have presumptuously
conceived they had a right to make some advantage
thereof, by manufacturing the same into hats, to the
prejudice of our domestic manufacture ; we do there-
fore hereby strictly command and ordain, that no
hats or felts whatsoever, dyed or undyed, finished or
unfinished, shall be loaded or put into or upon any
vessel, cart, carriage, or horse, to be transported or
conveyed out of one county in the said island into
another county, or to any other place whatsoever,
by any person or persons whatsoever; on pain of
forfeiting the same, with a penalty of five hundred
pounds sterling for every offence. Nor shall any
hat-maker, in any of the said counties, employ more
than two apprentices, on penalty of five pounds
sterling per month; we intending hereby that such
hat-makers, being so restrained, both in the produc-
tion and sale of their commodity, may find no advan-
tage in continuing their business. But, lest the said
islanders should suffer inconveniency by the want
of hats, we are further graciously pleased to per-
mit them to send their beaver furs to Prussia ; and
we also permit hats made thereof to be exported
from Prussia to Britain ; the people thus favored to
pay all costs and charges of manufacturing, interest,

200 The Works of [1773

commission to our merchants, insurance and freight
going and returning, as in the case of iron.

"And, lastly, being willing further to favor our
said colonies in Britain, we do hereby also ordain
and command, that all the thieves, highway and
street robbers, housebreakers, forgerers, murderers,
s — d — tes, and villains of every denomination, who
have forfeited their lives to the law of Prussia, but
whom we, in our great clemency, do not think fit
here to hang, shall be emptied out of our gaols into
the said island of Great Britain, for the better
peopling of that country.

" We flatter ourselves that these our royal regula-
tions and commands will be thought just and reason-
able by our much favored colonists in England; the
said regulations being copied from their statutes of
loth and nth William III. c. 10, 5th George II. c. 22,
23d George II. c. 26, 4th George I. c. 11, and from
other equitable laws made by their Parliaments ; or
from instructions given by their princes; or from
resolutions of both houses, entered into for the good
government of their own colonies in Ireland and
America.

" And all persons in the said island are hereby cau-
tioned not to oppose in any wise the execution of
this our Edict, or any part thereof, such opposition
being high treason; of which all who are suspected
shall be transported in fetters from Britain to
Prussia, there to be tried and executed according to
the Prussian law.

" Such is our pleasure.
"Given at Potsdam, this twenty-fifth day of the

1773] Benjamin Franklin 201

month of August, one thousand seven hundred
and seventy- three, and in the thirty-third year of
our reign.

" By the King in his Council.

" Rechtmaessig, Sec."

Some take this edict to be merely one of the king's
jeux d' esprit; others suppose it serious, and that
he means a quarrel with England ; but all here think
the assertion it concludes with, "that these regula-
tions are copied from acts of the English Parliament
respecting their colonies," a very injurious one; it
being impossible to believe that a people distin-
guished for their love of liberty, a nation so wise,
so liberal in its sentiments, so just and equitable
towards its neighbors, should, from mean and injudi-
cious views of petty immediate profit, treat its own
children in a manner so arbitrary and tyrannical!

DXXXIX

TO THOMAS GUSHING

London, 12 September, 1773.

Sir: — The above is a copy of my last by the
packet. Enclosed is the original letter therein men-
tioned. His Lordship continues in the country, but
is expected, Secretary Pownall tells me, the begin-
ning of next month.

To avoid repealing the American tea duty, and
yet find a vent for tea, a project is executing to send

202 The Works of [1773

it from hence on account of the East India Company,
to be sold in America, agreeable to a late act, em-
powering the Lords of the Treasury to grant licenses
to the company to export tea thither, under certain
restrictions, duty free. Some friends of govern-
ment, as they are called, in Boston, New York,
Philadelphia, etc., are to be favored with the com-
mission, who undertake, by their interest, to carry
the measure through in the colonies. How the other
merchants, thus excluded from the tea trade, will
like this, I cannot foresee. Their agreeement, if I re-
member right, was not to import tea till the duty shall
be repealed. Perhaps they will think themselves
still obliged by that agreement, notwithstanding
this temporary expedient; which is only to intro-
duce the tea for the present, and may be dropped
next year, and the duty again required, the granting
or refusing such license from time to time remaining
in the power of the Treasury. And it will seem hard,
while their hands are tied, to see the profits of that
article all engrossed by a few particulars.

Enclosed I take the liberty of sending you a small
piece of mine, written to expose, in as striking a
light as I could, to the nation the absurdity of the
measures towards America, and to spur the ministry
if possible to a change of those measures.' Please
to present my duty to the House, and respects to the
committee. I have the honor to be, with much es-
teem, sir, etc.,

B. Franklin.

I The piece was probably the Rules by Which a Great Empire may be
Reduced to a Small One, or An Edict by the King of Prussia. See pages
204 and 195.

1773] Benjamin Franklin 203

DXL

TO JOHN BASKERVILLE

London, 21 September, 1773.

Dear Sir: — I duly received your favor, and some
time after the packet containing the specimens and
your valuable present to Shaftesbury, excellently
printed, for which I hold myself greatly obliged to
you. The specimens I shall distribute by the first
ship among the printers of America, and I hope to
your advantage. I suppose no orders will come un-
accompanied by bills or money, and I would not ad-
vise you to give credit, especially as I do not think
it will be necessary.

The sheet of Chinese paper, from its size, is a great
curiosity. I see the marks of the mould in it. One
side is smooth ; that, I imagine, is the side that was
applied to the smooth side of the kiln on which it
was dried. The little ridges on the other side I take
to be marks of a brush passed over it to press it
against that face in places where it might be kept off
by air between, which would otherwise prevent its
receiving the smoothness. But we will talk further
of this when I have the pleasure of seeing you.

You speak of enlarging your foundery. Here are
all the matrices of Rumford's and James' founderies
to be sold. There seems to be among them some
tolerable Hebrews and Greeks, and some good blacks.
I suppose you know them. Shall I buy any of them
for you? I thank you for your kind invitation.
Perhaps I may embrace it for a few days. My best
respects to good Mrs. Baskerville, and believe me
ever, with great esteem, etc., B. Franklin.

204 The Works of [1773

DXLI

RULES FOR REDUCING A GREAT EMPIRE TO A SMALL

ONE

PRESENTED TO A LATE MINISTER '

An ancient sage valued himself upon this, that,
though he could not fiddle he knew how to make a
great city of a little one. The science that I, a mod-
ern simpleton, am about to communicate, is the very-
reverse.

I address myself to all ministers who have the man-
agement of extensive dominions, which from their
very greatness have become troublesome to govern,
because the multiplicity of their affairs leaves no time
for fiddling.

1. In the first place, gentlemen, you are to con-
sider that a great empire, like a great cake, is most
easily diminished at the edges. Turn your attention,
therefore, first to your remotest provinces; that, as
you get rid of them, the next may follow in order.

2. That the possibility of this separation may
always exist, take special care the provinces are
never incorporated with the mother country; that they
do not enjoy the same common rights, the same
privileges in commerce ; and that they are governed
by severer laws, all of your enacting, without allow-
ing them any share in the choice of the legislators.
By carefully making and preserving such distinctions,
you will (to keep to my simile of the cake) act like a

I The minister here alluded to is supposed to be the Earl of Hills-
borough.

1773] Benjamin Franklin 205

wise gingerbread-baker, who, to facilitate a division,
cuts his dough half through in those places where,
when baked, he would have it broken to pieces.

3. Those remote provinces have perhaps been ac-
quired, purchased, or conquered, at the sole expense
of the settlers, or their ancestors; without the aid of
the mother country. If this should happen to in-
crease her strength, by their growing numbers ready
to join in her wars ; her commerce, by their growing
demand for her manufactures; or her naval power,
by greater employment for her ships and seamen,
they may probably suppose some merit in this, and
that it entitles them to some favor; you are there-
fore to forget it all, or resent it all, as if they had
done you injury. If they happen to be zealous
Whigs, friends of liberty, nurtured in revolution
principles, remember all that to their prejudice, and
contrive to punish it; for such principles, after a re-
volution is thoroughly established, are of no more
use; they are even odious and abominable.

4. However peaceably your colonies have sub-
mitted to your government, shown their affection to
your interests, and patiently borne their grievances,
you are to suppose them always inclined to revolt,
and treat them accordingly. Quarter troops among
them, who by their insolence may provoke the rising
of mobs, and by their bullets and bayonets suppress
them. By this means, like the husband who uses
his wife ill from suspicion, you may in time convert
your suspicions into realities.

5. Remote provinces must have governors and
judges to represent the royal person and execute

2o6 The Works of [1773

everywhere the delegated parts of his office and
authority. You ministers know that much of the
strength of government depends on the opinion
of the people, and much of that opinion on the
choice of rulers placed immediately over them. If
you send them wise and good men for governors,
who study the interests of the colonists, and advance
their prosperity, they will think their king wise and
good, and that he wishes the welfare of his subjects.
If you send them learned and upright men for
judges, they will think him a lover of justice. This
may attach your provinces more to his government.
You are therefore to be careful whom you recom-
mend to those offices. If you can find prodigals
who have ruined their fortunes, broken gamesters or
stockjobbers, these may do well as governors; for
they will probably be rapacious, and provoke the
people by their extortions. Wrangling proctors
and pettifogging lawyers, too, are not amiss; for
they will be forever disputing and quarrelling with
their little Parliaments. If withal they should be
ignorant, wrongheaded, and insolent, so much the
better. Attorney's clerks and Newgate solicitors
will do for chief-justices, especially if they hold
their places during your pleasure; and all will con-
tribute to impress those ideas of your government
that are proper for a people you would wish to
renounce it.

6. To confirm these impressions and strike them
deeper, whenever the injured come to the capital
with complaints of maladministration, oppression, or
injustice, punish such suitors with long delay, enor-

1773] Benjamin Franklin 207

mous expense, and a final judgment in favor of the
oppressor. This will have an admirable effect every
way. The trouble of future complaints will be pre-
vented, and governors and judges will be encouraged
to further acts of oppression and injustice; and
thence the people may become more disaffected, and
at length desperate.

7. When such governors have crammed their cof-
fers and made themselves so odious to the people
that they can no longer remain among them with
safety to their persons, recall and reward them with
pensions. You may make them baronets too, if that
respectable order should not think fit to resent it.
All will contribute to encourage new governors in
the same practice, and make the supreme govern-
ment detestable.

8. If when you are engaged in war, your colonies
should vie in liberal aids of men and money against
the common enemy, upon your simple requisition,
and give far beyond their abilities, reflect that a
penny taken from them by your power is more honor-
able to you than a pound presented by their benevo-
lence; despise therefore their voluntary grants, and
resolve to harass them with novel taxes. They will
probably complain to your Parliament, that they are
taxed by a body in which they have no representative
and that this is contrary to common right. They will
petition for redress. Let the Parliament flout their
claims, reject their petitions, refuse even to suffer the
reading of them, and treat the petitioners with
the utmost contempt. Nothing can have a better
effect in producing the alienation proposed; for.

2o8 The Works of

[1773

though many can forgive injuries, none ever for-
gave contempt.

9. In laying these taxes, never regard the heavy
burdens those remote people already undergo, in de-
fending their own frontiers, supporting their own
provincial government, making new roads, building
bridges, churches, and other public edifices; which
in old countries have been done to your hands by
your ancestors, but which occasion constant calls and
demands on the purses of a new people. Forget the
restraint you lay on their trade for your own benefit,
and the advantage a monoply of this trade gives
your exacting merchants. Think nothing of the
wealth those merchants and your manufacturers ac-
quire by the colony commerce ; their increased ability
thereby to pay taxes at home ; their accumulating, in
the price of their commodities, most of those taxes,
and so levying them from their consuming customers ;
all this, and the employment and support of thou-
sands of your poor by the colonists, you are entirely
to forget. But remember to make your arbitrary tax
more grievous to your provinces, by public declara-
tions importing that your power of taxing them has
no limits; so that, when you take from them with-
out their consent a shilling in the pound, you have
a clear right to the other nineteen. This will
probably weaken every idea of security in their
property, and convince them that under such a
government they have nothing they can call their
own ; which can scarce fail of producing the happiest
consequences !

10. Possibly, indeed, some of them might still com-

1773] Benjamin Franklin 209

fort themselves, and say ; " Though we have no prop-
erty, we have 3^et something left that is valuable ; we
have constitutional liberty, both of person and of con-
science. This King, these Lords, and these Com-
mons, who it seems are too remote from us to know
us, and feel for us, cannot take from us our Habeas
Corpus right, or our right of trial by a jury of our
neighbors ; they cannot deprive us of the exercise of
our religion, alter our ecclesiastical constitution, and
compel us to be Papists, if they please, or Mahome-
tans." To annihilate this comfort, begin by laws
to perplex their commerce with infinite regulations,
impossible to be remembered and observed; ordain
seizures of their property for every failure; take
away the trial of such property by jury, and give it
to arbitrary judges of your own appointing, and of
the lowest characters in the country, whose salaries
and emoluments are to arise out of the duties or
condemnations, and whose appointments are during
pleasure. Then let there be a formal declaration of
both houses, that opposition to your edicts is treason,
and that persons suspected of treason in the pro-
vinces may, according to same obsolete law, be seized
and sent to the metropolis of the empire for trial;
and pass an act, that those there charged with certain
other offences shall be sent away in chains from their
friends and country to be tried in the same manner
for felony. Then erect a new court of Inquisition
among them, accompanied by an armed force, with
instructions to transport all such suspected persons;
to be ruined by the expense, if they bring over evi-
dences to prove their innocence, or be found guilty

VOL. VI. — 14.

2 10 The Works of [1773

and hanged if they cannot afford it. And, lest the
people should think you cannot possibly go any fur-
ther, pass another solemn declaratory act, "that
King, Lords, Commons had, have, and of right ought
to have, full power and authority to make statutes
of sufficient force and validity to bind the unrepre-
sented provinces in all cases whatsoever. This will
include spiritual with temporal, and, taken together,
must operate wonderfully to your purpose; by con-
vincing them that they are at present under a
power something like that spoken of in the Scrip-
tures, which can not only kill their bodies, but damn
their souls to all eternity, by compelling them, if it
pleases, to worship the Devil.

II. To make your taxes more odious, and more
likely to procure resistance, send from the capital a
board of officers to superintend the collection, com-
posed of the most indiscreet, ill-bred, and insolent you
can find. Let these have large salaries out of the
extorted revenue, and live in open, grating luxury
upon the sweat and blood of the industrious ; whom
they are to worry continually with groundless and
expensive prosecutions before the above-mentioned
arbitrary revenue judges ; all at the cost of the party
prosecuted, though acquitted, because the king is
to pay no costs. Let these men, b}^ your order, be
exempted from all the common taxes and burdens
of the province, though they and their property are
protected by its laws. If any revenue officers are
suspected of the least tenderness for the people, dis-
card them. If others are justly complained of, pro-
tect and reward them. If any of the under officers

1773] Benjamin Franklin 211

behave so as to provoke the people to drub them,
promote those to better offices; this will encourage
others to procure for themselves such profitable
drubbings, by multiplying and enlarging such pro-
vocations, and all will work towards the end you
aim at.

12. Another way to make your tax odious, is to
misapply the produce of -it. If it was originally ap-
propriated for the defence of the provinces, and the
better support of government, and the administra-
tion of justice, where it may be necessary, then apply
none of it to that defence ; but bestow it where it is
not necessary, in augmenting salaries or pensions to
every governor who has distinguished himself by his
enmity to the people, and by calumniating them to
their sovereign. This will make them pay it more
unwillingly, and be more apt to quarrel with those
that collect it and those that imposed it; who will
quarrel again with them ; and all shall contribute to
your own purpose, of making them weary of your
government.

13. If the people of any province have been accus-
tomed to support their own governors and judges to
satisfaction, you are to apprehend that such govern-
ors and judges may be thereby influenced to treat
the people kindly and to do them justice. This is
another reason for applying part of that revenue in
larger salaries to such governors and judges, given,
as their commissions are, during your pleasure only;
forbidding them to take any salaries from their pro-
vinces ; that thus the people may no longer hope any
kindness from their governors, or (in crown cases)

212 The Works of [1773

any justice from their judges. And, as the money
thus misappHed in one province is extorted from all,
probably all will resent the misapplication.

14. If the Parliaments of your provinces should
dare to claim rights, or complain of your administra-
tion, order them to be harassed with repeated disso-
lutions. If the same men are continually returned
by new elections, adjourn their meetings to some
country village, where they cannot be accommodated
and there keep them during pleasure; for this, you
know, is your prerogative ; and an excellent one it is,
as you may manage it to promote discontents among
the people, diminish their respect, and increase their
disaffection.

15. Convert the brave, honest officers of your
navy into pimping tide-waiters and colony officers of
the customs. Let those who in time of war fought
gallantly in defence of the commerce of their country-
men, in peace be taught to prey upon it. Let them
learn to be corrupted by great and real smugglers;
but (to show their diligence) scour with armed boats
every bay, harbor, river, creek, cove, or nook
throughout the coast of your colonies; stop and
detain every coaster, every wood-boat, every fisher-
man ; tumble their cargoes and even their ballast in-
side out and upside down; and, if a pennyworth of
pins is found unentered, let the whole be seized and
confiscated. Thus shall the trade of your colonists
suffer more from their friends in time of peace, than it
did from their enemies in war. Then let these boats'
crews land upon every farm in their way, rob their
orchards, steal their pigs and poultry, and insult the

1773] Benjamin Franklin 213

inhabitants. If the injured and exasperated farmers,
unable to procure other justice, should attack the
agg*-essors, drub them, and burn their boats; you are
to call this high treason and rebellion, order fleets and
armies into their country, and threaten to carry all
the offenders three thousand miles to be hanged,
drawn and quartered. Oh, this will work admirably !
16. If you are told of discontents in your colonies,
never believe that they are general, or that you have
given occasion for them; therefore do not think of
applying any remedy, or of changing any offensive
measure. Redress no grievance, lest they should be
encouraged to demand the redress of some other
grievance. Grant no request that is just and reason-
able, lest they should make another that is unreason-
able. Take all your informations of the state of the
colonies from your governors and officers in enmity
with them. Encourage and reward these leasing-
makers; secrete their lying accusations, lest they
should be confuted ; but act upon them as the clearest
evidence; and believe nothing you hear from the
friends of the people. Suppose all their complaints
to be invented and promoted by a few factious dema-
gogues, whom if you could catch and hang, all would
be quiet. Catch and hang a few of them accordingly;
and the blood of the martyrs shall work miracles in
favor of your purpose.'

' One of the American writers affirms : ' ' That there has not been a
single instance in which they have complained, without being rebiiked;
or in which they have been complained against, without being pun-
ished." A fundamental mistake in the minister occasioned this.
Every individual in New England (the peccant country) was held a
coward or a knave, and the disorders which spread abroad there were

214 The Works of [1773

17. If you see rival nations rejoicing at the pros-
pect of yoiir disunion with your provinces, and en-
deavoring to promote it; if they translate, publish,
and applaud all the complaints of your discontented
colonists, at the same time privately stimulating you
to severer measures, let not that offend you. Why
should it, since you all mean the same thing?

18. If any colony should at their own charge erect
a fortress to secure their port against the fleets of a
foreign enemy, get your governor to betray that fort-
ress into your hands. Never think of paying what it
costs the country, for that would look at least like
some regard for justice; but turn it into a citadel to
awe the inhabitants and curb their commerce. If
they should have lodged in such fortress the very
arms they bought and used to aid you in your con-
quests, seize them all; it will provoke, like ingrati-
tude added to robbery. One admirable effect of
these operations will be to discourage every other
colony from erecting such defences, and so their and
your enemies may more easily invade them, to the
great disgrace of your government, and, of course,
the furtherance of your project.

19. Send armies into their country under pretence
of protecting the inhabitants; but, instead of garri-
soning the forts on their frontiers with those troops
to prevent incursions, demolish those forts and order
the troops into the heart of the country, that the
savages may be encouraged to attack the frontiers,

treated as the result of the too great lenity of Great Britain! By the
aid of this short and benevolent rule, judgment was ever wisely pre-
determined; to the shutting out redress on the one hand, and enforcing
every rigor of punishment on the other. — B. V.

1773] Benjamin Franklin 215

and that the troops may be protected by the inhabi-
tants. This will seem to proceed from your ill-will
or your ignorance, and contribute further to produce
and strengthen an opinion among them that you are
no longer fit to govern them.'

20. Lastly, invest the general of your army in the
provinces with great and unconstitutional powers,
and free him from the control of even your own civil
governors. Let him have troops enough under his
command, with all the fortresses in his possession;
and who knows but (like some provincial generals in
the Roman empire, and encouraged by the imiversal
discontent you have produced) he may take it into
his head to set up for himself? If he should, and
you have carefully practised the few excellent rules
of mine, take my word for it, all the provinces will
immediately join him ; and you will that day (if you
have not done it sooner) get rid of the trouble of gov-
erning them, and all the plagues attending their com-
merce and connection from thenceforth and forever.'

' As the reader may be inclined to divide his belief between the
wisdom of the ministry and the candor and veracity of Dr. Franklin,
I shall inform him that two contrary objections may be made to the
truth of this representation. The first is, that the conduct of Great
Britain is made too absurd for possibility; and the second, that it is
not made absurd enough for fact. If we consider that this writing
does not include the measures subsequent to 1773, the latter difficulty
is easily set aside. The former I can only solve by the many instances
in history where the infatuation of individuals has brought the heaviest
calamities upon nations. — B. V.

2 A new and handsome edition of the above piece was published at
London in 1793, with the following ironical dedication. Lord Lough-
borough was once Mr. Wedderbum, and the same person who uttered
an abusive philippic against Dr. Franklin in a speech before the king
in council relating to Hutchinson's letters. See infra, p. 292. —
Editor. [For the " dedication," see foot note on p. 216.]

2i6 The Works of [1773

DXLII

TO THOMAS GUSHING

Sir : — Nothing of importance has occurred since my
last. This serves chiefly to cover a newspaper in which
I have stated a few of the American grievances that
were omitted in my "Receipt for Diminishing a
Great Empire." These odd ways of presenting
matters to the public view sometimes occasion them
to be more talked of and more attended to.
With great respect, I am, sir, etc.,

B. Franklin.*

DXLIII

TO THOMAS PERCIVAL =*

West Wycombe, the Seat of Lord le Despencer,
25 September, 1773.

Dear Sir: — I have received here your favor of the
1 8th, enclosing your very valuable paper of the

" To the Right Honorable Alexander, Lord Loughborough.

"My Lord: — When I reflect on your lordship's magnanimous con-
duct towards the author of the following golden rules, there is, in my
opinion, a pecuhar propriety in dedicating this new edition of them to
a nobleman whose talents were so eminently useful in procuring the
emancipation of our American brethren.

" In the most heartfelt wish that the same talents may be employed
on similar occasions with the same splendid success, I have the honor
to be, my lord, your lordship's most obedient and very humble servant,

"The Editor.

"London, Feb. 12, 1793."

1 This letter, found in the London Public Record Office, is thus en-
dorsed: "Benjamin Franklin, Sept. 23, 1773, private, wherein he
acknowledges himself author of a Receipt or rather Prescription for
Diminishing a Great Empire, as published in a London newspaper."
See this Receipt or Prescription, supra, p. 204.

2 A physician of Manchester, in England, and author of several pub-
lications on medical and philosophical subjects. — Ed.

1773] Benjamin Franklin 217

entuneration of Manchester. Such inquiries may be
as useful as they are curious, and if once made gen-
eral would greatly assist in the prudent government
of a State.

The difference of deaths between one in twenty-
eight at Manchester, and one in one himdred and
twenty at Morton is surprising. It seems to show
the unwholesomeness of the manufacturing life,
owing perhaps to the confinement in small, close
rooms, or in larger with numbers, or to poverty and
want of necessaries, or to drinking, or to all of them.
Farmers who manufacture in their own families what
they have occasion for and no more, are perhaps the
happiest people and the healthiest.

It is a curious remark that moist seasons are the
healthiest. The gentry of England are remarkably
afraid of moisture and of air. But seamen, who Hve
in perpetually moist air, are always healthy, if they
have good provisions. The inhabitants of Bermuda
St. Helena, and other islands far from continents,
surrounded with rocks, against which the waves con-
tinually dashing, fill the air with spray and vapor, and
where no wind can arrive that does not pass over
much sea, and of course bring much moisture; these
people are remarkably healthy. And I have long
thought that mere moist air has no ill effect on the
constitution, though air impregnated with vapors
from putrid marshes is found pernicious, not from the
moisture, but the putridity. It seems strange that a
man, whose body is composed in great part of moist
fluids, whose blood and juices are so watery, who can
swallow quantities of water and small beer daily

2i8 The Works of [1773

without inconvenience, should fancy that a Httle
more or less moisture in the air should be of such
importance. But we abound in absurdity and
inconsistency.

Thus, though it is generally allowed that taking
the air is a good thing, yet what caution against air!
What stopping of crevices! What wrapping up in
warm clothes! What stuffing of doors and win-
dows, even in the midst of summer! Many London
families go out once a day to take the air, three or
four persons in a coach, one perhaps sick; these go
three or four miles, or as many turns in Hyde Park,
with the glasses both up close, all breathing over and
over again the same air they brought out of town
with them in the coach, with the least change possi-
ble, and rendered worse and worse every moment.
And this they call taking the air. From many years'
observations on myself and others, I am persuaded
we are on a wrong scent in supposing moist or cold
air the causes of that disorder we call a cold. Some
unknown quality in the air may perhaps produce
colds, as in the influenza, but generally I apprehend
that they are the effect of too full living in propor-
tion to our exercise.

Excuse, if you can, my intruding into your pro-
vince, and believe me ever with sincere esteem, dear
sir, Your most obedient humble servant,

B. Franklin.

1773] Benjamin Franklin 219

DXLIV

TO JOHN INGENHOUSZ

London, 30 September, 1773.

My Dear Friend: — I rejoiced as much as any
friend could do at the news we received here from
time to time of your success in your profession, and
of the safe recovery of your illustrious patients of
that most amiable family. But it grieved us all, at
the same time, to hear that you did not yourself enjoy
health in that country. Surely their known good-
ness will graciously give you leave of absence, if you
have but the courage to request it, and permit you to
come and reside in England, which always agreed
well with your constitution. All your friends here
will be made happy by such an event.'

I had purposed to return to America this last sum-
mer, but some events in our colony affairs induced
me to stay here another winter. Some time in May
or June next I believe I shall leave England. May I
hope to see you here once more?

I shall be glad to see the work of the Abbe Fon-
tana on that disease of wheat. As yet I have not
heard that it is come to England.

Sir William Hamilton writes from Naples, that

^ Dr. Ingenhousz was now residing at Vienna, whither he had gone
to inoculate for the small-pox the Archduchess Theresa Elizabeth, the
only daughter of the emperor, and the Archdukes Ferdinand and
Maximilian, the emperor's brothers. He remained in that city several
years. He was in England during a large part of the year 1779, when
he published his work, entitled. Experiments on Vegetables, etc. In
the title-page of that work he styles himself "Counsellor of the Court
and Body Physician to their Imperial Majesties." — Editor.

2 20 The Works of [1773

after many experiments he has not been able to per-
ceive any certain signs of electricity in the torpedo.
It is perhaps best that there should be two opinions
on this subject, for that may occasion a more
thorough examination of it, and finally make us bet-
ter acquainted with it.

It is not difficult to construct a needle, so as to keep
pointing to the meridian of any one place, whatever
may be the variation in that place. But to point
always to the meridian, wherever the needle may
be removed, is, I apprehend, not possible.

Mr. Nairne has, as you have heard, finished a very
fine electric machine. I have seen sparks from the
prime conductor thirteen inches in length. He has
added a large battery, and produces a discharge from
it sufficiently strong to blast growing vegetables, as
lightning is supposed to do. From a greater force
used, perhaps some more discoveries may be made.
I am much pleased with the account you give me of
your new machine of white velvet rubbed upon hare-
skin.

Last year the Board of Ordnance applied to the
Royal Society here for their opinion of the propriety
of erecting conductors to secure the powder maga-
zines at Purfleet. The Society appointed a com-
mittee to view the magazines, and report their advice.
The members appointed were Messrs. Cavendish,
Watson, Delaval, Robertson, Wilson, and myself.
We accordingly, after reviewing them, drew up a
report, recommending conductors to each, elevated
ten feet above the roof, and pointed at the ends. Mr.
Delaval did not attend; all the rest agreed in the

1773] Benjamin Franklin 221

Report, only Mr. Wilson objected to pointing the
rods, asserting that blunt ends or knobs would be
better. The work, however, was finished according
to our direction. He was displeased that his opinion
was not followed, and has written a pamphlet against
points. I have not answered it, being averse to dis-
putes. But in a new translation and edition of my
book, printed lately at Paris, in two volumes, quarto,
you will see some new experiments of mine, with the
reasonings upon them, which satisfied the committee.
They are not yet printed in English, but will be in a
new edition now printing at Oxford, and perhaps they
will be in the next Transactions.

It has been a fashion to decry Hawkesworth's book;
but it does not deserve the treatment it has met with.
It acquaints us with new people having new customs,
and teaches us a good deal of new knowledge.

Captain Phips has returned, not having been able
to approach the Pole nearer than eighty-one degrees,
the ice preventing.

M. Tremont, an ingenious young Italian, who was
lately here, gave me a little spy-glass of his making,
upon Pere Boscovich's principles, the ocular lens be-
ing a composition of different glasses instead of the
objective. It is indeed a very good one.

Sir John Pringle is returned from Scotland, better
in health than heretofore. He always speaks of you
with respect and affection, as does Dr. Huck and all
that knew you.

I am ever, with the sincerest esteem, dear sir.
Your faithful and most obedient servant,

B. Franklin.

222 The Works of [1773

DXLV

TO WILLIAM FRANKLIN

London, 6 October, 1773.

Dear Son: — I wrote to you on the ist of last
month, since which I have received yours of July
29th, from New York. I know not what letters of
mine Governor Hutchinson could mean as advising
the people to insist on their independency. But
whatever they were, I suppose he has sent copies of
them hither, having heard some whisperings about
them.^ I shall, however, be able at any time to
justify every thing I have written ; the purport being
uniformly this, that they should carefully avoid all
tumults and every violent measure, and content
themselves with verbally keeping up their claims
and holding forth their rights whenever occasion
requires; secure that, from the growing importance
of America, those claims will erelong be attended
to and acknowledged.

From a long and thorough consideration of the
subject, I am indeed of opinion that the Parliament
has no right to make any law whatever, binding on
the colonies; that the king, and not the king.
Lords, and Commons collectively, is their sovereign;
and that the king, with their respective Parliaments,
is their only legislator. I know your sentiments
differ from mine on these subjects. You are a
thorough government man, which I do not wonder at,
nor do I aim at converting you. I only wish you to

' Governor Hutchinson procured a copy of one of Dr. Franklin's
letters, and sent it to the ministry.

1773] Benjamin Franklin 223

act uprightly and steadily, avoiding that duplicity
which, in Hutchinson, adds contempt to indignation.
If you can promote the prosperity of your people, and
leave them happier than you found them, whatever
your political principles are, your memory will be
honored.

I have written two pieces here lately for the Public
Advertiser, on American affairs, designed to expose
the conduct of this country toward the colonies in a
short, comprehensive, and striking view, and stated,
therefore, in out-of-the-way forms, as most likely to
take the general attention. The first was called
" Rules by Which a Great Empire may be Reduced to
a Small One ' ' ; the second, " An Edict of the King of
Prussia." I sent you one of the first, but could not
get enough of the second to spare you one, though
my clerk went the next morning to the printer's and
wherever they were sold. They were all gone but
two. In my own mind I preferred the first, as a
composition, for the quantity and variety of the
matter contained, and a kind of spirited ending of
each paragraph. But I find that others here gener-
ally prefer the second.

I am not suspected as the author, except by one or
two friends ; and have heard the latter spoken of in
the highest terms, as the keenest and severest piece
that has appeared here for a long time. Lord Mans-
field, I hear, said of it, that it was very able and very
ARTFUL indeed; and would do mischief by giving here
a bad impression of the measures of government;
and in the colonies, by encouraging them in their
contumacy. It is reprinted in the Chronicle, where

224 The Works of [1773

you will see it, but stripped of all the capitalizing and
italicizing, that intimate the allusions and mark the
emphasis of written discourses, to bring them as near
as possible to those spoken. Printing such a piece all
in one even small character, seems to me like repeat-
ing one of Whitefield's sermons in the monotony of a
schoolboy.

What made it the more noticed here, was that
people in reading it were, as the phrase is, taken in,
till they had got half through it, and imagined it a
real edict, to which mistake I suppose the king of
Prussia's character must have contributed. I was
down at Lord le Despencer's, when the post brought
that day's papers. Mr. Whitehead was there, too,
(Paul Whitehead, the author of Manners,) who
runs early through all the papers, and tells the com-
pany what he finds remarkable. He had them in
another room, and we were chatting in the breakfast
parlor, when he came running in to us out of breath,
with the paper in his hand. " Here ! ' ' says he, " here's
news for ye! Here 's the king of Prussia claiming
a right to this kingdom ! ' ' All stared, and I as much
as anybody; and he went on to read it. When he
had read two or three paragraphs, a gentleman
present said: " Damn his impudence; I dare say we
shall hear by next post, that he is upon his march
with one hundred thousand men to back this."
Whitehead, who is very shrewd, soon after began to
smoke it, and looking in my face, said, "I '11 be
hanged if this is not some of your American jokes
upon us." The reading went on, and ended with
abundance of laughing, and a general verdict that

1773] Benjamin Franklin 225

it was a fair hit; and the piece was cut out of the
paper and preserved in my Lord's collection.

I do not wonder that Hutchinson should be de-
jected. It must be an uncomfortable thing to live
among people who, he is conscious, universally detest
him. Yet I fancy he will not have leave to come
home, both because they know not well what to do
with him, and because they do not very well like his
conduct. I am ever your affectionate father,

B. Franklin.

DXLVI

FROM MRS. DEBORAH FRANKLIN

OcKTOBER ye 29, 1773.

My Dear Child : — I have bin verey much distrest
a boute you as I did not aney letter nor one word
from you nor did I hear one word from oney bodey
that you wrote to so I muste submit and inde ( ?) to
submit to what I am to bair I did write by Capt
Folkner to you but he is gon down and when I read it
over I did not like t and so if this donte send it I
shante like it as I donte send you aney news now I
donte go abrode

I shall tell you what Consemes my selef our young-
est Grand son is the forced child us a live he has had
the Small Pox and had it very fine and got a brod a
gen. Capt All will tell you aboute him and Benj
Franklin Beache, but as it is so dificall to writ I have
deserd him to tell you, I have sent a squerel for your
friend and wish her better luck it is a very fine one I

VOL. VI.— 15.

226 The Works of [1773

have had very bad luck they one kild and another
run a way all thow they are bred up tame I have not
a Caige as I donte know where the man lives that
makes them my love to Salley Franklin my love to all
our Cusins as thow menshond remember me to Mr.
and Mrs. Weste doe you ever hear any thing of
Ninely Evans as was

I thanke you for the silke and hat it at the womons
to make it up but have it put up as you wrote [torn]
(?) I thonke it it is very prittey; what was the
prise ? I desier to give my love to every bodey [torn]
I shold love Billey wes in town 5 or 6 day whan the
child was in the Small Pox Mr Franklin [torn] not
sene him yit I am to tell a verey pirtey thing about
Ben the players is cume to town and they am to
ackte on Mimday he wanted to see a play he unkill
Beache had given him a doler his mama asked him
wather he wold give it for a ticket, or buy his
Brother a neckles he sed his Brother a necklas he is a
charmm child as ever was Borne my Grand cheldren
are the Best in the world Salley will write I cante
aney mor I am your a feckshone wife,

D. Franklin.

DXLVII

FROM HIS DAUGHTER SALLY

30 October, 1773.

Dear and Honored Sir: — ^We are all much disap-
pointed at your not coming home this fall. I was in
great hopes of seeing you and presenting you with

17731 Benjamin Franklin 227

two of the finest boys in the world. Do not let any
thing, my dear sir, prevent your coming to your
family in the spring, for indeed we want you here
much. I give you many thanks for the very elegant
silk ; I never knew what it was to be proud of a new
garment before — this I shall wear with pride and
pleasure. Little William is just out of the small pox ;
had it most delightfully. He is for size and temper
beyond all the boys of his age in America. How can
Mrs. Stevenson wish for girls; the boy babies are
infinitely cleverer. I dare say by this time she would
not change her youngest grandson for a girl; I am
sure I would not part with Will for a dozen girls. I
have not seen Mr. Bache's letter, but suppose he has
given you an account of Ben's manly behavior on his
journey to New York, where he went in high expec-
tation of meeting you, and would have stayed for the
September packet, could they have had any hopes of
your being in her. I must mention to you that I am
no longer housekeeper ; it gave my dear mamma so
much uneasiness, and the money was given to me in a
manner which made it impossible to save any thing
by laying in things beforehand, so that my house-
keeping answered no good purpose, and I have the
more readily given it up, though I think it my duty,
and would willingly take the care and trouble off of
her, could I possibly please and make her happy.
The dining-room wants new paper; the border,
which is a gold one, never was put up; the hand-
some picture is in it, and it would make a sweet room
if it was nicely done up. We have no plates or dishes
fit to set before your friends, and the queen's ware

228 The Works of [1773

is thought very elegant here, particularly the spriged.
I just mention this, as it would be much cheaper for
you to bring them than to get them here, and you
have them much handsomer. Mamma has sent a
fine fellow in Mungo 's room ' ; the ground ones never
can be tamed, they say ; however, we will try to get
some and send them. I have no news to write, as I
know very little that passes out of the nursery, where
indeed it is my greatest pleasure to be. After my
mother and Mrs. Bache had done writing, a son of
your old friend Potts, of Potts Grove, called to ask
for a letter. Mentioning his name will, I know, be
enough, and as my little boy wants me, I must con-
clude. With love to Mrs. Stevenson, Mr. and Mrs.
Hewson, I am as ever, my dear papa, your dutiful
and affectionate daughter.

S. Bache.

DXLVIII

TO THOMAS GUSHING

London, i November, 1773.

Sir: — I duly received your favor of the 26th of
August, with the letter enclosed for Lord Dartmouth,
which I immediately sent to him. As soon as he
comes to town, I shall wait upon his Lordship, and
discourse with him upon the subject of it ; and I shall
immediately write to you what I can collect from the
conversation.

^ Of this squirrel, sent out to replace poor Mungo in the aflEections
of Miss Shipley, we have no farther tidings. — Ed.

1773] Benjamin Franklin 229

In my own opinion, the letter of the two Houses
of the 29th of June, proposing, as a satisfactory
measure, the restoring things to the state in which
they were at the conclusion of the late war, is a fair
and generous offer on our part, and my discourse
here is, that it is more than Britain has a right to ex-
pect from us; and that, if she has any wisdom left,
she will embrace it, and agree with us immediately ;
for that the longer she delays the accommodation,
which finally she must for her own sake obtain, the
worse terms she may expect, since the inequaUty of
power and importance, that at present subsists be-
tween us, is daily diminishing, and our sense of our
own rights, and of her injustice, continually increas-
ing. I am the more encouraged to hold such lan-
guage, by perceiving that the general sense of the
nation is for us; a conviction prevailing that we
have been ill used, and that a breach with us would
be ruinous to this country.

The pieces I wrote, to increase and strengthen
those sentiments, were more read and talked of and
attended to than usual. The first, as you will see by
the enclosed, has been called for and reprinted in the
same paper, besides being copied in others, and in
the magazines. A long, labored answer has been
made to it, (by Governor Bernard, it is said,) which I
send you . I am told it does not satisfy those in whose
justification it was written, and that a better is pre-
paring. I think with you that great difficulties must
attend an attempt to make a new representation of
our grievances, in which the point of right should
be kept out of sight, especially as the concurrence

230 The Works of [1773

of so many colonies seems now necessary. And
therefore it would certainly be best and wisest for
Parliament (which does not meet till after the mid-
dle of January) to make up the matter themselves,
and at once reduce things to the state desired. There
are not wanting some here who believe this will really
be the case; for that, a new election being now in
view, the present members are likely to consider the
composing all differences with America as a measure
agreeable to the trading and manufacturing part of
the nation, and that the neglecting it may be made
use of by their opponents to their disadvantage.

I have as yet received no answer to the petition
for removing the governors.' I imagine that it will
hardly be complied with, as it would embarrass gov-
ernment to provide for them otherwise, and it will
be thought hard to elect men who have exposed
themselves by adhering to what is here called the
interests and rights of this country. But this I only
conjecture, as I have heard nothing certain about it.
Indeed I should think continuing them in their places
would be rather a punishment than a favor. For
what comfort can men have in living among a
people with whom they are the objects of universal
odium?

I shall continue here one winter longer, and use

my best endeavors, as long as I stay, for the service

of our country. With great esteem, I have the honor

to be, sir, etc.

B. Franklin.

I Petition from the Legislature of Massachusetts for the removal of
Governor Hutchinson and Lieutenant-Governor Oliver.

1773] Benjamin Franklin 231

DXLIX

TO AN ENGRAVER ^

London, 3 November, 1773.

Sir : — I was much pleased with the specimens you
so kindly sent me of your new art of engraving.
That on the china is admirable. No one would sup-
pose it any thing but painting. I hope you meet
with all the encouragement you merit and that the
invention will be, what inventions seldom are, profit-
able to the inventor.

Now we are speaking of inventions; I know not
who pretends to that of copper-plate engravings for
earthen-ware and I am not disposed to contest the
honor with anybody as the improvement in taking
impressions not directly from the plate, but from
printed paper applicable by that means to other than
flat forms, is far beyond my first idea. But I have
reason to apprehend, that I might have given the
hint on which that improvement was made; for,
more than twenty years since, I wrote to Dr. Mitchell
from America, proposing to him the printing of
square tiles, for ornamenting chimneys from copper
plates, describing the manner in which I thought
it might be done, and advising the borrowing from
the booksellers the plates that had been used in a
thin folio, called Moral Virtue Delineated for the
purpose.
The Dutch Delft-ware tiles were much used in

* The name of the engraver is not contained in the manuscript, from
which the letter has been transcribed.

232 The Works of [1773

America, which are only or chiefly Scripture histories,
wretchedly scrawled, I wished to have those moral
prints which were originally taken from Horace's po-
etical figures, introduced on tiles, which, being about
our chimneys, and constantly in the eyes of children
when by the fireside, might give parents an opportu-
nity, in explaining them, to impress moral sentiments ;
and I gave expectations of great demand for them
if executed. Dr. Mitchell wrote to me, in answer,
that he had communicated my scheme to several of
the principal artists in the earthen way about Lon-
don, who rejected it as impracticable; and it was not
till some years after that I first saw an enamelled
snuff-box, which I was sure was from a copper
plate, though the curvature of the form made me
wonder how the impression was taken.

I understand the china work in Philadelphia is de-
clined by the first owners. Whether any others will
take it up and continue it, I know not.

Mr. Banks is at present engaged in preparing to
publish the botanical discoveries of his voyage. He
employs ten engravers for the plates, in which he is
very curious, so as not to be quite satisfied in some
cases with the expression given by either the graver,
etching, or mezzotinto, particularly where there is a
woolliness, or a multitude of small points, on a leaf.
I sent him the largest of the specimens you sent, con-
taining a number of sprigs. I have not seen him
since, to know whether your manner would not suit
some of his plants better than the more common
methods. With great esteem, I am, sir, etc.,

B. Franklin.

1773] Benjamin Franklin 233

DL

TO JOSEPH GALLOWAY

London, 3 November, 1773.

Sir: — There is at present great quietness here,
and no prospect that the war between the Turks and
Russians will spread farther in Europe. The last
harvest is allowed to have been generally plentiful in
this country ; and yet, such was the preceding scanti-
ness of crops, that it is thought there is no com to
spare for exportation, which continues the advant-
ages to our corn provinces.

The Parliament is not to meet till after the middle
of January. It is said there is a disposition to com-
pose all differences with America before the next
general election, as the trading and manufacturing
part of the nation are generally our well-wishers,
think we have been hardly used, and apprehend ill
consequences from a continuance of the measures
that we complain of; and that, if those measures are
not changed, an American interest will be spirited
up at the election against the present members who
are in, or friends to administration. Our steady re-
fusal to take tea from hence for several years past has
made its impressions. The scheme for supplying us
without repealing the act, by a temporary license
from the treasury to export tea to America, free of
duty, you are before this time acquainted with. I
much want to hear how that tea is received. If it is
rejected, the act will undoubtedly be repealed, other-
wise I suppose it will be continued; and when we
have got into the use of the Company's tea, and the

234 The Works of [1773

foreign correspondences that supply us at present are
broken off, the Ucenses will be discontinued, and the
act enforced.

I apprehend the better understanding, that lately-
subsisted in our provincial administration, will hardly
be continued with the new governor; but you will
soon see. I wish for the full letter you promise me
by the next packet, which is now daily expected.
With imalterable esteem and attachment, I am, etc.,

B. Franklin.

DLI

TO WILLIAM FRANKLIN

London, 3 November, 1773.

Dear Son : — I wrote you pretty fully by the last
packet, and having had no line from you of later date
than the beginning of August, and little stirring here
lately, I have now little to write.

In that letter I mentioned my having written two
papers, of which I preferred the first, but the public
the last. It seems I was mistaken in judging of the
public opinion; for the first was reprinted some
weeks after in the same paper, the printer giving for
reason, that he did it in compliance with the earnest
request of many private persons, and some respect-
able societies; which is the more extraordinary, as it
had been copied in several other papers, and in the
Gentleman's Magazine. Such papers may seem to
have a tendency to increase our divisions ; but I in-
tend a contrary effect, and hope, by comprising in

1773] Benjamin Franklin 235

little room, and setting in a strong light, the griev-
ances of the colonies, more attention will be paid to
them by our administration, and that, when their
unreasonableness is generally seen, some of them will
be removed, to the restoration of harmony between
us. B. Franklin.

DLII

OF THE STILLING OF WAVES BY MEANS OF OIL ^

READ AT THE ROYAL SOCIETY, JUNE 2, 1774

Extract of a Letter from Dr. Brownrigg to Dr. Franklin
dated Ormathwaite, zy January, 1773.

By the enclosed from an old friend, a worthy clergy-
man at Carlisle, whose great learning and extensive
knowledge in most sciences would have more dis-
tinguished him, had he been placed in a more con-
spicuous point of view, you will find that he had
heard of your experiment on Derwent Lake, and has
thrown together what he could collect on that sub-
ject ; to which I have subjoined one experiment from
the relation of another gentleman.

Extract of a Letter from the Reverend Mr. Parish
to Dr. Brownrigg

I some time ago met with Mr. Dun, who surprised
me with an account of an experiment you had tried

^ Extracted from sundry letters between Benj. Franklin, LL.D.,
F.R.S., Wm. Brownrigg, M.D., F.R.S., and the Reverend Mr. Parish.

236 The Works of [1773

upon the Derwent Water, in company with Sir John
Pringle and Dr. FrankHn. According to his repre-
sentation, the water, which had been in great agita-
tion before, was instantly calmed upon pouring in
only a very small quantity of oil, and that to so great
a distance about the boat as seemed incredible. I
have since had the same accounts from others, but I
suspect all of a little exaggeration. Pliny mentions
this property of oil as known particularly to the
divers, who made use of it in his days, in order to
have a more steady light at the bottom. » The sailors,
I have been told, have observed something of the
same kind in our days, that the water is always re-
markably smoother in the wake of a ship that has
been newly tallowed than it is in one that is foul.
Mr. Pennant also mentions an observation of the
like nature made by the seal-catchers in Scotland.
(British Zoloogy, vol iv.. Article " Seal.") When
these animals are devouring a very oily fish, which
they always do under water, the waves above are
observed to be remarkably smooth, and by this
mark the fishermen know where to look for them.
Old Pliny does not usually meet with all the credit I
am inclined to think he deserves. I shall be glad to
have an authentic account of the Keswick experi-
ment, and if it comes up to the representations that

I Sir Gilfred Lawson, who served long in the army at Gibraltar,
assures me that the fisherman in that place are accustomed to pour a
little oil on the sea, in order to still its motion, that they may be
enabled to see the oysters lying at its bottom; which are there very
large, and which they take up with a proper instrument. This Sir
Gilfred had often seen there performed, and said the same was prac-
tised on other parts of the Spanish coast. — Note by Dr. Brownrigg.

1773] Benjamin Franklin 237

have been made of it, I shall not much hesitate to
believe the old gentleman in another more wonderful
phenomenon he relates, of stilling a tempest only
by throwing up a little vinegar into the air.

TO DR. BROWNRIGG

London, 7 November, 1773.

Dear Sir: — I thank you for the remarks of your
learned friend at Carlisle. I had, when a youth,
read and smiled at Pliny's account of a practice
among the seamen of his time, to still the waves in a
storm by pouring oil into the sea; which he men-
tions, as well as the use made of oil by the divers;
but the stilling a tempest by throwing vinegar into
the air had escaped me. I think with your friend,
that it has been of late too much the mode to slight
the learning of the ancients. The learned, too, are
apt to slight too much the knowledge of the vulgar.
The cooling by evaporation was long an instance
of the latter. The art of smoothing the waves by oil
is an instance of both.

Perhaps you may not dislike to have an account
of all I have heard, and learnt, and done in this way.
Take it if you please as follows :

In 1757, being at sea in a fleet of ninety-six sail
bound against Louisbourg, I observed the wakes of
two of the ships to be remarkably smooth, while all
the others were ruffled by the wind, which blew fresh.
Being puzzled with the differing appearance, I at last
pointed it out to our captain, and asked him the

238 The Works of [1773

meaning of it. "The cooks," said he, "have, I sup-
pose, been just emptying their greasy water through
the scuppers, which has greased the sides of those
ships a Httle. " And this answer he gave me with an
air of some Httle contempt, as to a person ignorant of
what everybody else knew. In my own mind I at
first slighted his solution, though I was not able to
think of another; but recollecting what I had for-
merly read in Pliny, I resolved to make some experi-
ment of the effect of oil on water, when I should have
opportunity.

Afterwards being again at sea in 1762, I first ob-
served the wonderful quietness of oil on agitated
water in the swinging glass lamp I made to hang up
in the cabin, as described in my printed papers. '
This I was continually looking at and considering as
an appearance to me inexplicable. An old sea cap-
tain, then a passenger with me, thought little of it,
supposing it an effect of the same kind with that
of oil put on water to smooth it, which he said was a
practice of the Bermudians when they would strike
fish, which they could not see if the surface of the
water was ruffled by the wind. This practice I had
never before heard of, and was obliged to him for the
information; though I thought him mistaken as to
the sameness of the experiment, the operations being
different as well as the effects. In one case the water
is smooth till the oil is put on, and then becomes
agitated. In the other it is agitated before the
oil is applied, and then becomes smooth. The
same gentleman told me, he had heard it was a

» See the letter to Dr. John Pringle, dated December i, 1762. — Ed.

1773] Benjamin Franklin 239

practice with the fishermen of Lisbon when about
to return into the river (if they saw before
them too great a surf upon the bar, which they
apprehended might fill their boats in passing) to
empty a bottle or two of oil into the sea, which
would suppress the breakers and allow them to pass
safely. A confirmation of this I have not since had
an opportunity of obtaining, but discoursing of it
with another person who had often been in the Medi-
terranean, I was informed that the divers there, who,
when under water in their business, need light, which
the curling of the surface interrupts by the refractions
of so many little waves, let a small quantity of oil
now and then out of their mouths, which rising to
the surface smooths it, and permits the light to come
down to them. All these informations I at times re-
volved in my mind, and wondered to find no mention
of them in our books of experimental philosophy.

At length being at Clapham, where there is, on the
common, a large pond, which I observed one day to
be very rough with the wind, I fetched out a cruet of
oil, and dropped a Httle of it on the water. I saw it
spread itself with surprising swiftness upon the sur-
face ; but the effect of smoothing the waves was not
produced; for I had applied it first on the leeward
side of the pond, where the waves were greatest ; and
the wind drove my oil back upon the shore. I then
went to the windward side where they began to form ;
and there the oil, though not more than a tea-
spoonful, produced an instant calm over a space sev-
eral yards square, which spread amazingly, and
■extended itself gradually till it reached the lee side,

240 The Works of [1773

making all that quarter of the pond, perhaps half an
acre, as smooth as a looking-glass.

After this I contrived to take with me, whenever I
went into the country, a little oil in the upper hollow
joint of my bamboo cane, with which I might repeat
the experiment as opportunity should offer, and I
found it constantly to succeed.

In these experiments, one circumstance struck me
with particular surprise. This was the sudden, wide,
and forcible spreading of a drop of oil on the face of
the water, which I do not know that anybody has
hitherto considered. If a drop of oil is put on a
highly polished marble table, or on a looking glass
that lies horizontally, the drop remains in its place,
spreading very little. But, when put on water, it
spreads instantly many feet round, becoming so thin
as to produce the prismatic colors, for a considerable
space, and beyond them so much thinner as to be in-
visible, except in its effect of smoothing the waves at
a much greater distance. It seems as if a mutual
repulsion between its particles took place as soon as
it touched the water, and a repulsion so strong as to
act on other bodies swimming on the surface, as
straw, leaves, chips, etc., forcing them to recede every
way from the drop, as from a centre, leaving a large
clear space. The quantity of this force, and the dis-
tance to which it will operate, I have not yet ascer-
tained; but I think it is a curious inquiry, and I wish
to understand whence it arises.

In our journey to the north, when we had the
pleasure of seeing you at Ormathwaite, we visited the
celebrated Mr. Smeaton, near Leeds. Being about

1773] Benjamin Franklin 241

to show him the smoothing experiment on a little
pond near his house, an ingenious pupil of his, Mr.
Jessop, then present, told us of an odd appearance on
that pond which had lately occurred to him. He was
about to clean a little cup in which he kept oil, and
he threw upon the water some flies that had been
drowned in the oil. These flies presently began to
move, and turned round on the water very rapidly, as
if they were vigorously alive, though on examination
he found they were not so. I immediately concluded
that the motion was occasioned by the power of the
repulsion above mentioned, and that the oil, issuing
gradually from the spongy body of the fly, continued
the motion. He found some more flies drowned in
oil, with which the experiment was repeated before
us. To show that it was not any effect of life
recovered by the flies, I imitated it by little bits of
oiled chips and paper, cut in the form of a comma, of
the size of a common fly ; when the stream of repel-
ling particles issuing from the point made the comma
turn round the contrary way. This is not a chamber
experiment ; for it cannot be well repeated in a bowl
or dish of water on a table. A considerable surface
of water is necessary to give room for the expansion
of a small quantity of oil. In a dish of water, if the
smallest drop of oil be let fall in the middle, the whole
surface is presently covered with a thin greasy film
proceeding from the drop; but as soon as that film
has reached the sides of the dish, no more will issue
from the drop, but it remains in the form of oil; the
sides of the dish putting a stop to its dissipation by
prohibiting the farther expansion of the film.

VOL. VI. — 16.

242 The Works of [1773

Our friend Sir John Pringle, being soon after
in Scotland, learned there that those employed in
the herring fishery could at a distance see where
the shoals of herrings were, by the smoothness of the
water over them, which might possibly be occasioned,
he thought, by some oiliness proceeding from their
bodies.

A gentleman from Rhode Island told me, it had
been remarked that the harbor of Newport was ever
smooth while any whaling vessels were in it; which
probably arose from hence, that the blubber which
they sometimes bring loose in the hold, or the leak-
age of their barrels, might afford some oil to mix
with that water, which from time to time they pump
out, to keep their vessel free, and that some oil might
spread over the surface of the water in the harbor,
and prevent the forming of any waves.

This prevention I would thus endeavor to explain.

There seems to be no natural repulsion between
water and air, such as to keep them from coming into
contact with each other. Hence we find a quantity
of air in water ; and if we extract it by means of the
air-pump, the same water again exposed to the air
will soon imbibe an equal quantity.

Therefore air in motion, which is wind, in passing
over the smooth surface of water, may rub, as it
were, upon that surface, and raise it into wrinkles,
which, if the wind continues, are the elements of
future waves.

The smallest wave once raised does not immedi-
ately subside and leave the neighboring water quiet;
but in subsiding raises nearly as much of the water

1773] Benjamin Franklin 243

next to it, the friction of the parts making little dif-
ference. Thus a stone dropped into a pool raises first
a single wave round itself ; and leaves it by sinking
to the bottom; but that first wave subsiding raises
a second, the second a third, and so on in circles to a
great extent.

A small power continually operating will produce
a great action. A finger applied to a weighty sus-
pended bell can at first move it but little ; if repeat-
edly applied though with no greater strength, the
motion increases till the bell swings to its utmost
height, and with a force that cannot be resisted by
the whole strength of the arm and body. Thus the
small first-raised waves, being continually acted upon
by the wind, are, though the wind does not increase
in strength, continually increased in magnitude, ris-
ing higher, and extending their bases, so as to include
a vast mass of water in each wave, which in its mo-
tion acts with great violence.

But if there is a mutual repulsion between the par-
ticles of oil, and no attraction between oil and water,
oil dropped on water will not be held together by
adhesion to the spot whereon it falls; it will not be
imbibed by the water ; it will be at liberty to expand
itself ; and it will spread on a surface that, besides
being smooth to the most perfect degree of polish,
prevents, perhaps by repelling the oil, all immediate
contact, keeping it at a minute distance from itself;
and the expansion will continue till the mutual re-
pulsion between the particles of the oil is weakened
and reduced to nothing by their distance.

Now I imagine that the wind, blowing over water

244 The Works of [1773

thus covered with a film of oil, cannot easily catch
upon it, so as to raise the first wrinkles, but slides
over it, and leaves it smooth as it finds it. It moves
a little the oil indeed, which being between it and the
water, serves it to slide with, and prevents friction,
as oil does between those parts of a machine that
would otherwise rub hard together. Hence the oil
dropped on the windward side of a pond proceeds
gradually to leeward, as may be seen by the smooth-
ness it carries with it, quite to the opposite side.
For the wind being thus prevented from raising the
first wrinkles, that I call the elements of waves, can-
not produce waves, which are to be made by con-
tinually acting upon, and enlarging those elements,
and thus the whole pond is calmed.

Totally therefore we might suppress the waves in
any required place, if we could come at the windward
place where they take their rise. This in the ocean
can seldom if ever be done. But perhaps something
may be done on particular occasions, to moderate the
violence of the waves when we are in the midst of
them, and prevent their breaking where that would
be inconvenient.

For, when the wind blows fresh, there are con-
tinually rising on the back of every great wave a num-
ber of small ones, which roughen its surface, and give
the wind hold, as it were, to push it with greater force.
This hold is diminished, by preventing the generation
of those small ones. And possibly too when a wave's
surface is oiled, the wind in passing over it may rather
in some degree press it down, and contribute to pre-
vent its rising again, instead of promoting it.

1773] Benjamin Franklin 245

This, as mere conjecture, would have Uttle weight,
if the apparent effects of pouring oil into the midst of
waves were not considerable, and as yet not other-
wise accounted for.

When the wind blows so fresh, as that the waves
are not sufficiently quick in obeying its impulse, their
tops being thinner and lighter are pushed forward,
broken, and turned over in a white foam. Common
waves lift a vessel without entering it; but these
when large sometimes break above and pour over it,
doing great damage.

That this effect might in any degree be prevented,
or the height and violence of waves in the sea moder-
ated, we had no certain account; Pliny's authority
for the practice of seamen in his time being slighted.
But discoursing lately on this subject with his Excel-
lency Count Bentinck, of Holland, his son the Hon-
orable Captain Bentinck, and the learned Professor
Allemand, (to all whom I showed the experiment of
smoothing in a windy day the large piece of water at
the head of the Green Park,) a letter was mentioned,
which had been received by the Count from Batavia,
relative to the saving of a Dutch ship in a storm by
pouring oil into the sea. I much desired to see that
letter, and a copy of it was promised me, which I
afterward received.

Extract of a Letter from Mr. Tengnagel to Count Ben-
tinck, dated at Batavia, 5 January, lyyo

Near the islands Paul and Amsterdam, we met
with a storm, which had nothing particular in it

246 The Works of [1773

worthy of being communicated to you, except that
the captain found himself obliged for greater safety
in wearing the ship, to pour oil into the sea, to pre-
vent the waves breaking over her, which had an ex-
cellent effect, and succeeded in preserving us. As
he poured out but a little at a time, the East India
Company owes perhaps its ship to only six demi-ames
of oil-olive. I was present upon deck when this was
done ; and I should not have mentioned this circum-
stance to you, but that we have found people here so
prejudiced against the experiment, as to make it
necessary for the officers on board and myself to give
a certificate of the truth on this head, of which we
made no difficulty.

On this occasion I mentioned to Captain Bentinck
a thought which had occurred to me in reading the
voyages of our late circumnavigators, particularly
where accounts are given of pleasant and fertile
islands which they much desired to land upon, when
sickness made it more necessary, but could not effect
a landing through a violent surf breaking on the
shore, which rendered it impracticable. My idea was
that possibly by sailing to and fro at some distance
from such lee-shore, continually pouring oil into the
sea, the waves might be so much depressed and les-
sened before they reached the shore, as to abate the
height and violence of the surf, and permit a landing,
which, in such circumstances, was a point of sufficient
importance to justify the expense of the oil that
might be requisite for the purpose. That gentleman,

1773] Benjamin Franklin 247

who is ever ready to promote what may be of public
utility, though his own ingenious inventions have not
always met with the countenance they merited, was
so obliging as to invite me to Portsmouth, where an
opportunity would probably offer, in the course of a
few days, of making the experiment on some of the
shores about Spithead, in which he kindly proposed
to accompany me, and to give assistance with such
boats as might be necessary. Accordingly, about
the middle of October last, I went with some friends
to Portsmouth, and a day of wind happening, which
made a lee-shore between Haslar Hospital and the
point near Jillkecker, we went from the Centaur with
the long-boat and barge towards that shore. Our
disposition was this, the long-boat was anchored
about a quarter of a mile from the shore ; part of the
company were landed behind the point (a place more
sheltered from the sea) , who came round and placed
themselves opposite to the long-boat, where they
might observe the surf, and note if any change
occurred in it upon using the oil. Another party, in
the barge, plied to windward of the long-boat, as far
from her as she was from the shore, making trips of
about half a mile each, pouring oil continually out of
a large stone bottle, through a hole in the cork, some-
what bigger than a goose-quill. The experiment had
not, in the main point, the success we wished, for no
material difference was observed in the height or
force of the surf upon the shore; but those who
were in the long-boat could observe a tract of
smoothed water, the whole of the distance in which
the barge poured the oil, and gradually spreading in

248 The Works of [1773

breadth towards the long-boat. I call it smoothed,
not that it was laid level, but because, though the
swell continued, its surface was not roughened by the
wrinkles, or smaller waves, before mentioned, and
none or very few white caps (or waves whose tops
turn over in foam) appeared in that whole space,
though to windward and leeward of it there were
plenty ; and a wherry, that came round the point un-
der sail, in her way to Portsmouth, seemed to turn
into that tract of choice, and to use it from end to
end as a piece of turnpike road.

It may be of use to relate the circumstances of an
experiment that does not succeed, since they may
give hints of amendment in future trials ; it is there-
fore I have been thus particular, I shall only add
what I apprehend may have been the reason of our
disappointment.

I conceive that the operation of oil on water is:
first, to prevent the raising of new waves by the
wind; and, secondly, to prevent its pushing those be-
fore raised with such force, and consequently their
continuance of the same repeated height, as they
would have done if their surface were not oiled. But
oil will not prevent waves being raised by another
power — by a stone, for instance, falling into a still
pond ; for they then rise by the mechanical impulse
of the stone, which the greasiness on the surrounding
water cannot lessen or prevent, as it can prevent the
winds catching the surface and raising it into waves.
Now waves once raised, whether by the wind or any
other power, have the same mechanical operation,
by which they continue to rise and fall, as a pendulum

1773] Benjamin Franklin 249

will continue to swing a long time after the force
ceases to act by which the motion was first produced ;
that motion will, however, cease in time ; but time is
necessary. Therefore, though oil spread on an agi-
tated sea may weaken the push of the wind on those
waves whose surfaces are covered by it, and so, by
receiving less fresh impulse, they may gradually sub-
side; yet a considerable time, or a distance through
which they will take time to move, may be necessary
to make the effect sensible on any shore in a diminu-
tion of the surf; for we know that, when wind
ceases suddenly, the waves it has raised do not as
suddenly subside, but settle gradually, and are not
quite down till after the wind has ceased. So, though
we should, by oiling them, take off the effect of wind
on waves already raised, it is not to be expected that
those waves should be instantly levelled. The mo-
tion they have received will, for some time, continue ;
and, if the shore is not far distant, they arrive there
so soon, that their effect upon it will not be visibly
diminished. Possibly, therefore, if we had begun
our operations at a greater distance, the effect might
have been more sensible. And perhaps we did not
pour oil in sufficient quantity. Future experiments
may determine this.

I was, however, greatly obliged to Captain Ben-
tinck for the cheerful and ready aids he gave me;
and I ought not to omit mentioning Mr. Banks, Dr.
Solander, General Camoc, and Dr. Blagden, who all
assisted at the experiment, during that blustering,
unpleasant day, with a patience and activity that
could only be inspired by a zeal for the improvement

250 The Works of [1773

of knowledge, such especially as might possibly be of
use to men in situations of distress.

I would wish you to communicate this to your in-
genious friend, Mr. Farish, with my respects; and be-
lieve me to be, with sincere esteem, dear sir,
Your most obedient humble servant,

B. Franklin.

DLIII

FROM THOMAS GUSHING

Boston, io December, 1773.

Sir: — I have duly received your several favors of
August 24th and September ist, with the papers in-
closed, which I shall communicate to the House as
soon as they meet.

Capts. Hall, Bruce, and Coffin are arrived with a
quantity of tea shipped (in pursuance of a late act of
Parliament) by the East India Company, to the ad-
dress of Richard Clark & Sons, Thos. and Elisha
Hutchinson, Benjamin Faneuil, and Joshua Winslow,
Esq. Capt. Loring is hourly expected with more of
the same article consigned to the same persons ; this
has greatly alarmed the people here, who have had
several meetings upon the occasion. Inclosed you
have a paper containing their proceedings and reso-
lutions, by which you will perceive that they insist
upon the consignees sending back the tea, and have
determined it never shall be landed or pay any duty
here. The colonists have been long complaining of
the Parliament's taxing them without their consent.

1773] Benjamin Franklin 251

They have frequently remonstrated against the exer-
cise of a power they deem unconstitutional; their
petitions have been neglected if not rejected. How-
ever, within about twelve or fifteen months past they
have, by administration and by their friends in Great
Britain, been led to expect that their grievances
would be redressed and the revenue acts repealed,
and from some accounts received the last winter
from your side the water, they had reason to expect
the Tea Act would have been repealed the very last
session, instead of which the ParHament, at that very
session when the people expected to have obtained
relief, passed an act empowering the East India Com-
pany to ship their tea to America. This they consi-
dered as a new measure to estabhsh and confirm a
tax on the colonists, which they complained of as un-
just and unrighteous, and consequently has renewed
and increased their distress, and it is particularly in-
creased by this act, as it is introductive of monopoHes
and of all the consequent evils thence arising. But
their greatest objection is from its being manifestly
intended more effectually to secure the payment of
the duty on tea laid by an act passed in the 7 th of
George the Third, which act in its operation deprives
the colonists of the exclusive right of taxing them-
selves ; they further apprehend that this late act was
passed with a view not only to secure the duty afore-
said, but to lay a foundation of enhancing it, and in a
like way, if this should succeed, to lay other duties,
and that it demonstrates an indisposition in ministry
that the Parliament should grant them relief. Im-
pressed with these sentiments, the people say they

252 The Works of [1773

have been amused, they have been deceived, and at
a time when they had reason to expect they should
have been reheved they find administration ptirsuing
fresh measures to estabhsh and confirm those very
acts which, if persisted in, must reduce them to abject
slavery. This is the source of their distress, a dis-
tress that borders upon despair, and they know not
where to fly for relief. This is the cause of the pres-
ent great uneasiness and has been the occasion of the
extraordinary measures pursued by the people here
and in several of the principal colonies, for you must
observe the same spirit prevails in Philadelphia and
New York. Philadelphia began and passed their
resolutions above a month ago, New York catched it
from them, and so it passed on to this government,
and if administration had put their invention upon
the utmost stretch to contrive a plan of union for the
colonies, I cannot well conceive of any one measure
that would tend more effectually to unite the colo-
nies than the present act empowering the East India
Company to export their tea to America, and if they
should have it in contemplation to show any marks
of resentment upon the colonies for their conduct
relative to this matter, it is thought they ought to
begin with the people among yourselves, as many of
them have for these three of four months past beeo
repeatedly notifying our merchants of this manoeuvre
and advising them not by any means to suffer tea to
be landed ; if they designed to preserve their freedom,
they have been blowing the coals. We have got into
a flame, and where it will end God only knows. In
short, sir, our affairs are brought to a very serious

1773] Benjamin Franklin 253

crisis; and the court party themselves, as I am in-
formed, plainly see that the people are so thoroughly
roused and alarmed, and discover such a determined
resolution not any longer to suffer these impositions,
that they begin to think it absolutely necessary the
measures of administration with respect to America
should be altered; they find that the spirit runs
higher than in the time of the Stamp Act, and that
the opposition is more systematical, so that they
fear nothing less than the repeal of the revenue acts
and a radical redress of American grievances will
save us from a rupture with Great Britain, which
may prove fatal to both countries.

The people here are far from desiring that the con-
nection between Great Britain and America should
be broken. Esto perpetua is their ardent wish, but
upon terms only of equal liberty. May the Great
Governor of the Universe overrule the councils of the
nation and direct and influence to such measures as
may be productive of such a happy connection.

This will be dehvered you by Mr. John Sprague, a
young gentleman who goes for London with a view to
improve himself in the study of physic. I must refer
you to him for a more particular and circumstantial
account of the state of affairs here, and recommend
him to your friendly notice.

I conclude with great respect, your most obedient
humble servant.

Thomas Gushing.
Benjamin Franklin, Esq.

(Private.)

254 The Works of [1773

DLIV

FROM THOMAS GUSHING AND OTHERS, COMMITTEE, ETC.

Boston, 21 December, 1773.

Sir: — It has been the expectation of many of the
colonists that the last session of Parliament would
have put a final end to those grievances under which
they had so long been oppressed, and against which
they had so long in vain remonstrated. They ex-
pected that the revenue acts would have been re-
pealed and that they should no more have had reason
to complain of the unconstitutional exertions of
parliamentary power; they were naturally led to
form these expectations from the conduct of admin-
istration, who lately encouraged them with assur-
ances that if all things remained quiet in America,
these unhappy dissentions would soon terminate in a
lasting union; but how, sir, were they surprised to
find they had been deceived ; to find that the Parlia-
ment, at the very time they expected relief, pursued
new measures for effectively securing and enhanc-
ing the oppressive revenues, and with this view,
by an act passed the last session, impowered the East
India Company to ship their teas to America. From
this act they readily saw that they had nothing to
hope from the favor of administration, but that they
rather discovered an indisposition that the Parlia-
ment should grant them any relief. They con-
sidered the act as introductive to monopolies, which,
besides the train of evils that attend them in a com-
mercial view, are forever dangerous to public liberty,
more especially under the direction and influence of

1773] Benjamin Franklin 255

government. They also looked upon it pregnant
with new grievances, paving the way to further im-
positions, and in its consequences threatening the
final destruction of American liberties. Thrown by
this idea into a state of desperation, the united voice
of the people, not only in this province, but in New
York and Pennsylvania, and as far as we can learn
in all the colonies, was, that they would never suffer
the tea to be landed, but would prefer any species of
hazard and danger to a tame submission to measures
which, if pursued, must reduce them to a state of
abject slavery. Administration could not have in-
vented a method so effectual for raising the spirit of
the colonies, or promoting among them an entire
union of sentiment. At the same time the people
on your side the water have for several months been
repeatedly informing our merchants of this man-
oeuvre and advising them, as they regarded their
sacred rights, to withstand the landing of the teas by
the most vigorous opposition.

While the minds of the people were impressed with
these sentiments the vessels arrived with the teas,
consigned to Messrs. Richard Clark & Sons, Thomas
and Elisha Hutchinson, Benjamin Faneuil and
Joshua Winslow, Esqrs. Previous to this the town
of Boston had several meetings, in order to induce
the assignees to resign their trust, but to no purpose,
and immediately upon the arrival of the vessels
aforesaid, that every measure possible might be
taken to prevent confusion and disorder, while the
minds of all were in great agitation, the people in
this and many of the neighboring towns assembled

256 The Works of [1773

in the Old South Meeting House (Faneuil Hall not
being capacious enough to contain the people that
attended), to prevail with the consignees to send
back the teas, and if possible to preserve it from that
destruction which the resentment of the people
might justly lead them to expect. You will see by the
enclosed papers the measures they took and the
resolves they passed, and will wonder, perhaps, that
these resolves and measures were in vain. They not
only treated with the consignees, but with the owners
and masters of these vessels, but all without success.
Despairing to effectuate any method of accommoda-
tion, after having tried all that could be devised to no
purpose, they dissolved the meeting, which, agreeable
to their constant and declared design, had protected
the teas from destruction. Nigh twenty days were
now passed since the arrival of one of the tea vessels,
commanded by Capt. Hall, at which time, according
to Act of Parliament, it was in the power of the cus-
tom-house officers to take the teas into their own
possession in order to secure the duties. There were
just grounds to think that they intended to do it the
minute the twenty days were expired, and that they
would attempt to land them by force and overbear
any opposition that might be made by a second
effusion of blood. Under these apprehensions the
teas, the evening of the i6th instant, were destroyed
by a number of persons unknown and in disguise.
Such was the obstinacy of the consignees, their ad-
visers and coadjutors, such their aversion to all con-
ciliating measures, that they are almost universally
condemned, and some even of the court party among

1773] Benjamin Franklin 257

us acknowledged that the destruction of the teas
must be imputed to these obstinate enemies of our
liberties, who never would consent to any method
proposed for its preservation, and who perhaps
wished to irritate and inflame the minds of an in-
jured, oppressed people to measures of violence, of
which afterwards they hoped to make their own
advantages.

The House of Representatives, at the last session,
appointed us a committee to write to their agent!
In pursuance of this appointment we have given you
this information of the present state of our affairs,
and doubt not you will make such an improvement
of this intelligence as shall be most for the interest of
this province in particular, and of the colonies in
general.

We are, with respect, your most humble servants,

Thomas Gushing,
Sam'l Rhoades,
John Hancock,
Wm. Phillips.

Benjamin Franklin, Esq.

DLV

PREFACE TO " AN ABRIDGMENT OF THE BOOK OF COM-
MON PRAYER." '

The editor of the following abridgment of the
Liturgy of the Church of England thinks it but

Mn a letter dated London, June 17, 1785, Grenville Sharp wrote to

f^^nklm: "I have been informed that several years ago you re-

""'''"^ lof vVi",'^^ °^ '^^ ^^"^^^ °^ England, with a view, by some few

258 The Works of [1773

decent and respectful to all, more particularly to the
reverend body of clergy, who adorn the Protestant
religion by their good works, preaching, and example,
that he should humbly offer some reasons for such an
undertaking. He addresses himself to the serious
and discerning. He professes himself to be a Pro-
testant of the Church of England, and holds in the
highest veneration the doctrines of Jesus Christ. He
is a sincere lover of social worship, deeply sensible of
its usefulness to society ; and he aims at doing some
service to religion, by proposing such abbreviations
and omissions in the forms of our Liturgy (retaining
every thing he thinks essential) as might, if adopted,
procure a more general attendance. For, besides the
differing sentiments of many pious and well-disposed
persons in some speculative points, who in general

alterations, to promote the more general use of it; but I have never yet
been able to see a copy of the form you proposed. Our present public
service is certainly, upon the whole, much too long, as it is commonly
used, so that a prudent revision of it, by the common consent of the
members of the Episcopal Church of America, might be very advan-
tageous; though for my own part I conceive that the addition of one
single rubric from the Gospel would be amply sufhcient to direct the
advisers to the only corrections that seem to be necessary at present.
I mean a general rule illustrated by general examples, references, and
marks, to warn officiating ministers how they may avoid all useless
repetitions and tautology in reading the service."

In reply to this inquiry of Mr. Sharp, Dr. Franklin wrote Mr. Sharp,
about two weeks later, July 5th, as follows: "The Liturgy you men-
tion was an abridgement of that made by a noble lord of my acquaint-
ance, who requested me to assist him by taking the rest of the book,
viz., the Catechism, and the reading and singing Psalms. These I
abridged by retaining of the Catechism only the two questions, What
is your duty to God? What is your duty to your neighbor? with an-
swers. The Psalms were much contracted by leaving out the repeti-
tions (of which I found more than I could have imagined) and the
imprecations, which appeared not to smt well the Christian doctrine of

1773] Benjamin Franklin 259

have a good opinion of our Church, it has often been
observed and complained of, that the Morning and
Evening Service, as practised in England and else-
where, are so long, and filled with so many repeti-
tions, that the continued attention suitable to so
serious a duty becomes impracticable, the mind wan-
ders, and the fervency of devotion is slackened.
Also the propriety of saying the same prayer more
than once in the same service is doubted, as the
service is thereby lengthened without apparent neces-
sity ; our Lord having given us a short prayer as an
example, and censured the heathen for thinking to be
heard because of much speaking.

Moreover, many pious and devout persons, whose
age or infirmities will not suffer them to remain
for hours in a cold church, especially in the winter

forgiveness of injuries, and doing good to enemies. The book was
printed by Wilkie, in St. Paul's Churchyard, but never much noticed.
Some were given away, very few sold, and I suppose the bulk became
waste paper. In the prayers so much was retrenched that approba-
tion could hardly be expected; but I think with you, a moderate
abridgment might not only be useful, but generally acceptable."

The book here referred to was entitled : Abridgment of the Book of Com-
mon Prayer and Administration of the Sacraments, and Other Rites and
Ceremonies of the Church, according to the Use of the Church of England;
together with the Psalter or Psalms of David, pointed as they are to
be sung or said in the Churches. London. Printed in the Year
MDCCLXXIII. The noble lord associated in the preparation of this
abridgment was Lord Despencer, with whom, during the summer of
1773, Franklin passed some time at his cotmtry residence. The Doctor
probably never imdertook any work for which he was so imperfectly
equipped as that of settling the terms of a Liturgy for a Christian
Church. It is not surprising that the fruit of his efforts was "little
noticed," and "the book became waste paper." The preface, which
was entirely his own, is interesting, however, as the fullest expression
that we have of his views on the subject of public worship, just as it
is interesting to get a blind man's view of the colors of the rainbow. —
Editor.

26o The Works of [1773

season, are obliged to forego the comfort and edifica-
tion they would receive by their attendance at divine
service. These, by shortening the time, would be
relieved; and the younger sort, who have had some
principles of religion instilled into them, and who
have been educated in a belief of the necessity of
adoring their Maker, would probably more fre-
quently, as well as cheerfully, attend divine service,
if they were not detained so long at any one time.
Also many well-disposed tradesmen, shopkeepers,
artificers, and others, whose habitations are not re-
mote from churches, could, and would, more fre-
quently at least, find time to attend divine service
on other than Sundays, if the prayers were reduced
to a much narrower compass.

Formerly there were three services performed at
different times of the day, which three services are
now usually joined in one. This may suit the con-
venience of the person who officiates, but is too
often inconvenient and tiresome to the congregation.
If this abridgment, therefore, should ever meet with
acceptance, the well-disposed clergy who are laudably
desirous to encourage the frequency of divine service,
may promote so great and good a purpose by repeat-
ing it three times on a Sunday, without so much
fatigue to themselves as at present. Suppose, at
nine o'clock, at eleven, and at one in the evening;
and by preaching no more sermons than usual of
a moderate length; and thereby accommodate a
greater number of people with convenient hours.

These were general reasons for wishing and pro-
posing an abridgment. In attempting it we do not

1773] Benjamin Franklin 261

presume to dictate even to a single Christian. We
are sensible there is a proper authority in the rulers
of the Church for ordering such matters; and when-
ever the time shall come when it may be thought
not unreasonable to revise our Liturgy, there is no
doubt but every suitable improvement will be made,
under the care and direction of so much learning,
wisdom, and piety, in one body of men collected.
Such a work as this must then be much better
executed. In the meantime this humble perform-
ance may serve to show the practicabihty of shorten-
ing the service near one half, without the omission
of what is essentially necessary ; and we hope, more-
over, that the book may be occasionally of some use
to families, or private assemblies of Christians.

To give now some account of particulars. We
have presumed upon this plan of abridgment to omit
the First Lesson, which is taken from the Old Testa-
ment, and retain only the Second from the New
Testament, which, we apprehend, is more suitable to
teach the so-much-to-be-revered doctrine of Christ,
and of more immediate importance to Christians;
although the Old Testament is allowed by all to be
an accurate and concise history, and, as such, may
more properly be read at home.

We do not conceive it necessary for Christians to
make use of more than one creed. Therefore, in
this abridgment are omitted the Nicene Creed and
that of St. Athanasius. Of the Apostle's Creed we
have retained the parts that are most intelligible and
most essential. And as the Father, Son, and Holy
Ghost are there confessedly and avowedly a part of

262 The Works of [1773

the belief, it does not appear necessary, after so
solemn a confession, to repeat again, in the Litany,
the Son and Holy Ghost, as that part of the service is
otherwise very prolix.

The Psalms being a collection of odes writ-
ten by different persons, it hath happened that
many of them are on the same subject and re-
peat the same sentiments — such as those that com-
plain of enemies and persecutors, call upon God for
protection, express a confidence therein, and thank
him for it when afforded. A very great part of
the book consists of repetitions of this kind, which
may therefore well bear abridgment. Other parts
are merely historical, repeating the mention of facts
more fully narrated in the preceding books, and
which, relating to the ancestors of the Jews, were
more interesting to them than to us. Other parts
are local, and allude to places of which we have
no knowledge, and therefore do not affect us.
Others are personal, relating to the particular cir-
cumstances of David or Solomon, as kings, and can
therefore seldom be rehearsed with any propriety by
private Christians. Others imprecate, in the most
bitter terms, the vengeance of God on our adver-
saries, contrary to the spirit of Christianity, which
commands us to love our enemies, and to pray for
those that hate us and despitefully use us. For these
reasons it is to be wished that the same liberty were
by the governors of our Church allowed to the min-
ister with regard to the reading Psalms, as is taken
by the clerk with regard to those that are to be
sung, in directing the parts that he may judge most

1773] Benjamin Franklin 263

suitable to be read at the time, from the present cir-
cumstances of the congregation, or the tenor of his
sermon, by saying, "Let us read'' such and such
parts of the Psalms named. Until this is done our
abridgment, it is hoped, will be found to contain
what may be most generally proper to be joined in
by an assembly of Christian people. The Psalms are
still apportioned to the days of the month, as hereto-
fore, though the several parts for each day are gen-
erally a full third shorter.

We humbly suppose the same service contained in
this abridgment might properly serve for all the
saint's days, fasts, and feasts, reading only the Epis-
tle and Gospel appropriated to each day of the
month.

The Communion is greatly abridged, on accoimt
of its great length ; nevertheless, it is hoped and be-
lieved that all those parts are retained which are
material and necessary.

Infant Baptism in Churches being performed dur-
ing divine service, would greatly add to the length of
that service, if it were not abridged. We have ven-
tured, therefore, to leave out the less material parts.

The Catechism, as a compendium of systematic
theology, which learned divines have written folio
volumes to explain, and which, therefore, it may be
presumed, they thought scarce intelligible without
such expositions, is, perhaps, taken altogether, not so
well adapted to the capacities of children as might be
wished. Only those plain answers, therefore, which
express our duty towards God, and our duty towards
our neighbor, are retained here. The rest is

264 The Works of [1773

recommended to their reading and serious con-
sideration, when more years shall have ripened their
understanding.

The Confirmation is here shortened.

The Commination, and all cursing of mankind, is,
we think, best omitted in this abridgment.

The form of solemnization of Matrimony is often
abbreviated by the officiating minister, at his dis-
cretion. We have selected what appear to us the
material parts, and which, we humbly hope, will be
deemed sxifficient.

The long prayers in the service for the Visitation
of the Sick seem not so proper, when the afflicted
person is very weak and in distress.

The Order for the Burial of the Dead is very
solemn and moving; nevertheless, to preserve the
health and lives of the living, it appeared to us that
this service ought particularly to be shortened. For
ntimbers standing in the open air with their hats off,
often in tempestuous weather, during the celebration,
its great length is not only inconvenient, but may be
dangerous to the attendants. We hope, therefore,
that our abridgment of it will be approved by the ra-
tional and prudent.

The Thanksgiving of women after childbirth being,
when read, part of the service of the day, we have
also, in some measure, abridged that.

Having thus stated very briefly our motives and
reasons, and our manner of proceeding in the prosecu-
tion of this work, we hope to be believed, when we
declare the rectitude of our intentions. We mean
not to lessen or prevent the practice of religion, but

1774] Benjamin Franklin 265

to honor and promote it. We acknowledge the ex-
cellency of our present Liturgy, and, though we have
shortened it, we have not presiimed to alter a word
in the remaining text ; not even to substitute who for
which in the Lord's Prayer, and elsewhere, although
it would be more correct. We respect the characters
of bishops and other dignitaries of our Church, and,
with regard to the inferior clergy, we wish that they
were more equally provided for, than by that odious
and vexatious as well as unjust method of gather-
ing tithes in kind, which creates animosities and liti-
gations, to the interruption of the good harmony
and respect which might otherwise subsist between
the rectors and their parishioners.

And thus, conscious of upright meaning, we submit
this abridgment to the serious consideration of the
prudent and dispassionate, and not to enthusiasts
and bigots ; being convinced in our own breasts, that
this shortened method, or one of the same kind bet-
ter executed, would further religion, increase unanim-
ity, and occasion a more frequent attendance on the
worship of God.

DLVI

TO THOMAS GUSHING

London, 5 January, 1774.

Sir: — I received the honor of yours dated Octo-
ber 28th, with the journals of the House and Mr.
Turner's election sermon. I waited on Lord Dart-
mouth, on his return to town, and learned that he

266 The Works of [1774

had presented to his Majesty a petition for the re-
moval of the governors. No subsequent step hac
yet been taken upon it, but his Lordship said the
king would probably refer the consideration of it to
a committee of council, and that I should have no-
tice to be heard in support of it. By the turn of his
conversation, though he was not explicit, I apprehend
the petition is not likely to be complied with, but we
shall see. His Lordship expressed, as usual, much
concern at the differences subsisting, and wished they
would be accommodated. Perhaps his good wishes
are all that is in his power.

The famous letters having unfortunately engaged
Mr. Temple and Mr. Whately in a duel, which, being
interrupted, would probably be renewed, I thought it
incumbent on me to prevent, as far as I could, any
further mischief, by declaring publicly the part I had
in the affair of those letters, and thereby at the same
time to rescue Mr, Temple's character from an unde-
served and groundless imputation, that bore hard
upon his honor, viz., that of taking the letters from
Mr. Whately, and in breach of confidence. I did this
with the more pleasure, as I believe him a sincere
friend to our country. I am told by some that it was
imprudent in me to avow the obtaining and sending
those letters, for that administration will resent it.
I have not much apprehension of this, but if it hap-
pens I must take the consequences. I only hope
it will not effect any friend on your side of the
water, for I have never mentioned to whom they were
transmitted.

A letter of mine to you, printed in one of the Bos-

1774] Benjamin Franklin 267

ton papers, has lately been reprinted here, to show,
as the publisher expresses it, that I am " one of the
most determined enemies of the welfare and prosperity
of Great Britain. " In the opinion of some, every one
who wishes the good of the whole empire may never-
theless be an enemy to the welfare of Great Britain, if
he does not wish its good exclusively of every other
part, and to see its welfare built on their servitude
and wretchedness. Such an enemy I certainly am.
But methinks it is wrong to print letters of mine at
Boston, which give occasion to these reflections.

I shall continue to do all I possibly can this winter
towards an accommodation of our differences; but
my hopes are small. Divine Providence first infatu-
ates the power it designs to ruin. With great esteem
and respect, I have the honor to be, sir, your most
obedient humble servant,

B. Franklin.

DLVII

TO WILLIAM FRANKLIN

London, 5 January, 1774.

Dear Son: — I received yours of October 29th,
and November 2d. Your December packet is not
yet arrived.

No insinuations of the kind you mention, concern-
ing Mr. Galloway, have reached me, and if they had,
it would have been without the least effect; as I
have always had the strongest reHance on the steadi-
ness of his friendship, and on the best grounds, the

268 The Works of [1774

knowledge I have of his integrity, and the often re-
peated disinterested services he has rendered me.
My return will interfere with nobody's interest or
influence in public affairs, as my intention is to de-
cline all interest in them, and every active part,
except where it can serve a friend, and to content
myself with communicating the knowledge of them
which my situation may have furnished me with, and
be content with giving my advice for the public bene-
fit, where it may be asked, or where I shall think it
may be attended to; for, being now about entering
my sixty-ninth year, and having lived so great a part
of my life to the public, it seems but fair that I
should be allowed to live the small remainder to my-
self and to my friends.

If the honorable office you mention will be agree-
able to him, I heartily wish it him. I only hope that,
if offered to him, he will insist on its being not dur-
ing pleasure, but quamdiu se bene gesserit.

Our friend Temple, as you will see by the papers,
has been engaged in a duel, about an affair in which
he had no concern. As the combat was interrupted,
and understood to be unfinished, I thought it incum-
bent on me to do what I could for preventing fur-
ther mischief, and so declared my having transmitted
the letters in question. This has drawn some cen-
sure upon myself; but, as I grow old, I grow less
concerned about censure, when I am satisfied that I
act rightly ; and I have the pleasure of having excul-
pated a friend, who lay undeservedly under an impu-
tation much to his dishonor.

I am now seriously preparing for my departure to

1774] Benjamin Franklin 269

America. I propose sending my luggage, books, in-
struments, etc., by All or Falconer, and taking my
passage to New York in one of the spring or summer
packets, partly for settling some business with the
post-office there, and partly that I may see you on
my way to Philadelphia, and learn thereby more
perfectly the state of affairs there. Your affectionate
father,

B. Franklin.

DLVIII

TO JOSIAH TUCKER

London, 12 February, 1774.

Reverend Sir: — Being informed by a friend that
some severe strictures on my conduct and character
had appeared in a new book published under your
respectable name, I purchased and read it. After
thanking you for those parts of it that are so instruc-
tive on points of great importance to the common
interests of mankind, permit me to complain that,
if by the description you give in pages 180, 181, of
a certain American patriot, whom you say you need
not name, you do, as is supposed, mean myself,
nothing can be further from the truth than your
assertion that I applied or used any interest, directly
or indirectly, to be appointed one of the stamp
officers for America. I certainly never expressed a
wish of the kind to any person whatever ; much less
was I, as you say, "more than ordinary assiduous on
this head. ' ' I have heretofore seen in the newspapers

270 The Works of [1774

insinuations of the same import, naming me ex-
pressly ; but, being without the name of the writer,
I took no notice of them. I know not whether they
were yours, or were only your authority for your
present charge; but now that they have the weight
of your name and dignified character, I am more
sensible of the injury; and I beg leave to request
that you will reconsider the grounds on which you
have ventured to publish an accusation that, if be-
lieved, must prejudice me extremely in the opinion
of good men, especially in my own country, whence
I was sent expressly to oppose the imposition of
that tax. If on such reconsideration and inquiry
you find, as I am persuaded you will, that you have
been imposed upon by false reports, or have too
lightly given credit to hearsays in a matter that con-
cerns another's reputation, I flatter myself that your
equity will induce you to do me justice by retracting
that accusation. In confidence of this, I am, with
great esteem, reverend sir, your most obedient and
most humble servant,

B. Franklin.

FROM JOSIAH TUCKER *

Monday, 21 February, 1774.

Sir: — The letter which you did me the honor to
send to Gloucester, I have just received in London,

' The writer of this letter was Dean of Gloucester and a man of
learning and talents, though somewhat freaky He was prone to
occupy his thoughts and pen with political and commercial questions,
which furnished Warburton, who was his Bishop, with a pretext for
saying that his Dean's trade was religion and religion his trade. He

1774] Benjamin Franklin 271

where I have resided many weeks, and am now re-
turning to Gloucester. On inquiry I find that I was
mistaken in some circumstances relating to your
conduct about the Stamp Act, though right as to the
substance. These errors shall be rectified the first op-
portunity. After having assured you that I am no
dealer in anonymous newspaper paragraphs, nor have
a connection with any who are, I have the honor to be,
sir, your humble servant.

Dr. Franklin.

J. Tucker.

TO JOSIAH tucker

London, 22 February, 1774.

Reverend Sir: — I received your favor of yester-
day. If the substance of what you have charged me
with is right, I can have but little concern about any
mistakes in the circumstances; whether they are rec-
tified or not will be immaterial. But, knowing the
substance to be wrong, and believing that you can
have r.o desire of continuing in an error prejudicial
to any man's reputation, I am persuaded you will not
take it amiss, if I request you to communicate to me
the particulars of the information you have received,
that I may have an opportunity of examining them ;
and I flatter myself I shall be able to satisfy you that

published an humble address and earnest appeal, in which he advised
the government to "let the wayward sisters — the colonies — go,"
thinking that, like the sheep in charge of little Bo-peep, they would
soon come back with their tails behind them.

In one of his papers he took some liberties with Franklin's name,
which led to the following correspondence.

272 The Works of [1774

they are groundless. I propose this method as more
decent than a public altercation, and suiting better
the respect due to your character. With great re-
gard, I have the honor to be, reverend sir, your most
obedient humble servant,

B. Franklin.

FROM J. TUCKER

Gloucester, 24 February, 1774.

Sir: — The request made in your last letter is so
very just and reasonable, that I shall comply with it
very readily. It has long appeared to me, that you
much exceeded the bounds of morality in the meth-
ods you pursued for the advancement of the sup-
posed interest of America. If it can be proved that I
have unjustly suspected you, I shall acknowledge mxy
error with as much satisfaction as you can have in
reading my recantation of it. As to the case more
immediately referred to in your letters, I was re-
peatedly informed that you had solicited the late Mr.
George Grenville for a place or agency in the distribu-
tion of stamps in America. From which circum-
stance I myself concluded that you had made interest
for it on your own account; whereas I am now in-
formed there are no positive proofs of your having
solicited to obtain such a place for yourself, but that
there is sufficient evidence still existing of your hav-
ing applied for it in favor of another person. If this
latter should prove to be the fact, as I am assured it
will, I am willing to suppose, from several expressions
in both your letters, that you will readily acknow-

17741 Benjamin Franklin 273

ledge that the difference in this case between your-
self and your friend is very immaterial to the general
merits of the question. But if you should have dis-
tinctions in this case which are above my compre-
hension, I shall content myself with observing that
your great abilities and happy discoveries deserve
universal regard; and that, as on these accounts I
respect and esteem you, so I have the honor to be, sir,
yotir very humble servant,

J. Tucker.
Dr. Franklin.

TO JOSIAH TUCKER

London, 26 February, 1774.

Reverend Sir: — I thank you for the frankness
with which you have communicated to me the par-
ticulars of the information you had received, relating
to my supposed application to Mr. Grenville for a
place in the American stamp office. As I deny that
either your former or later informations are true, it
seems incumbent on me, for your satisfaction, to re-
late all the circumstances fairly to you, that could
possibly give rise to such mistakes.

Some days after the Stamp Act was passed, to
which I had given all the opposition I could with
Mr. Grenville, I received a note from Mr. Whately,
his secretary, desiring to see me the next morning.
I waited upon him accordingly, and found with him
several other colony agents. He acquainted us that
Mr. Grenville was desirous to make the execution of
the act as little inconvenient and disagreeable to the

274 The Works of [1774

Americans as possible; and therefore did not think
of sending stamp officers from hence, but wished to
have discreet and reputable persons appointed in each
province from among the inhabitants, such as would
be acceptable to them ; for, as they were to pay the
tax, he thought strangers should not have the emolu-
ments. Mr. Whately therefore wished us to name
for our respective colonies, informing us that Mr.
Granville would be obliged to us for pointing out to
him honest and responsible men, and would pay great
regard to our nominations. By this plausible and
apparently candid declaration we were drawn in to
nominate ; and I named for our province Mr. Hughes,
saying, at the same time, that I knew not whether
he would accept of it, but, if he did, I was sure he
would execute the office faithfully. I soon after had
notice of his appointment. We none of us, I believe,
foresaw or imagined that this compliance with the
request of the minister would or could have been
called an application of ours, and adduced as a proof
of our approbation of the act we had been opposing,
otherwise I think few of us would have named at all ;
I am sure I should not. This, I assure you, and can
prove to you by living evidence, is a true account of
the transaction in question, which, if you compare
with that you have been induced to give of it in
your book, I am persuaded you will see a difference
that is far from being "a distinction above your
comprehension. ' '

Permit me further to remark that your expression
of there being " no positive proofs of my having solicit-
ed to obtain such a place for myself,'' implies that

1774] Benjamin Franklin 275

there are nevertheless some circumstantial proofs
sufficient at least to support a suspicion. The latter
part, however, of the same sentence, which says,
" there is sufficient evidence still existing of my hav-
ing applied for it in favor of another person," must, I
apprehend, if credited, destroy that suspicion, and be
considered as positive proof of the contrary ; for, if I
had interest enough with Mr. Grenville to obtain that
place for another, is it likely that it would have been
refused me, had I asked it for myself?

There is another circumstance, which I would offer
to your candid consideration. You describe me as
"changing sides, and appearing at the bar of the
House of Commons to cry down the very measure I
had espoused, and direct the storm that was falling
upon that minister." As this must have been after
my supposed solicitation of the favor for myself or
my friend, and as Mr. Grenville and Mr. Whately
were both in the House at the time, and both asked
me questions, can it be conceived that, offended as
they must have been with such a conduct in me,
neither of them should put me in mind of this my
sudden changing of sides, or remark it to the House,
or reproach me with it, or require my reasons for it?
And yet all the members then present know that not
a syllable of the kind fell from either of them, or from
any of their party.

I persuade myself by this time you begin to sus-
pect you may have been misled by your informers.
I do not ask who they are, because I do not wish to
have particular motives for disliking people who in
general may deserve my respect. They too may

276 The Works of [1774

have drawn consequences beyond the information
they received from others, and, hearing the office had
been given to a person of my nomination, might as
naturally suppose / had solicited it, as Dr. Tucker,
hearing that I had solicited it, might "conclude'' it
was for myself.

I desire you to believe that I take kindly, as I
ought, your freely mentioning to me " that it has long
appeared to you that I much exceeded the bounds of
morality in the methods I pursued for the advance-
ment of the supposed interests of America." I am
sensible there is a good deal of truth in the adage
that our sins and our debts are always more than we
take them to be; and though I cannot at present, on
examination of my conscience, charge myself with
any immorality of that kind, it becomes me to sus-
pect that what has long appeared to you may have
some foundation. You are so good as to add that,
" if it can be proved you have im justly suspected me,
you shall have a satisfaction in acknowledging the
error." It is often a hard thing to prove that suspi-
cions are unjust, even when we know what they are ;
and harder, when we are unacquainted with them. I
must presume, therefore, that, in mentioning them,
you had an intention of communicating the grounds
of them to me, if I should request it, which I now do,
and, I assure you, with a sincere desire and design of
amending what you may show me to have been wrong
in my conduct, and to thank you for the admonition.
In your writings I appear a bad man; but, if I am
such, and you can thus help me to become in real-
ity a good one, I shall esteem it more than a suf-

'774] Benjamin Franklin 277

ficient reparation to, reverend sir, your most obedient
humble servant, ^uient

pi B. Franklin/

fr.,t I' '7^' '''' ^""^"^^'^ ^^^ y^^ been received
to the above letter. ^^ivcu

B. F.
DLIX

TO THOMAS GUSHING
Q London, 15 February, 1774

biR:-r wrote a line to you by the last packet, just
to aequamt you there had been a hearing on our
petition I shall now give you the histor^ of it as
succinctly as I can.

We had long imagined that the king would have
considered that petition, as he had done the preced!

r dtabiht^r"^;.""'' '' "'"^ "°' P^^y P'ln-hments
th. «th °" ^^^ governors. But on Saturday,

from the clerk of the council that the Lords of the
Commrttee for Plantation Affairs would, on the Tues-
day following at twelve, meet at the Cockpit to take
mto consideration the petition referred to Vem t:
his Majesty, and that my attendance was required

meetW tw' ' '°-1:- ^"-^"^ ^^-^^ -q-sting a
meeting, that we might consult upon it. He was

not at his chambers, but my note was left f or hTm

for fairness and magnanMty ' ""■*" ""P^""- "^ 'character

278 The Works of [1774

Sunday morning I went to Mr. BoUan and communi-
cated the affair to him. He had received a similar
notice. We considered whether it was best to em-
ploy other counsel, since Mr. Lee, he said, could not
be admitted as such, not being yet called to the bar.
He thought it not advisable. He had sometimes
done it in colony cases and found lawyers of little
service. Those who are eminent, and hope to rise
in their profession, are unwilling to offend the court,
and its disposition on this occasion was well known.
But he would move to be heard in behalf of the
council of the province, and thence take occasion to
support the petition himself.

I went and sent again to Mr. Lee's chambers in
the Temple, but could not meet with him, and it was
not till near the end of the week that I learnt he was
at Bath. On Monday, very late in the afternoon, I
received another notice, that Mr. Mauduit, agent for
the governor and lieutenant-governor, had asked and
obtained leave to be heard by counsel on the morrow
in their behalf. This very short notice seemed in-
tended to surprise us. On Tuesday we attended at
the Cockpit, and, the petition being read, I was
called upon for what I had to offer in support of it,
when, as had been concerted between us, I ac-
quainted their Lordships that Mr. Bollan, then pre-
sent, in pursuance of their notice, would speak to it.

He came forward and began to speak ; but objec-
tion was immediately made by some of the Lords,
that he, being only agent for the council, which was
not a party to this petition, could not properly be
heard on it. He, however, repeatedly endeavored to

1774] Benjamin Franklin 279

obtain leave to speak, but without effect ; they would
scarce hear out a sentence, and finally set him aside.
I then said that, with the petition of the House
of Representatives, I had received their resolutions
which preceded it, and a copy of the letters on which
those resolutions were founded, which I would lay
before their Lordships in support of the petition.

The resolutions were accordingly read; but, when
the letters were taken up, Mr. Wedderburn, the
solicitor-general, brought there as counsel for the
governors, began to object, and inquire how they
were authenticated, as did also some of the Lords.
I said the authentications were annexed. They
wanted to know the nature of them. I said that
would appear when they were read, and prayed they
would hear them. Lord Chief -Justice De Grey
asked whom the letters were directed to ; and, taking
them in his hand, observed there was no address pre-
fixed to any of them. I said that, though it did not
appear to whom they were directed, it appeared who
had written them ; their names were subscribed ; the
originals had been shown to the gentlemen them-
selves, and they had not denied their handwriting;
and the testifications annexed proved these to be true
copies.

With difficulty I obtained leave to have the authen-
tications read; and the solicitor-general proceeding
to make observations as counsel for the governors, I
said to their Lordships that it was some surprise to
me to find counsel employed against the petition;
that I had no notice of that intention till late in the
preceding day; that I had not purposed troubling

28o The Works of [1774

their Lordships with the hearing of counsel, because
I did not conceive that any thing could possibly arise
out of the petition, any point of law or of right, that
might require the discussion of lawyers ; that I appre-
hended this matter before their Lordships was rather
a question of civil or political prudence, whether, on
the state of the fact that the governors had lost all
trust and confidence with the people, and become
universally obnoxious, it would be for the interest of
his Majesty's service to continue them in those sta-
tions in that province ; that I conceived this to be a
question of which their Lordships were already per-
fect judges, and could receive no assistance in it from
the arguments of counsel; but, if counsel was to be
heard on the other side, I must then request leave to
bring coimsel in behalf of the Assembly, and that
their Lordships would be pleased to appoint a further
day for the hearing, to give time for preparing the
counsel.

Mr. Mauduit was then asked if he would waive the
leave he had, of being heard by counsel, that their
Lordships might proceed immediately to consider the
petition. He said he was requested by the govern-
ors to defend them, and they had promised to defray
the expense, by which he understood that they
expected he should employ counsel ; and then, mak-
ing me some compliments, as if of superior abilities,
said he should not against me, hazard the defence of
his friends by taking it upon himself. I said I had
intended merely to lay the papers before their Lord-
ships, without making a single comment on them.
But this did not satisfy; he chose to be heard by

1774] Benjamin Franklin 281

counsel. So finally I had leave to be heard by coun-
sel also in behalf of the petition. The solicitor-
general, finding his cavils against the admission of
the letters were not supportable, at last said that,
to save their Lordships' time, he would admit the
copies to be true transcripts of the originals, but he
should reserve to himself a right, when the matter
came on again, of asking certain questions, such as
how the Assembly came into possession of them,
through what hands, and by what means they were
procured. "Certainly," replied Lord Chief -Justice
De Grey, somewhat austerely, "and to whom they
were directed; for the perfect understanding of the
passages may depend on that and other such circimi-
stances. We can receive no charge against a man
founded on letters directed to nobody, and perhaps
received by nobody. The laws of this country have
no such practice." Lord President, near whom I
stood, as I was putting up my papers, asked me if
I intended to answer such questions. In that, I
said, I shall take counsel. The day appointed for
the hearing was the 29th of January.

Several friends now came to me and advised me to
retain Mr. Dunning, formerly solicitor-general, and
very able in his profession. I wished first to consult
with Mr. Lee, supposing he might rather be for his
friend, Mr. Sergeant Glynn. I found Mr. Lee was
expected in town about the latter end of the week,
and thought to wait his coming; in the meantime I
was urged to take Mr. Dimning's advice as to my own
conduct if such questions should be asked me. I did
so, and he was clear that I was not and could not be

282 The Works of [1774

obliged to answer them if I did not choose it, which
I informed him was the case, being under a promise
not to divulge from whom I received the letters. He
said he would attend, however, if I desired it, and
object in my behalf to their putting such questions.

A report now prevailed through the town that I
had been grossly abused by the solicitor-general at
the council board. But this was premature. He
had only intended it, and mentioned that intention.
I heard, too, from all quarters, that the ministry and
all the courtiers were highly enraged against me for
transmitting those letters. I was called an incendi-
ary, and the papers were filled with invectives against
me. Hints were given me that there were some
thoughts of apprehending me, seizing my papers, and
sending me to Newgate. I was well informed that
a resolution was taken to deprive me of my place ; it
was only thought best to defer it till after the hear-
ing, I suppose, because I was there to be so black-
ened that nobody should think it injustice. Many
knew, too, how the petition was to be treated, and I
was told, even before the first hearing, that it was to
be rejected with some epithets, the Assembly to be
censured, and some honor done the governors. How
this could be known one cannot say. It might be
only conjecture.

The transactions relating to the tea had increased
and strengthened the torrent of clamor against us.
No one had the least expectation of success to the
petition, and, though I had asked leave to use coun-
sel, I was half inclined to waive it, and save you the
expense, but Mr. Bollan was now strongly for it, as

1774] Benjamin Franklin 283

they had refused to hear him. And, though fortified
by his opinion, as he had long experience in your
affairs, I would at first have ventured to deviate
from the instructions you sent me in that particular,
supposing you to allow some discretionary liberty
to your agents; yet, now that he urged it as neces-
sary, I employed a solicitor and furnished him with
what materials I could for framing a brief; and Mr.
Lee, coming to town, entered heartily into the busi-
ness, and undertook to engage Sergeant Glynn, who
would readily have served us, but being in a fit of
the gout, which made his attendance uncertain, the
solicitor retained Mr. Dimning and Mr. John Lee,
another able man of the profession.

While my mind was taken up with this business, I
was harassed with a subpoena from the chancellor to
attend his court the next day, at the suit of Mr. Wil-
liam Whately concerning the letters. This man was
under personal obligations to me, such as would have
made it base in him to commence such a suit of his
own motion against me, without any previous notice,
claim, or demand; but if he was capable of doing
it at the instance of the ministry, whose banker
he is, for some pension money, he must be still
baser.

The briefs being prepared and perused by our coun-
sel, we had a consultation at Mr. Dunning 's chambers
in Lincoln's Inn. I introduced Mr. Arthur Lee as my
friend and successor in the agency. The brief, as you
will see by a copy I send you, pointed out the pas-
sages of the letters which were applicable in support
of the particular charges contained in the resolutions

284 The Works of [1774

and petition. But the counsel observed, we wanted
evidence to prove those passages false; the counsel
on the other side would say, they were true represen-
tations of the state of the country; and, as to the
political reflections of the writers, and their sentiments
of government, their aims to extend and enforce
the power of Parliament and diminish the privileges
of their countrymen, though these might appear in
the letters and need no other proof, yet they would
never be considered here as offences, but as virtues
and merits. The counsel therefore thought it would
answer no good end to insist on those particulars;
and that it was more advisable to state as facts the
general discontent of the people, that the governors
had lost all credit with them, and were become odious
etc. ; facts of which the petition was itself full proof,
because otherwise it could not have existed ; and then
show that it must in such a situation be necessary
for his Majesty's service, as well as the peace of the
province, to remove them. By this opinion, great
part of the brief became unnecessary.

Notwithstanding the intimations I had received, I
could not believe that the solicitor-general would be
permitted to wander from the question before their
Lordships into a new case, the accusation of another
person for another matter, not cognizable before
them, who could not expect to be there so accused,
and therefore could not be prepared for his defence.
And yet all this happened, and in all probability was
preconcerted ; for all the courtiers were invited, as to
an entertainment, and there never was such an ap-
pearance of privy councillors on any occasion, not less

1774] Benjamin Franklin 285

than thirty-five, besides an immense crowd of other
auditors.

The hearing began by reading my letter to Lord
Dartmouth, enclosing the petition, then the petition
itself, the resolves, and lastly the letters, the solicitor-
general making no objections, nor asking any of the
questions he had talked of at the preceding board.
Our counsel then opened the matter, upon their gen-
eral plan, and acquitted themselves very handsomely ;
only Mr. Dunning, having a disorder on his lungs that
weakened his voice exceedingly, was not so perfectly
heard as one could have wished. The solicitor-gen-
eral then went into what he called a history of the
province for the last ten years, and bestowed plenty
of abuse upon it, mingled with encomium on the gov-
ernors. But the favorite part of his discourse was
levelled at your agent, who stood there the butt of
his invective ribaldry for near an hour, not a single
Lord adverting to the impropriety and indecency of
treating a public messenger in so ignominious a man-
ner, who was present only as the person delivering
your petition, with the consideration of which, no
part of his conduct had any concern. If he had done
a wrong in obtaining and transmitting the letters,
that was not the tribunal where he was to be accused
and tried. The cause was already before the chan-
cellor. Not one of their Lordships checked and re-
called the orator to the business before them, but, on
the contrary, a very few excepted, they seemed to
enjoy highly the entertainment, and frequently burst
out in loud applauses. This part of his speech was
thought so good, that they have since printed it, in

286 The Works of [1774

order to defame me everywhere, and particularly to
destroy my reputation on your side of the water ; but
the grosser parts of the abuse are omitted, appearing,
I suppose, in their own eyes, too foul to be seen on
paper; so that the speech, compared to what it was,
is now perfectly decent. I send you one of the copies.
My friends advise me to write an answer, which I
purpose immediately.

The reply of Mr. Dunning concluded. Being very
ill, and much incommoded by standing so long, his
voice was so feeble as to be scarce audible. What
little I heard was very well said, but appeared to have
little effect.

Their Lordships' Report, which I send you, is
dated the same day. It contains a severe censure, as
you will see, on the petition and the petitioners ; and,
as I think, a very unfair conclusion from my silence,
that the charge of surreptitiously obtaining the letters
was a true one; though the solicitor, as appears in
the printed speech, had acquainted them that the
matter was before the chancellor; and my counsel
had stated the impropriety of my answering there to
charges then trying in another court. In truth I
came by them honorably, and my intention in send-
ing them was virtuous, if an endeavor to lessen the
breach between two states of the same empire be
such, by showing that the injuries complained of by
one of them did not proceed from the other, but
from traitors among themselves.'

It may be supposed that I am very angry on this

I For other particulars relating to this affair, see infra, pp. 370-
411.

1774] Benjamin Franklin 287

occasion, and therefore I did purpose to add no re-
flections of mine on the treatment the Assembly and
their agent have received, lest they should be thought
the effects of resentment and a desire of exasperating.
But, indeed, what I feel on my own account is half
lost in what I feel for the public. When I see that
all petitions and complaints of grievances are so odi-
ous to government, that even the mere pipe which
conveys them becomes obnoxious, I am at a loss to
know how peace and union are to be maintained or
restored between the different parts of the empire.
Grievances cannot be redressed unless they are
known ; and they cannot be known but through com-
plaints and petitions. If these are deemed affronts,
and the messengers punished as offenders, who will
henceforth send petitions? And who will dehver
them ? It has been thought a dangerous thing in any
state to stop up the vent of griefs. Wise govern-
ments have therefore generally received petitions
with some indulgence, even when but slightly
founded. Those who think themselves injured by
their rulers are sometimes, by a mild and prudent
answer, convinced of their error. But where com-
plaining is a crime, hope becomes despair.

The day following I received a written notice from
the secretary of the general post-office, that his
Majesty's postmaster-general found it necessary to
dismiss me from my office of deputy postmaster-
general in North America. The expression was well
chosen, for in truth they were under a necessity of
doing it ; it was not their own inclination ; they had
no fault to find with my conduct in the office ; they

288 The Works of [1774

knew my merit in it, and that if it was now an office
of value it had become such chiefly through my care
and good management; that it was worth nothing
when given to me ; it would not then pay the salary
allowed me, and unless it did I was not to expect it;
and that it now produces near three thousand pounds
a year clear to the treasury here. They had besides a
personal regard for me. But as the post-offices in all
the principal towns are growing daily more and more
valuable by the increase of correspondence, the offi-
cers being paid commissions instead of salaries, the
ministers seem to intend, by directing me to be dis-
placed on this occasion, to hold out to them all an
example, that if they are not corrupted by their office
to promote the measures of administration, though
against the interests and rights of the colonies, they
must not expect to be continued. This is the first
act for extending the influence of government in this
branch. But as orders have been some time since
given to the American postmaster-general, who used
to have the disposition of all places imder him, not
to fill vacancies of value till notice of such vacancies
had been sent hither and instructions thereupon
received from hence, it is plain that such influence is
to be a part of the system, and probable that those
vacancies will for the future be filled by officers from
this country. How safe the correspondence of your
Assembly committees along the continent will be
through the hands of such officers may now be worth
consideration, especially as the post-office act of Par-
liament allows a postmaster to open letters if war-
ranted so to do by the order of a secretary of state,

1774] Benjamin Franklin 289

and every provincial secretary may be deemed a
secretary of state in his own province.

It is not yet known what steps will be taken by
government with regard to the colonies, or to our
province in particular. But as inquiries are making
of all who come from thence concerning the late riot
and the meetings that preceded it, and who were
speakers and movers at these meetings, I suspect
there is some intention of seizing persons, and per-
haps of sending them hither. But of this I have no
certainty. No motion has yet been made in the
House of Commons concerning our affairs, and that
made in the House of Lords was withdrawn for the
present. It is not likely, however, that the session
will pass over without some proceeding relating to
us, though perhaps it is not yet settled what the
measures shall be.

With my best wishes for the prosperity of the
province, I have the honor to be, sir, etc.,

B. Franklin.

While acting as agent for the colonies in London, cer-
tain letters were placed in Franklin's hands, which had
been written in Boston by Governor Hutchinson, Lieu-
tenant-Governor Oliver, Charles Paxton, Nathaniel
Rogers, and G. Rome, to Thomas Whately, at the time
a member of Parliament and private secretary to Mr.
Grenville, one of the cabinet. After Mr. Whately's death,
these letters were handed, by some person still unknown^
to Dr. Franklin, with permission to show them to some
of his correspondents in Boston, but upon the conditions
that they were not to be printed, that no copies should

VOL, VI.— 10. ^

ago The Works of [1774

be taken of them; that they should be shown only to a
few leading people of the government; and that they
should be carefully returned. The Doctor, finding they
were in no sense private letters, but were from an official
source and designed and calculated to exert an important
influence upon the government, to the manifest prejudice
of the colonies, sent them to Thomas Gushing, the Speaker
of the House of Representatives of Massachusetts, who
exhibited them to a few confidential friends.

The sentiments expressed in them were about as im-
palatable on this side of the Atlantic at that time as any
thing they could have written. "There must be an
abridgment," Hutchinson wrote, "of what are called
English liberties; for a colony cannot enjoy all the lib-
erty of a parent state." He recommended not only
coercive measures, but also a material change in the
system of chartered government. He expressed "hopes
that provisions for dissolving commercial combinations,
and for inflicting penalties upon those who do not re-
noimce them, would be made by Parliament."

These communications were deemed to be of such a
treacherous character, the principal, if not all the writers,
being native-bom Americans, that no efforts on the part
of Mr. Gushing were sufficient to prevent their being
made public. As Hutchinson afterwards told the king,
"the people abroad compelled their publication, or would
not be satisfied without it." The Massachusetts legisla-
ture promptly sent to Franklin a petition addressed to
the king for the removal of the governor and lieutenant-
governor. The presentation of this petition before the
council placed Franklin in what was probably the most
painful and embarrassing position of his life. Franklin's
account of the foul treatment which he received at the
hands of the privy council, as set forth in his correspond-

1774] Benjamin Franklin 291

ence, is confirmed by witnesses interested in extenuating
the conduct of the council to the utmost.

The report of the "Examination" here given, was
made by Mr. Israel Mauduit, the counsel for Hutchinson
and his friends. He was the petitioner against the ap-
plication of the Massachusetts Assembly to have them
recalled.

Examination of Dr. Franklin at the Council-Chamber,
January II, 1774. Present: Lord President, the Sec-
retaries of State, and many other Lords.

Dr. Franklin's letter and the address, Mr. Pownall's
letter, and Mr. Mauduit's petition were read.

Mr. Wedderburn. — The address mentions certain pa-
pers ; I could wish to be informed what are those papers.

Dr. Franklin. — They are the letters of Mr. Hutchinson
and Mr. Oliver.

Court. — Have you brought them?

Dr. Franklin. — No; but here are attested copies.

Court. — Do you mean to found a charge upon them?
If you do, you must produce the letters.

Dr. Franklin. — These copies are attested by several
gentlemen at Boston, and a notary public.

Mr. Wedderburn. — My Lords, we shall not take advan-
tage of any imperfection in the proof. We admit that
the letters are Mr. Hutchinson's and Mr. Oliver's hand-
writing ; reserving to ourselves the right of inquiring how
they were obtained.

Dr. Franklin. — I did not expect that counsel would
have been employed on this occasion.

Court. — Had you not notice sent you of Mr. Mauduit's
having petitioned to be heard by counsel, on behalf of
the governor and lieutenant-governor?

Dr. Franklin. — I did receive such notice; but I thought
this had been a matter of politics, not of law, and have
not brought my counsel.

292 The Works of [1774

Court. — Where a charge is brought, the parties have a
right to be heard by counsel or not, as they choose.

Mr. Mauduit. — My Lords, I am not a native of that
country, as these gentlemen are. I know well Dr. Frank-
lin's abilities, and wish to put the defence of my friends
upon a parity with the attack; he will not, therefore,
wonder that I choose to appear before your Lordships
with the assistance of coimsel. My friends, in their let-
ters to me, have desired (if any proceedings, as they say,
should be had upon this address) that they may have a
hearing in their own justification, that their innocence
may be fully cleared, and their honor vindicated; and
have made provision accordingly. I do not think my-
self at liberty, therefore, to give up the assistance of my
counsel, in defending them against this unjust accusation.

Court. — Dr. Franklin may have the assistance of coun-
sel, or go on without it, as he shall choose.

Dr. Franklin. — I desire to have counsel.

Court. — What time do you want?

Dr. Franklin. — Three weeks.

Ordered, that the further proceedings be on Saturday,
29th instant.

The Privy Council met on the day appointed; and
Mr. Vaughan tells us: "It was in consequence of the
letter which Dr. Franklin wrote about the letters to the
Public Advertiser after the duel, that Mr. Wedderbum
ventured to make the most odious personal allusions."
Mr. Mauduit, he continues, has prudently omitted part
of them in his account of the proceedings before the Privy
Council. They are given here altogether, however (as
well as they could be collected), and the nature of the
censures passed in English upon Dr. Franklin's character.

"The letters could not have come to Dr. Franklin,"
said Mr. Wedderbum "by fair means. The writers did
not give them to him; nor yet did the deceased corres-

1774] Benjamin Franklin 293

pondent, who from our intimacy would otherwise have
told me of it. Nothing, then, will acquit Dr. Franklin
of the charge of obtaining them by fraudulent or corrupt
means, for the most malignant of purposes, unless he
stole them from the person who stole them. This argu-
ment is irrefragable.

" I hope, my Lords, you will mark and brand the man,
for the honor of this country, of Europe, and of mankind.
Private correspondence has hitherto been held sacred, in
times of the greatest party rage, not only in politics but
religion." "He has forfeited all the respect of societies
and of men. Into what companies will he hereafter go
with an unembarrassed face, or the honest intrepidity of
virtue? Men will watch him with a jealous eye; they
will hide their papers from him, and lock up their escri-
toires. He will henceforth esteem it a libel to be called
a man of letters; homo trium ^ Uterarum!

" But he not only took away the letters from one
brother, but kept himself concealed till he nearly occa-
sioned the murder of the other. It is impossible to read
his account, expressive of the coolest and most deliberate
malice, without horror." [Here he read the letter dated
December 25, 1773 ; Dr. Franklin being all the time present.']
"Amidst these tragical events, of one person nearly mur-
dered, of another answerable for the issue, of a worthy
governor hurt in his dearest interests, the fate of America
in suspense; here is a man who, with the utmost insen-
sibility of remorse, stands up and avows himself the
author of all. I can compare it only to Zanga, in Dr.
Yoting's Revenge.

" ' Know then 't was I ;

I forged the letter, I disposed the picture ;
I hated, I despised, and I destroy,' "

' That is, FUR, or thief.

294 The Works of [1774

I ask, my Lords, whether the revengeful temper attribut-
ed, by poetic fiction only, to the bloody African, is
not surpassed by the coolness and apathy of the wily
American?"

Mr. Vaughan adds: "Unfortunately for Mr. Wedder-
bum, the events of the war did not correspond with his
systems. Unfortunately, too, for his 'irrefragable argu-
ment,' Dr. Franklin afterwards took an oath in chancery
that, at the time that he transmitted the letters, he was
ignorant of the party to whom they had been addressed,
having himself received them from a third person, and
for the express purpose of their being conveyed to Amer-
ica. Unfortunately, also, for Mr. Wedderburn's ' worthy
governor,' that governor himself, before the arrival of Dr.
Franklin's packet in Boston, sent over one of Dr. Frank-
lin's own 'private' letters to England, expressing some
little coyness, indeed, upon the occasion, but desiring
secrecy, lest he should be prevented from procuring more
useful intelligence from the same source. Whether Mr.
Wedderbum, in his speech, intended to draw a particular
case and portraiture, for the purpose only of injuring Dr.
Franklin, or meant that his language and epithets should
apply generally to all, whether friends or foes, whose
practice should be foimd similar to it, is a matter that
must be left to be adjusted between Governor Hutchinson
and Mr. Wedderburn.

" It was not singular, perhaps, that, as a man of honor,
Dr. Franklin should surrender his name to public scrutiny
in order to prevent mischief to others, and yet not betray
his coadjutor (even to the present moment) to relieve
his own fame from the severest obloquy; but perhaps it
belonged to few besides Dr. Franklin, to possess mild-
ness and magnanimity enough, to refrain from intem-
perate expressions and measures against Mr. Wedderbum
and his supporters, after all that had passed."

1774] Benjamin Franklin 295

Dr. Priestley gave the following accotint of Wedder-
bum's speech, in a communication to the editor of the
Monthly Magazine, dated at Northumberiand, November
10, 1802 :

"On the morning of the day on which the cause was
to be heard, I met Mr. Burke in Parliament Street, ac-
companied by Dr. Douglas, afterwards Bishop of Carlisle ;
and after introducing us to each other, as men of letters,
he asked me whither I was going ; I said I could tell him
whither I wished to go. He then asked me where that
was ; I said to the Privy Coimcil, but that I was afraid I
could not get admission. He then desired me to go
along with him. Accordingly I did; but, when we got
to the anteroom, we found it quite filled with persons as
desirous of getting admission as ourselves. Seeing this,
I said we should never get through the crowd. He said,
'Give me your arm,' and, locking it fast in his, he soon
made his way to the door of the Privy Council. I then
said: 'Mr. Burke, you are an excellent leader'; he re-
plied: ' I wish other persons thought so too.'

"After waiting a short time, the door of the Privy
Cotmcil opened, and we entered the first; when Mr.
Burke took his stand behind the first chair next to
the president, and I behind that next to his. When the
business was opened, it was sufficiently evident, from the
speech of Mr. Wedderbum, who was counsel for the gov-
ernor, that the real object of the court was to insult Dr.
Franklin. All this time, he stood in a comer of the room,
not far from me, without the least apparent emotion.

"Mr. Dunning, who was the leading counsel on the
part of the colony, was so hoarse that he could hardly
make himself heard; and Mr. Lee, who was the second,
spoke but feebly in reply ; so that Mr. Wedderbum had
a complete triumph. At the sallies of his sarcastic wit,
all the members of the covincil, the president himself

296 The Works of [1774

(Lord Gower) not excepted, frequently laughed outright.
No person belonging to the council behaved with decent
gravity, except Lord North, who, coming late, took his
stand behind the chair opposite to me.

"When the business was over, Dr. Franklin, in going
out, took me by the hand in a manner that indicated
some feeling. I soon followed him, and, going through
the anteroom, saw Mr. Wedderbum there, surrounded by
a circle of his friends and admirers. Being known to him,
he stepped forward, as if to speak to me; but I turned
aside, and made what haste I could out of the place.

"The next morning, I breakfasted with the Doctor,
when he said he had never before been so sensible of the
power of a good conscience; for that if he had not con-
sidered the thing for which he had been so much insulted,
as one of the best actions of his life, and what he should
certainly do again in the same circumstances, he could
not have supported it. He was accused of clandestinely
procuring certain letters, containing complaints against
the governor, and sending them to America, with a view
to excite their animosity against him, and thus to em-
broil the two countries; but he assured me, that he did
not even know that such letters existed, until they were
brought to him as agent for the colony, in order to be
sent to his constituents ; and the cover of the letters, on
which the direction had been written, being lost, he only
guessed at the person to whom they were addressed, by
the contents.

"That Dr. Franklin, notwithstanding he did not show
it at the time, was much impressed by the business of the
Privy Council, appeared from this circumstance. When
he attended there, he was dressed in a suit of Manchester
velvet ; and Silas Deane told me that, when they met at
Paris to sign the treaty between France and America, he
purposely put on that suit."

1774] Benjamin Franklin 297

In reference to this account, after it appeared in print,
the following particulars were communicated to William
Temple Franklin by Dr. Bancroft :

" Dr. Franklin did not ' stand in a comer of the room,' "
says Dr. Bancroft, who was for many years one of Dr.
Franklin's intimate friends, and was present during the
whole transaction before the Privy Council; "he stood
close to the fireplace, on that side which was at the right
hand of those who were looking toward the fire ; in front
of which, though at some distance, the members of the
Privy Council were seated at a table. I obtained a place
on the opposite side of the fireplace, a little farther from
the fire; but Dr. Franklin's face was directed towards
me, and I had a full, uninterrupted view of it, and his
person, during the whole time in which Mr. Wedderbum
spoke. The Doctor was dressed in a full-dress suit of
spotted Manchester velvet, and stood conspicuously erect,
without the smallest movement of any part of his body,
The muscles of his face had been previously composed,
so as to afford a placid, tranquil expression of coimten-
ance, and he did not suffer the slightest alteration of it
to appear during the continuance of the speech, in which
he was so harshly and improperly treated. In short, to
quote the words which he employed concerning himself
on another occasion, he kept his ' countenance as immov-
able as if his features had been made of wood.' This was
late on Saturday afternoon. I called on him in Craven
Street at an early hour on Monday morning, and, im-
mediately after the usual salutation, he put into my
hands a letter which had just been delivered to him. It
was from the postmaster-general, and informed him that
the king had no further occasion for his (Dr. Franklin's)
services, as deputy postmaster-general in America.

" It is a fact that he, as Dr. Priestley mentions, signed
the treaties of commerce and eventual alliance with

298 The Works of [1774

France, in the clothes which he had worn at the Cockpit,
when the preceding transaction occurred. It had been
intended, as you may recollect, that these treaties should
be signed on the evening of Thursday, the 5th of February,
and when Dr. Franklin had dressed himself for the day,
I observed that he wore the suit in question; which I
thought the more extraordinary, as it had been laid aside
for many months. This I noticed to Mr. Deane; and
soon after, when a messenger came from Versailles, with
a letter from Mr. Gerard, the French plenipotentiary,
stating that he was so unwell, from a cold, that he wish
to defer coming to Paris to sign the treaties until the
next evening, I said to Mr. Deane, ' Let us see whether
the Doctor will wear the same suit of clothes to-morrow ;
if he does, I shall suspect that he is influenced by a recol-
lection of the treatment which he received at the Cock-
pit.' The morrow came, and the same clothes were again
worn, and the treaties signed. After which these clothes
were laid aside, and, so far as my knowledge extends,
never worn afterwards. I once intimated to Dr. Frank-
lin the suspicion which his wearing these clothes on that
occasion had excited in my mind, when he smiled, with-
out telling me whether it was well or ill founded. I
have heard him sometimes say that he was not insen-
sible to injuries, but that he never put himself to any
trouble or inconvenience to retaliate."

The profound sensation produced by the publication
of the Hutchinson letters, and the unmerited obloquy
which his part in the matter brought upon Dr. Franklin,
decided him, before leaving England, to prepare the de-
tailed account of his connection with these letters, which
will be found farther on. He does not reveal the source
from which the letters came to him, but Mr. C. Francis
Adams, upon the authority of his grandfather, President
John Adams, says: "Scarcely a doubt can remain that

1774] Benjamin Franklin 299

Sir John Temple was the man who procured the Hutchin-
son letters and had them delivered to Franklin." ' This
account was not published till it appeared in William
Temple Franklm's edition of his grandfather's works, in
181 7. Franklin probably found it would do no good to
make any such defence in the fury of the storm; and
before it had subsided, he had left England, the rupture
between the coimtries had become complete, and the
press of England was closed against any thing he might
write in vindication of himself or the colonies, xmtil after
time and events had given him a far more effective vin-
dication than any he could have penned. '

From whom Franklin really received these letters, is
one of those historical puzzles which has exercised the
ingenuity of eminent scholars on both sides of the Atlan-
tic. The most satisfactory theory that has yet beer- pre-
sented may be found in a minute furnished by Mr.
Bancroft to Mr. Robert C. Winthrop, and read by the
latter at a meeting of the Massachusetts Historical So-
ciety, Feb. 14, 1878.3 Mr. Bancroft's conclusion, in
which Mr. Winthrop expressed his concurrence, is that
the Hutchinson letters referred to "were written to pro-
duce an effect on George Grenville ; that they were sent
by Thomas Whately to George Grenville ; that they were
shown by George Grenville to Lord Temple, and that at
Grenville 's death they remained among his papers. The
custody of the letters under any hypothesis belonged to
the executor of Grenville or to the executor of T. Whately.
It came to be agreed by all that the letters were never
in the hands of the executor of T. Whately. There re-
mains, then, no other place in which to search for them

' The Life and Works of John Adams, Vol. II., p. 319, note i.

2 Bigelow's Life of Franklin.

3 Addresses and Speeches by Robert C. Winthrop between 1878 and
1886. Boston.

300 The Works of [1774

except among the papers left by Grenville. John Temple,
as I believe from his own repeated assertions, ferreted
out the matter, and formed the plan of sending them to
be read in Boston. But the communication of the papers
was made to Franklin by a member of Parliament. For
this, the consent of the executor or executors of George
Grenville must have been gained. Perhaps Lord Temple
was Grenville' s executor ; I know not ; but whoever was
charged with the custody of the papers would hardly
have suffered them to be used without Lord Temple's
consent."

The Diary and Letters of Governor Hutchinson, recently
edited by one of his great-grandsons, though it does not
furnish any thing decisive of this question, nor even
show what was Hutchinson's own impression, goes far to
confirm Mr. Bancroft's view, which, as we understand it,
is, that John Temple procured the papers to be given to
Franklin, and "the member of Parliament" was merely
a passive instrument in the matter, and brought upon the
stage merely to screen the principal.

The letters had not long been before the public before
Hutchinson discovered that his native coimtry could no
longer be a home to him; he took refuge in England,
where a small pension was assigned him. He died at
Brompton in 1780. — Editor.

DLX

TO JOSEPH GALLOWAY

London, i8 February, 1774.

Dear Friend: — The acts of the February session,
1773, are at last presented, of which I have lately ac-

17741 Benjamin Franklin 301

quainted the committee.' They are now before the
Board of Trade. I do not yet hear of any objection
to the paper-money bill, and hope there can be none
that we shall not get over. I observe there is no de-
claration of the value of the bills, whether proclama-
tion or sterling. Possibly, if this should be taken
notice of, it may be thought too loose and uncertain ;
but it may escape their observation ; and, if necessary
you can by a little supplement ascertain it.

The treatment of the tea in America has excited
great wrath here ; but how that will vent itself is not
yet known, except that some part of it has fallen upon
me; perhaps from a suspicion that I instigated the
opposition to its importation. This, however, is not
the given reason. My returning Hutchinson's and
Oliver's letters to Boston is held out to the public as
the great offence for which I am deprived of my of-
fice. I will explain to you my conduct in that matter.

Those letters, which had, at the time, been shown
about here to several persons, fell into the hands of a
gentleman, who produced them to me, to convince
me of the truth of a fact, the possibihty of which I had
in conversation denied; namely, that the sending
troops to Boston, and other measures so offensive to
the people of New England, did not arise from any
inimical disposition in this country towards them,
but were projected, proposed, and solicited by some
of the principal and best esteemed of their own peo-
ple. I was convinced accordingly by perusing those
letters, and thought it might have a good effect if I

' The acts of the Pennsylvania Assembly, sent over to be approved
by the king.

302 The Works of [1774

could convince the leaders there of the same truth,
since it would remove much of their resentment
against Britain as a harsh, unkind '

DLXI

THE GEORGIA AGENCY

Thiirsday, 24 February, 1774.

Mr. Farley, from the committee appointed to ex-
amine the journals of the Upper House respecting
their proceedings on the ordinance for appointing a
provincial agent, and the several bills sent from this
House, reported, that by the journals of the Upper
House their proceedings on the ordinance for appoint-
ing a provincial agent are as follows:

Die Lun^, 24 January, 1774.

A message was brought from the Commons House
by Mr. Clay, with on ordinance for reappointing
Benjamin Franklin, Esq., agent to solicit the affairs
of this province in Great Britain, and desiring the
concurrence of this House thereto.

The engrossed ordinance from the Commons House
for reappointing Benjamin Franklin, Esq., agent to
solicit the affairs of this province in Great Britain,
was read the first time, and ordered to be read the
second time on Thursday next.

Die Jovis, 27 January, 1774.

The order of the day being read for reading a
second time the ordinance from the Commons House

' The remainder of the letter is lost.

1774] Benjamin Franklin 303

for reappointing Benjamin Franklin, Esq., agent to
solicit the affairs of this province in Great Britain.

A motion being made was seconded, that the
second reading of the ordinance from the Commons
House for reappointing Benjamin Frankhn, Esq.,
agent to solicit the affairs of this province in Great
Britain be adjourned, and the House being informed
that some disagreeable accounts had been received
from the back country, which may probably require
the immediate attention of the legislature, it is, there-
fore, ordered that the second reading of the said
ordinance be adjourned to Thursday next.

Die Jovis, 3 February.

The order of the day being read for reading the
ordinance from the Commons House for reappointing
Benjamin Franklin, Esq., agent to solicit the affairs
of this province in Great Britain.

Ordered, That the second reading of the said ordin-
ance be adjourned till to-morrow morning.

A motion was made that a committee be appointed
to inquire into the conduct of Benjamin Franklin,
Esq., during the time he was appointed agent of this
province, and that the committee have orders to
send for persons, papers, and records, and do make
their report to this House forthwith.

Ordered, That Mr. Stokes, Mr. Johnston, and Mr.
Hume be the committee.

Mr. Stokes, from the committee appointed to in-
quire into the conduct of Benjamin Franklin, Esq.,
during the time he was appointed agent of this pro-
vince, reported that the committee in pursuance of

304 The Works of [1774

the order of this honorable House did meet, and on
examining the several ordinances for appointing
the said Benjamin Franklin agent of this province,
do find that the said Benjamin Franklin was agent
of this province for the years 1768, 1769, and 1770.
That this committee proceeded to examine his
Honor the President and several other members of
the committee appointed to correspond with the said
Benjamin Franklin as agent, and that they severally
informed the committee that they did not recollect
the ever seeing or hearing read any letter or para-
graph of a letter from the said Benjamin Franklin as
agent, save and except one general letter soon after
his first appointment, declaring his being satisfied
with the salary provided for him, and that he would
endeavor to serve the province as far as was in his
power, or words to that effect, all which is humbly
submitted to this honorable Board, and the said
report, being again read by the Clerk, was approved
by the House.

Die Veneris, 4 February, 1774.

The order of the day being read for the second
reading of the ordinance from the Commons House
for reappointing Benjamin Franklin, Esq., agent to
solicit the affairs of this province in Great Britain,
and the question being put that the said ordinance be
now read a second time, —

It passed in the negative . Nemine contradicente.

Resolved {nemine contradicente) , That the ordinance
be rejected.

Your committee further report that by the said

1774] Benjamin Franklin 305

journals it appears the Upper House have proceeded
on the several bills sent from this House (as yotir
committee apprehends) in the usual forms.

The House having taken the said report into con-
sideration,—

Ordered, That Mr. Farley, Mr. Andrew, Doctor
Jones, Mr. Shruder, and Mr. Simpson be a committee
to enquire into the several matters set forth in the
journals of the Upper House respecting the conduct
of Benjamin Franklin, Esq., since his appointment as
Agent for this Province, and particularly during the
years 1768, 1769, and 1770, and report their opinion
thereon to the House, and that they have power to
send for persons, papers, and records.

Monday, 28 February, 1774.

Mr. Farley from the committee appointed to en-
quire into the several matters set forth in the journals
of the Upper House respecting the conduct of Benja-
min Franklin, Esq., since his appointment as agent
for this province, and particularly during the years
1768, 1769, and 1770, report that it appears to your
committee, by an ordinance passed the nth day of
May, 1768, Benjamin Franklin, Esq., was appointed
agent to solicit the affairs of this province in Great
Britain for one whole year.

That in an ordinance for reappointing the said
Benjamin Franklin to that office passed the 27th
of February, 1770, the preamble sets forth, and
whereas the dissolution of the said Assembly im-
mediately following prevented the said ordinance
from going through its regular forms, and whereas

VOL. VI. — 20.

3o6 The Works of [1774

the said Benjamin Franklin, notwithstanding the
want of such an appointment, hath continued to
transact the business of this province in Great Britain,
be it therefore ordained, etc., that the said Benjamin
Franklin was also reappointed agent by an ordinance
passed the loth of May, 1770, and by the journals of
the Commons House of the 21st of December, 1770,
it appears that the Upper House had agreed to the
reappointment of him for the year 1 7 7 1 .

That it appears very extraordinary to your com-
mittee that the objection lately made to Mr. Frank-
lin by the Upper House, tmfair as it is, should not
have taken place in September last, when they agreed
to a like ordinance, reappointing the same gentleman
as agent.

Your committee further report that the committee
appointed to correspond with the said Benjamin
Franklin, as agent, transmitted their instructions to
him by letter dated 19th of May, 1768, a duplicate
whereof was sent the 26th of the same month; that
the committee received an answer thereto from Mr.
Franklin, by letter, dated the 9th of August, 1768,
directed to James Habersham, Esq.

That the said committee transmitted letters to Mr.
Franklin bearing date the nth, 23d, and 28th days of
May, 1770, and in that of the 23d they say perhaps it
may be necessary to make an apology for an inter-
mission in our correspondence with you as a commit-
tee, which, however, you will be pleased to believe
did not arise from the least doubt of your intentions
or abilities to serve us, but from circumstances aris-
ing from the dissolution of the late Assembly which

1774] Benjamin Franklin 307

are now subsided. That those letters were severally-
answered by Mr. Franklin in his of the loth of
August, 1770, directed to the Hon. James Haber-
sham, Esq., and the rest of the gentlemen of the com-
mittee of correspondence for the province of Georgia,
which letter is entered in the minute-book of the said
committee.

That in the journals of the Commons House, and
also in the printed copy thereof of the 7 th of Novem-
ber, 1769, are two letters dated the 3d of April and
the 7th of June, 1769, received from Mr. Franklin as
agent on the public business of this province.

That the said Benjamin Franklin, as well during
the continuance of his agency as since the expiration
thereof, has exerted his utmost abilities to serve his
constituents, as appears by many paragraphs in
letters received from him (exclusive of those before
mentioned), particularly in one bearing date the ist
of May, 177 1, wherein was enclosed the draft of a
petition to his Majesty in Council relative to the
claim of lands by the assigns of Sir William Baker,
deceased, — which said paragraphs of letters and
draft of petition were (as your committee are in-
formed) communicated to several members of the
Upper House, to the Commons House of Assembly,
and also to most of the members of the Committee of
Correspondence .

That upon the evidence of the several facts above
stated, your committee have

Resolved, That it is the opinion of your commit-
tee, that the determination of the Upper House on
the enquiry into the conduct of the said Benjamin

3o8 The Works of [1774

Franklin, Esquire, during his agency for this prov-
ince, is uncandid and contains unjust resolutions on
the public reputation of that gentleman.

Resolved, That it is the opinion of your committee,
that the said Benjamin Franklin hath, on all occasions
since his first appointment as agent, and now espe-
cially during the years 1768, 1769, and 1770, been in-
defatigable in negotiating the affairs of this province,
and hath faithfully executed every matter given him
in charge either from the Commons House of Assem-
bly or by the Committee of Correspondence.

Resolved, That it is the opinion of your committee,
that the thanks of the Commons House be given to
the said Benjamin Franklin, Esquire, for the just dis-
charge of the important trust reposed in him, and
that Mr. Speaker, be requested to acquaint him there-
with, and assure him that the House retains a grate-
ful sense of his repeated offers and endeavors to serve
the province, and the same being taken into immedi-
ate consideration.

Resolved, That the House doth agree with the com-
mittee in their report.

Motion being made that the House do enter into
the following resolutions, viz. :

Resolved, That it is the opinion of this House, that
the power of appointing an agent to solicit and trans-
act the public affairs of the inhabitants of this pro-
vince in Great Britain is a right and privilege which
is and ought to be exclusively lodged in the represen-
tatives of the people.

Resolved, That Benjamin Franklin, Esquire, be
agent for one whole year, commencing from this

1774] Benjamin Franklin 309

second day of March, one thousand seven hundred
and seventy-four, to represent, soHcit, and transact
the affairs of this province in Great Britain, and he
is hereby fully authorized and empowered to follow
and pursue all such instructions as he shall from time
to time receive from the Commons House of Assem-
bly or the committee apointed to correspond with
him.

Resolved, That the Honorable William Young,
Esq , Noble Wimberly Jones, Joseph Clay, Samuel
Farley, Thomas Shruder, John Simpson, Thomas
Netherclift, Thomas Young, and David Zubly,
Esquires, shall be and they are hereby appointed a
committee to correspond with the said Benjamin
Franklin, and give him such orders and instructions
from time to time as they shall judge to be for the
service of this Province, and the said agent is directed
in all his correspondence to address his letters to the
first named in the above committee, and the other
members thereof, who shall as soon as may be sum-
mon the members of the said committee to meet and
take under consideration the matters contained in
such letters, and in case of the absence from Savan-
nah of the person first in nomination, then any other
member of the committee who shall be present, and
proceed to business, but no letter to be opened or the
seal broke upon any pretence whatsoever before five
of the said committee are present.

Resolved, That the said Benjamin Franklin be al-
lowed and paid for his agency the sum of one hundred
and fifty pounds sterling money of Great Britain for
the term aforesaid, over and above his charges and

3IO The Works of [1774

disbursements, on his appHcation to his Majesty or
the several offices and boards in negotiating the
affairs of this province in Great Britain.

Resolved, That this House will provide in the next
general tax act the said sum of one hundred and
fifty pounds, to be paid to the said Benjamin Frank-
lin, Esquire, for his agency, and also all other charges
and disbursements attending the same.

A debate arising thereon, and the question being
put upon the several resolutions, they passed in the
affirmative. The members for the resolutions were
Mr. Farley, Doctr. Jones, Mr. Clay, Mr. Zubley, Mr.
Thos. Young, Doctr. Houstoun, Mr. Netherclift, Mr.
Powell, Mr. Trentlen, Mr. Simpson, Sir Pat'k Hous-
ton, Mr. Andrew, Mr. Maxwell, Mr. Sallens, Mr. Stirk,
Mr. Millen, and Mr. Shruder; the members against
the said resolutions were Mr. Hall and Mr. Jamieson.

Motion being made that it be a direction to the
committee of correspondence that they do transmit
by the earliest opportunity to Benjamin Franklin,
Esquire, agent for this province, a copy of the ad-
dress of this House to his Majesty, and instruct him^
to use his utmost endeavors to support the same. A
debate arising thereon, and the question being put, it
passed in the affirmative. The members for the mo-
tion were, Mr. Farley, Mr. Zubley, Doctr. Jones, Mr.
Clay, Mr. Shruder, Mr. Henry Yonge, Mr. Isaac
Young, Mr. Thomas Young, Mr. Netherclift, Mr.
Hillen, Mr. Trentlen, Mr. Stirk, Mr. Sallens, Mr.
Andrew, Mr. Maxwell, Mr. Powell, Sir Patrick
Houstoun, and Doctr. Houstoun. The members
against the motion were Mr. Hall and Mr. Jamieson.

1774] Benjamin Franklin 311

Certified to be a true extract from the original

journals.

Rich" Cung" Crooke, Clk.

DLXII

TO SAMUEL COOPER

London, 25 Febniary, 1774.

Dear Sir: — I have written a pretty full account to
the Speaker of the treatment their petition and their
agent have received here. My letter went to Symes,
and probably you may have seen it before this can
reach you; therefore, and because I have a little
disorder in my eyes at present, I do not repeat
any part of it to you, nor can I well send a copy to
him.

You can have no conception of the rage the min-
isterial people have been in with me, on account of
my transmitting those letters. It is quite incompre-
hensible. If they had been wise, they might have
made a good use of the discovery, by agreeing to lay
the blame of our differences on those from whom, by
those letters, it appeared to have arisen, and by a
change of measures, which would then have appeared
natural, and restored the harmony between the two
countries.

I send, directed to you a set of the late French edi-
tion of my Philosophical Papers. ' There are in it
several pieces not in the English. When you have

^ Dubourg's edition, in two quarto volumes, published in 1773.

312 The Works of [1774

looked them over, please to give them to Mr. Win-
throp, for the college library. I am ever, dear sir,
yours most affectionately,

B. Franklin.

DLXIII

ON THE RISE AND PROGRESS OF THE DIFFERENCES BE-
TWEEN GREAT BRITAIN AND HER AMERICAN COLO-
NIES '

To the Printer of the Public Advertiser:

Sir: — The enclosed paper was written just before
Lord Hillsborough quitted the American department.
An expectation then prevailing, from the good char-
acter of the noble lord who succeeded him, that the
grievances of the colonies would, under his adminis-
tration, be redressed, it was laid aside; but, as not a
single measure of his predecessor has since been even
attempted to be changed, and, on the contrary, new
ones have been continually added, further to exasper-
ate these people, render them desperate, and drive
them, if possible, into open rebellion, it may not be
amiss now to give it to the public, as it shows in de-
tail the rise and progress of those differences which
are about to break the empire in pieces.

I am, sir, yours, etc.,

A. P.

» The following papers, first printed in the Public Advertiser in
London, are supposed by William Temple Franklin to have been writ-
ten about the time of the author's departure for America. — Editor.

1774] Benjamin Franklin 313

Sir : — It is a bad temper of mind that takes a de-
light in opposition, and is ever ready to censure
ministry in the gross, without discrimination. Chari-
ty should be willing to believe that we never had an
administration so bad, but there might be some good
and some wise men in it, and that even such is our
case at present. The Scripture saith: "By their
works shall ye know them. ' ' By their conduct, then,
in their respective departments, and not by their
company or their party connections, should they be
distinctly and separately judged.

One of the most serious affairs to this nation that
has of late required the attention of government is
our misunderstanding with the colonies. They are
in the department of Lord Hillsborough, and, from
a prevailing opinion of his abilities, have been left
by the other ministers very much to his manage-
ment. If, then, our American business has been
conducted with prudence, to him chiefly will be due
the reputation of it.

Soon after the commencement of the last war, it
became an object with the ministers of this country
to draw a revenue from America, The first attempt
was by a Stamp Act. It soon appeared that this
step had not been well considered; that the rights,
the abiUty, the opinions, and temper of that great
people had not been sufficiently attended to. They
complained that the tax was unnecessary, because
their Assemblies had ever been ready to make volun-
tary grants to the crown in proportion to their abili-
ties when duly required so to do ; and unjust, because
they had no representative in the British Parliament,

314 The Works of [1774

but had ParUaments of their own, wherein their
consent was given, as it ought to be, in grants of their
own money. I do not mean to enter into this ques-
tion. The ParUament repealed the act as inexpedi-
ent, but in another act asserted a right of taxing
America, and in the following year laid duties on the
manufactures of this coimtry exported thither. On
the repeal of the Stamp Act, the Americans had
returned to their wonted good-humor and commerce
with Britain, but this new act for laying duties
renewed their uneasiness. They were long since for-
bidden by the Navigation Act to purchase manufac-
tures of any other nation; and, supposing that act
well enforced, they saw that by this indirect mode it
was in the power of Britain to burthen them as much
as by any direct tax, unless they could lay aside the
use of such manufactures as they had been accus-
tomed to purchase from Britain, or make the same
themselves.

In this situation were affairs when my Lord

entered on the American administration. Much was
expected from his supposed abilities, application, and
knowledge of business in that department. The
newspapers were filled with his panegyrics, and our
expectations raised perhaps inconveniently.

The Americans determined to petition their sover-
eign, praying his gracious interposition in their
favor with his Parliament, that the imposition of
these duties, which they considered as an infringe-
ment of their rights, might be repealed. The Assem-
bly of the Massachusetts Bay had voted that it should
be proposed to the other colonies to concur in that

1774] Benjamin Franklin 315

measure. This, for what reason I do not easily con-
ceive, gave great offence to his Lordship; and one of
his first steps was to prevent these concurring peti-
tions. To this end he sent a mandate to that Assem-
bly (the Parliament of that country), requiring them
to rescind that vote, and desist from the measure,
threatening them with dissolution in case of disobe-
dience. The governor communicated to them the
instructions he received to that purpose. They
refused to obey, and were dissolved! Similar orders
were sent at the same time to the governors of the
other colonies, to dissolve their respective Parlia-
ments if they presumed to accede to the Boston pro-
position of petitioning his Majesty, and several of
them were accordingly dissolved.

Bad ministers have ever been averse to the right
subjects claim of petitioning and remonstrating to
their sovereign ; for through that channel the prince
may be apprised of the maladministration of his
servants; they may sometimes be thereby brought
into danger; at least such petitions afford a handle
to their adversaries, whereby to give them trouble.
But, as the measure to be complained of was not his
Lordship's, it is rather extraordinary that he should
thus set his face against the intended complaints. In
his angry letters to America, he called the proposal
of these petitions " a measure of most dangerous and
factious tendency, calculated to inflame the minds of
his Majesty's subjects in the colonies, to promote an
univarrantable combination, and to excite and encour-
age an open opposition to, and denial of, the authority
of the Parliament, and to subvert the true spirit of the

3i6 The Works of [1774

constitution''; and directed the governors, immedi-
ately on the receipt of these orders, to exert their
utmost influence to defeat this flagitious attempt.

Without entering into the particular motives to
this piece of his Lordship's conduct, let us consider a
little the wisdom of it. When subjects conceive
themselves oppressed or injured, laying their com-
plaints before the sovereign, or the governing pow-
ers, is a kind of vent to griefs, that gives some ease
to their minds ; the receiving with at least an appear-
ance of regard their petitions, and taking them into
consideration, gives present hope, and affords time
for the cooling of resentment; so that even the re-
fusal, when decently expressed and accompanied
with reasons, is made less unpleasant by the manner,
is half approved, and the rest submitted to with
patience. But when this vent to popular discontents
is denied, and the subjects are thereby driven to de-
speration, infinite mischiefs follow. Many princes
have lost part, and some the whole of their domin-
ions, and some their lives, by this very conduct of
their servants. The Secretary for America, therefore,
seems in this instance not to have judged rightly for
the service of his excellent master

But supposing the measure of discouraging and
preventing petitions a right one, were the means of
effecting this end judiciously chosen? I mean, the
threatening with dissolution and the actual dissolving
of the American Parliaments. His Lordship proba-
bly took up the idea from what he knows of the
state of things in England and Ireland, where, to be
re-chosen upon a dissolution, often gives a candidate

1774] Benjamin Franklin 317

great trouble, and sometimes costs him a great deal of
money. A dissolution may therefore be both fine
and punishment to the members, if they desire to be
again returned. But, in most of the colonies, there
is no such thing as standing candidate for election.
There is neither treating nor bribing. No man ever
expresses the least inclination to be chosen. Instead
of himible advertisements, entreating votes and inter-
est, you see, before every new election, requests of
former members, acknowledging the honor done them
by preceding elections, but setting forth their long
service and attendance on the public business in that
station, and praying that, in consideration thereof,
some other person may be chosen in their room.
Where this is the case, where the same representa-
tives may be, and generally are, after a dissolution,
chosen, without asking a vote or giving even a glass
of cider to an elector, is it likely that such a threat
could contribute in the least to answer the end pro-
posed? The experience of former governors might
have instructed his Lordship, that this was a vain ex-
pedient. Several of them, misled by their English
ideas, had tried this practice to make Assemblies sub-
missive to their measures, but never with success.
By the influence of his power in granting offices, a
governor naturally has a nimiber of friends in an
assembly; these, if suffered to continue, might,
though a minority, frequently serve his purpose, by
promoting what he wishes, or obstructing what he
dislikes. But if, to punish the majority, he in a pet
dissolves the House, and orders a new election, he is
sure not to see a single friend in the new assembly.

3i8 The Works of [1774

The people are put into an ill humor by the trouble
given them, they resent the dissolution as an affront,
and leave out every man suspected of having the
least regard for the governor. This was the very
effect of my Lord's dissolutions in America, and the
new assemblies were all found more untractable
than the old ones.

But besides the imprudence of this measure, was it
constitutional? The crown has doubtless the pre-
rogative of dissolving parliaments, a prerogative
lodged in its hands for the public good, which may in
various instances require the use of it. But should a
king of Great Britain demand of his Parliament the
recision of any vote they had passed, or forbid them
to petition the throne, on pain of dissolution, and
actually dissolve them accordingly, I humbly con-
ceive the minister who advised it would run some haz-
ard— of censure at least, — for thus using the pre-
rogative to the violation of common right, and breach
of the constitution. The American Assemblies have
no means of impeaching such a minister ; but there is
an Assembly, the Parliament of England, that have
that power, and in a former instance exercised it well,
by impeaching a great man, Lord Clarendon, for
having, though in one instance only, endeavored to
introduce arbitrary government into the colonies.

The effect this operation of the American Secretary
had in America, was not a prevention of those peti-
tions, as he intended, but a despair in the people of
any success from them, since they could not pass to
the throne but through the hands of one who showed
himself so extremely averse to the existence of them.

1774] Benjamin Franklin 319

Thence arose the design of interesting the British
merchants and manufacturers in the event of their
petitions, by agreements not to import goods from
Great Britain till their grievances were redressed.
Universal resentment occasioned these agreements
to be more generally entered into, and the sending
of troops to Boston, who daily insulted the Assembly
and townsmen, instead of terrifying into a compliance
with his measures, served only to exasperate and sour
the minds of the people throtighout the continent,
make frugality fashionable, when the consumption of
British goods was the question, and determine the in-
habitants to exert every nerve in establishing manu-
factures among themselves.

Boston having grievously offended his Lordship,
by the refractory spirit they had shown in re-choosing
those representatives whom he esteemed the leaders
of the opposition there, he resolved to punish that
town by removing the Assembly from thence to Cam-
bridge, a country place about four miles distant.
Here too his Lordship's English and Irish ideas seem
to have misled him. Removing a Parliament from
London or Dublin, where so many of the inhabitants
are supported by the expense of such a number of
wealthy lords and commoners, and have a depend-
ence on that support, may be a considerable prejudice
to a city deprived of such advantage; but the re-
moval of the Assembly, consisting of frugal, honest
farmers, from Boston, could only effect the interest

' They mounted a numerous guard daily round the ParHament
House, with drums beating and fifes pla3'-ing, while the members were
in their debates, and had cannon planted and pointed at the building.

320 The Works of [1774

of a few poor widows, who keep lodging-houses there.
Whatever manufactures the members might want,
were still purchased at Boston. They themselves
indeed suffered some inconvenience, in being perhaps
less commodiously lodged, and being at a distance
from the records; but this, and the keeping them
before so long prorogued, when the public affairs re-
quired their meeting, could never reconcile them to
ministerial measures ; it could serve only to put them
more out of humor with Britain and its government
so wantonly exercised, and to so little purpose.
Ignorance alone of the true state of that country
can excuse (if it may be excused) these frivolous
proceedings.

To have good ends in view, and to use proper means
to obtain them, shows the minister to be both good
and wise. To pursue good ends by improper means
argues him, though good, to be but weak. To pursue
bad ends, by artful means, shows him to be wicked,
though able. But when his ends are bad, and the
means he uses improper to obtain these ends, what
shall we say of such a minister? Every step taken
for some time past in our treatment of America, the
suspending their legislative powers for not making
laws by direction from hence; the countenancing
their adversaries by rewards and pensions, paid out of
the revenues extorted from them by laws to which
they have not given their assent ; the sending over a
set of rash, indiscreet commissioners to collect that
revenue, who by insolence of behavior, harassing
commerce, and perpetually accusing the good people
(out of whose substance they are supported) to gov-

1774] Benjamin Franklin 321

emment here, as rebels and traitors, have made them-
selves universally odious there, but here are caressed
and encouraged ; together with the arbitrary dissolu-
tion of Assemblies, and the quartering troops among
the people, to menace and insult them; all these
steps, if intended to provoke them to rebellion, that
we might take their lives and confiscate their estates,
are proper means to obtain a bad end. But if they
are intended to conciliate the Americans to our gov-
ernment, restore our commerce with them, and secure
the friendship and assistance which their growing
strength, wealth, and power may, in a few years, ren-
der extremely valuable to us, can any thing be con-
ceived more injudicious, more absurd! His Lordship
may have in general a good understanding; his
friends say he has; but in the political part of it,
there must surely be some twist, some extreme
obliquity.
A Well-wisher to the King and all his Dominions.

To the Printer of the Public Advertiser:

Sir: — Your correspondent Britannicus inveighs
violently against Dr. Franklin for his ingratitude to
the ministry of this nation, who have conferred upon
him so many favors. They gave him the post-office
of America ; they made his son a governor ; and they
offered him a post of five hundred a year in the salt-
office, if he would relinquish the interests of his
country ; but he has had the wickedness to continue
true to it, and is as much an American as ever. As

322 The Works of [1774

it is a settled point of government here, that every
man has his price, it is plain they are bunglers in
their business, and have not given him enough.
Their master has as much reason to be angry with
them, as Rodrigue, in the play with his apothecary,
for not effectually poisoning Pandolpho, and they
must probably make use of the apothecary's justifica-
tion, viz.:

Scene IV. — Rodrigue and Fell, the Apothecary.

" Rodrigue. — You promised to have this Pandolpho
upon his bier in less than a week; 't is more than a
month since, and he still walks and stares at me in
the face.

''Fell. — True; and yet I have done my best en-
deavors. In various ways I have given the miscre-
ant as much poison as would have killed an elephant.
He has swallowed dose after dose; far from hurting
him, he seems the better for it. He hath a wonder-
fully strong constitution. I find I cannot kill him
but by cutting his throat, and that, as I take it, is not
my business.

''Rodrigue. — Then it must be mine."

To the Printer of the Public Advertiser:

Sir: — Nothing can equal the present rage of our
ministerial writers against our brethren in America,
who have the misfortune to be whigs in a reign when
whiggism is out of fashion, who are besides Protes-
tant dissenters and lovers of liberty. One may

1774] Benjamin Franklin 323

easily see from what quarter comes the abuse of
those people in the papers; their struggle for their
rights is called rebellion, and the people rebels;
while those who really rebelled in Scotland
for the expulsion of the present reigning family, and
the establishment of Popery and arbitrary power, on
the ruins of liberty and Protestantism, who entered
England and trampled on its belly as far as Derby,
to the astonishment of this great city, and shaking
the public credit of the nation, have now all their
sins forgiven on account of their modish principles,
and are called, not rebels, but by the softer appella-
tion of insurgents! These angry writers use their
utmost efforts to persuade us that this war with the
colonies (for a war it will be) is a national cause,
when in fact it is a ministerial one. Administration
wants an American revenue to dissipate in corruption.
The quarrel is about a paltry three-penny duty on
tea. There is no real clashing of interests between
Britain and America. Their commerce is to their
mutual advantage, or rather most to the advantage
of Britain, which finds a vast market in America for
its manufactures, and as good pay, I speak from
knowledge, as in any country she trades to upon the
face of the globe. But the fact needs not my testi-
mony ; it speaks for itself ; for if we could elsewhere
get better pay and better prices, we should not send
our goods to America.

The gross calumniators of that people, who want
us to imbrue our hands in brother's blood, have the
effrontery to tell the world that the Americans asso-
ciated in resolutions not to pay us what they owe us,

324 The Works of [1774

unless we repealed the Stamp Act. This is an infa-
mous falsehood; they knew it to be such. I call
upon the incendiaries, who have advanced it, to pro-
duce their proofs. Let them name any two that en-
tered into such an association, or any one that made
such a declaration. Absurdity marks the very face
of this lie. Every one acquainted with trade knows
that a credited merchant, daring to be concerned in
such an association, could never expect to be trusted
again. His character on the Exchange of London
would be ruined forever. The great credit given
them since that time, nay, the present debt due from
them, is itself a proof of the confidence we have in
their probity . Another villainous falsehood advanced
against the Americans is that though we have been
at such expense in protecting them, they refuse to
contribute their part to the public general expense of
the empire. The fact is that they never did refuse a
requisition of that kind. A writer, who calls himself
Sagittarius (I suppose from his flinging about, like
Solomon's fools, firebrands, arrows, and death), in
the Ledger of March 9th, asserts that the "experi-
ment has been tried, and that they did not think it
expedient to return even an answer." How does he
prove this? Why, "the colony agents were told by
Mr. Grenville that a revenue would be required from
them to defray the expenses of their protection."
But was the requisition ever made ? Were circulars
ever sent, by his Majesty's command, from the Sec-
retary of State to the several colony governments,
according to the established custom, stating the oc-
casion and requiring such supplies as were suitable to

1774] Benjamin Franklin 325

their abilities and loyalty ? And did they then refuse,
not only compliance, but an answer? No such mat-
ter ; agents are not the channel through which requisi-
tions are made. If they were told by Mr. Grenville
that " a revenue would be required, and yet the colo-
nies made no offer, no grant, nor laid any tax, " does it
follow that they would not have done it if they had
been required? Probably they thought it time
enough when the requisition should come, and in fact
it never appeared there to this day. In the last war
they all gave so liberally, that we thought ourselves
bound in honor to return them a million. But we are
disgusted with their free gifts ; we want to have some-
thing that is obtained by force, like a mad landlord
who should refuse the willing payment of his full
rents, and choose to take less by way of robbery.

This shameless writer would cajole the people of
England with the fancy of their being kings of Amer-
ica, and that their honor is at stake by the Americans
disputing their government. He thrusts us into the
throne cheek-by-jole with majesty, and would have
us talk, as he writes, of our subjects in America, and
our sovereignty over America; forgetting that the
Americans are subjects of the king, not our subjects,
but our fellow-subjects ; and that they have Parlia-
ments of their own, with the right of granting their
own money by their own representatives, which we
cannot deprive them of but by violence and injustice.

Having by a series of iniquitous and irritating
measures provoked a loyal people almost to despera-
tion, we now magnify every act of an American mob
into REBELLION, though the government there disap-

326 The Works of [1774

prove it and order prosecution, as is now the case
with regard to the tea destroyed. And we talk of
nothing but troops and fleets, and force, of blocking
up ports, destroying fisheries, abolishing charters, etc.,
etc. Here mobs of English sawyers can bum saw-
mills; mobs of English laborers destroy or plunder
magazines of com ; mobs of English coal-heavers at-
tack houses with fire-arms; English smugglers can
fight regularly the king's cruising vessels, drive them
ashore, and burn them, as lately on the coast of
Wales and on the coast of Cornwall ; but upon these
accounts we hear no talk of England's being in re-
bellion ; no threats of taking away its Magna Charta,
or repealing its Bill of Rights; for we all know that
the operations of a mob are often unexpected, sudden,
and soon over, so that the civil power can seldom
prevent or suppress them, not being able to come in
before they have dispersed themselves; and there-
fore it is not always accountable for their mischiefs.

Surely the great commerce of this nation with the
Americans is of too much importance to be risked in
a quarrel which has no foundation but ministerial
pique and obstinacy.

To us in the way of trade comes now, and has long
come, all the superlucration arising from their labors.
But will our reviling them as cheats, hypocrites,
scoundrels, traitors, cowards, tyrants, etc., etc., ac-
cording to the present court mode in all our papers,
make them more our friends, more fond of our mer-
chandise. Did ever any tradesman succeed, who at-
tempted to drub customers into his shop ? And will
honest John Bull, the farmer, be long satisfied with

1774] Benjamin Franklin 327

servants that before his face attempt to kill his
plough-horses ?

A Londoner.

DLXIV

FROM SAMUEL YOUNG AND OTHERS, COMMITTEE OF THE
LOWER HOUSE OF THE PROVINCE OF GEORGIA

Savannah, 14 March, 1774.

Sir: — Truly sensible of your well experienced
fidelity and merit, immediately on the meeting of the
General Assembly, the Commons House passed an
ordinance reappointing you as Agent, which was re-
jected by the Upper House for reasons best known to
themselves. It was necessary, however, that some-
thing should appear to account for their mysterious
conduct, and the enclosed is a copy of the minutes ex-
tracted from their journals by a committee of the
Lower House appointed for that purpose.

Your conduct has been so generally approved that
the representatives of the people could not suffer
those measures to pass over unnoticed, and they
therefore directly entered into such resolutions as
they thought sufficient to do justice to a reputation
which is of itself so sacred and well known as to re-
quire no foreign support, a copy of which you have
also enclosed.

It sometimes happens in societies as in private life
that small injuries are suffered and winked at until
they increase and become too intolerable to be any
longer borne; the Commons of Georgia, upon a

328 The Works of [1774

presumption that any gentleman nominated by them
would receive no opposition from either of the other
legislative branches, from time to time have made it
their practice to prepare an ordinance and send it to
the Upper House for their concurrence. This has at
length been misconstrued into a right, and they now
suppose no agent for the people can be properly ap-
pointed unless they join in the nomination.

Perfectly convinced of their exclusive right, the
Commons House have entered into a resolution (a
copy of which you will also herewith receive) reap-
pointing you their Agent, and we are directed to
entreat that you will do just honor to their choice by
your acceptance of the office, and upon such pre-
sumption we are instructed to acquaint you that the
province has lately been much alarmed and terrified
by the incursions of some discontented Creek Indians,
who have perpetrated many murders, and otherwise
committed great depredations on the persons and
property of many settlers lately residing on our
frontier, formed by the lands lately ceded to his
Majesty.

Although the party of Indians which committed
these outrages consists of about fifty of the lower
Creeks only, and their treacherous and cruel behavior
is disapproved of and condemned by their country-
men in the Upper Creek nation, yet, when satisfaction
comes to be demanded, it is much to be feared that
their incapacity to give such [sic] as should (and prob-
ably will) be insisted upon, may be the unavoidable
means of bringing on a general war with that power-
ful nation, whose number of fighting men, we have

1774] Benjamin Franklin 329

every reason to believe, from the best authority,
amounts to full four thousand.

As this province is very far from being able to carry
on of itself so expensive and dangerous a war, the
two branches of the legislative body have separately
furnished his Excellency the Governor, with ad-
dresses to the king, which he has promised to cause
to be presented by the earliest opportunity. The
Commons House, for reasons which you will un-
doubtedly see through, thought administration the
properest channel for their address to pass to his
Majesty. They, however, directed us to furnish you
with the enclosed copy, and desire that you will add
another proof of your attachment to this province by
exerting your utmost influence in support of our
application to the crown for troops to reduce the
savages to a proper sense of their conduct, and bring
them to terms of peace and justice. We have no-
thing further to add but that we are with great
esteem and respect.

Sir, your most obedient servants,

WiLLM. Young,
W. Jones,
Joseph Clay,
Tho. Shruder,
Saml. Farley,
T. Netherclift,
D. Zubley, Junr.
Benjamin Franklin, Esquire,

Agent for the Province of Georgia.

33° The Works of [1774

DLXV

QUERIES

Indorsed " Queries relating to the colonies to be discussed
with Lord C m." '

Q. What were the original ideas upon which the
colonies were settled?

What was the state of their government during
the first reign ?

Were they established at the expense of govern-
ment here ?

Did the Parliament make any grants to defray or
aid the first charge, or for protecting the settlers?

Was the Parliament advised with by the crown
concerning the terms of settlement? Did it form
any regulations thereupon ? Did it understand itself
to have any power over them?

Did not the colonists go over free from the laws of
this country, with a right to adopt such of them as
they should judge convenient to their circumstances
and reject others? And did they not, in fact,
do so?

Were they not first reduced to any submission to
Parliament in the time of the great rebellion ?

Has it not been by degrees since the Restoration
that the Parliament has assumed a power of legisla-
tion for America?

What is the present state of power assumed by
Parliament over the colonies?

I Lord Chatham,

1774] Benjamin Franklin 33'

What changes may be advantageously for both
countries made therein?

What would be the best constitution for the colo-
nies as connected with this country ? And how is it
to be obtained?

DLXVI

TO THE MARQUIS DE CONDORCET

London, 20 March, 1774.

Sir: — I am ashamed that my late continued em-
barras in public affairs should have so long prevented
my answering the letter you honored me with, of the
2d of December last.

I transmitted your queries to our society at Phila-
delphia, where they will be well considered, and full
answers will be sent to you. On my return thither,
which I am now preparing for, I shall take care, if
not done, to urge the doing it as soon as possible.

In the meantime, I can inform you, as to question
first, that, though there is in Pennsylvania abundance
of limestone and marble, no flint has been found
there by the English ; yet it is supposed that flint is
to be met with in some part of the country, since
heads of arrows made of it by the ancient inhabitants
are sometimes found in ploughing the fields. Thus,
small sea-shells are found intermixed with the sub-
stance of rock-stone in some of our highest mountains,
and such I think as are not now to be met with on
our coasts. Several skeletons, supposed by their
tusks to be of elephants, have been found near the

332 The Works of [1774

Ohio, an account of which may be foiind in the Eng-
lish Philosophical Transactions.

As to question second, observations, have been
made in America of the variation of the needle, and,
as well as I can remember, it is found to differ a de-
gree in about twenty years.

As to question third, the height of the barometer,
by many years' observation, is said to vary between
28.59 ^i^d 30.78. The conjectures from these
changes are still uncertain.

As to question fourth, the negroes, who are free,
live among the white people, but are generally impro-
vident and poor. I think they are not deficient in
natural understanding, but they have not the advan-
tages of education. They make good musicians.

As to question fifth, I do not know that any
marks of volcanoes, any lava, or pumice-stone, have
been met with in North America. Pit-coal is found
in many places, and very good, but little used, there
being plenty of wood.

These answers are very short. I hope to procure
you such as shall be more full and satisfactory.

With great respect, I have the honor to be, sir, etc.,

B. Franklin.

DLXVII

TO JOHN BAPTIST BECCARIA

London, 20 March, 1774.

Reverend and Dear Sir: — I have received several
of your favors lately, relating to the edition of your

1774] Benjamin Franklin 333

book in English, which I have put into the hands of
the translator, who will observe your directions. The
work is now in the press, and goes on pretty fast. I
am much obliged by your kind assistance in procuring
the impressions from the plates. They are not yet
arrived here ; but the money, which I find by a note
from you to Dr. Priestly amounts to one hundred and
forty- three livres of Piedmont, will be paid by the
bookseller, Mr. Nourse, in my absence, to any person
you may order to receive it.

Mr. Walsh, the same ingenious member of our so-
ciety who went to France to make experiments on the
torpedo, has lately hit on a new discovery in elec-
tricity which surprises us a little. You know that
finding air, made rarer by the pimip or by heat, gave
less obstruction to the passage of electricity than
when in its denser state, we were apt to think a per-
fect vacuum would give it no resistance at all. But
he, having, by boiling the mercury, made a perfect
vacuum in a long bent Torricellian tube, has found
that vacuum absolutely to resist the passage of the
electric fluid during two or three days, or till some
quantity of air, the smallest imaginable, is admitted
into it. This, if verified by future experiments, may
afford some new light to the doctrine '

' The remainder of the letter is lost. — Editor.

334 The Works of [1774

DLXVIII

TO JOSEPH PRIESTLEY *

That the vegetable creation should restore the

air which is spoiled by the animal part of it, looks like
a rational system, and seems to be of a piece with the
rest. Thus fire purifies water all the world over. It
purifies it in distillation, when it raises it in vapors,
and lets it fall in rain; and further still by filtration,
when, keeping it fluid, it suffers that rain to percolate
the earth. We knew before, that putrid animal sub-
stances were converted into sweet vegetables, when
mixed with the earth and applied as manure; and
now it seems that the same putrid substances, mixed
with the air, have a similar effect. The strong, thriv-
ing state of your mint in putrid air seems to show
that the air is mended by taking something from it,
and not by adding to it. I hope this will give some
check to the rage of destroying trees that grow near
houses, which has accompanied our late improve-
ments in gardening, from an opinion of their being
unwholesome. I am certain, from long observation,
that there is nothing unhealthy in the air of woods;
for we Americans have everywhere our country habi-
tations in the midst of woods, and no people on earth

enjoy better health, or are more prolific.

B. Franklin.

^ This extract, taken from Priestley's Experiments on Air, is intro-
duced with the following remark: "Dr. Franklin, who, as I have
already observed, saw some of my plants in a very flourishing state, in
noxious air, was pleased to express very great satisfaction with the
result of the experiments In answer to the letter in which I informed
him of it, he says," etc. — Editor.

1774] Benjamin Franklin 335

DLXIX

TO THOMAS GUSHING

London, 22 March, 1774.

Sir: — I received your favor of January 23d. I
suppose we never had since we were a people so few
friends in Britain. The violent destruction of the
tea seems to have united all parties here against our
province, so that the bill now brought into Parliament
for shutting up Boston as a port till satisfaction is
made, meets with no opposition. An alteration in
our charter relating to the choice of the coimcil is also
talked of, but it is not certain that it will be proposed
at present. I cannot but hope that the affair of the
tea will have been considered in the Assembly before
this time, and satisfaction proposed if not made; for
such a step will remove much of the prejudice now
entertained against us, and put us again on a fair foot-
ing in contending for our old privileges as occasion
may require. I am not well enough to bustle or to
write much, and can only add my best wishes for the
prosperity of my country.

With great respect and esteem, I have the honor
to be, sir,

Your most obedt. humble servt.,

B. Franklin.

P. S. — By the inquiries that I hear are made, I
suspect there may be a design to seize some persons
who are supposed to be ringleaders, and bring them
here for trial.

It is talked here that authentic advices are received

336 The Works of [1774

assuring government that Messrs. Hancock and
Adams were seen at the head of the mob that de-
stroyed the tea, openly encouraging them. I oppose
this report by alleging the improbability that, when
the lower actors thought it prudent to disguise them-
selves, any of the principal inhabitants should appear
in the affair.

DLXX

TO THOMAS GUSHING

London, 2 April, 1774.

Sir: — My last was of the 226. past, since which I
have received none of your favors. I mentioned that
the bill brought into Parliament for punishing Boston
met with no opposition. It did, however, meet with
a little before it got through, some few of the mem-
bers speaking against it in the House of Commons,
and more in the House of Lords. It passed, how-
ever, by a very great majority in both, and received
the royal assent on Thursday, the 31st past. You
will have a copy of it from Mr. Lee.

In mine of February 2d, I informed you that, after
the treatment I had received at the council board, it
was not possible for me to act longer as your agent,
apprehending I could as such be of no further use to
the province. I have nevertheless given what assist-
ance I could, as a private man, by speaking to mem-
bers of both Houses, and by joining in the petitions
of the natives of America now happening to be in
London, which were ably drawn by Mr. Lee, to be

1774] Benjamin Franklin 337

presented separately to the several branches of the
legislature. They serve, though without other effect,
to show our sentiments, and that we did not look on
and let the act pass without bearing our testimony
against it. And, indeed, though called petitions (for
under another name they would not have been re-
ceived) they are rather remonstrances and protests.

By the enclosed extract of a letter from Wakefield
in Yorkshire to a friend of mine, you will see that the
manufacturers begin to take the alarm. Another
general non-importation agreement is apprehended
by them, which would complete their ruin. But great
pains are taken to quiet them with the idea that Bos-
ton must immediately submit, and acknowledge the
claims of ParHament, for that none of the other colo-
nies will adhere to them. A number of the principal
manufacturers from different parts of the kingdom
are now in town, to oppose the new duty on foreign
linens, which they fear may provoke the Germans to
lay discouragements on British manufactures. They
have desired me to meet and dine with them on
Wednesday next, where I shall have an oppor-
tunity of learning their sentiments more fully, and
communicating my own.

Some alterations of the constitution of Massachu-
setts are now hotly talked of; though what they are
to be, seems hardly yet settled. One thing memtioned
is the appointment of the council hy mandamus.
Another, giving power to the governor to appoint
magistrates without consent of council. Another,
the abolishing of town meetings, or making it unlaw-
ful to hoM them, till the business to be proposed

338 The Works of [1774

has been certified to the governor, and his permis-
sion obtained. A motion has also been made in
the House of Commons, with a view to conciHate, as
is said; that all the duty acts should be revised, and,
in the revision and re-enacting, without formally or
expressly repealing the tea duty (which would hurt
the dignity of Parliament), sink or omit it, and add an
equal value in some of the coasting port duties ; and
the tea duty, being thus taken out of the way, it is
supposed will have the salutary effect of preventing
the other colonies from making a common cause with
ours. Some advantages in trade are at the same time
to be given to America for the same purpose, such as
carrying wine and fruit directly from Spain and Por-
tugal, without touching in England.

I send enclosed the proceedings of the Lords on
Wednesday, which show their zeal in the business, by
appointing a committee to sit during the recess in the
Easter holidays. With great esteem, I am, sir, etc.,

B. Franklin.

DLXXI

TO JOSEPH PRIESTLEY

Craven Street, io April, 1774.

Dear Sir: — In compliance with yovir request, I
have endeavored to recollect the circumstances of
the American experiments I formerly mentioned to
you, of raising a flame on the surface of some waters
there.

When I passed through New Jersey, in 1764, I

1774] Benjamin Franklin 339

heard it several times mentioned, that, by applying a
lighted candle near the surface of some of their rivers,
a sudden flame would catch and spread on the water,
continuing to burn for near half a minute. But the
accounts I received were so imperfect that I could
form no guess at the cause of such an effect, and
rather doubted the truth of it. I had no opportunity
of seeing the experiment ; but, calling to see a friend
who happened to be just returning home from making
it himself, I learned from him the manner of it ; which
was to choose a shallow place, where the bottom
could be reached by a walking-stick, and was muddy ;
the mud was first to be stirred with the stick, and,
when a number of small bubbles began to arise from
it, the candle was applied. The flame was so sudden
and so strong that it catched his ruffle and spoiled it,
as I saw. New Jersey having many pine trees in
many parts of it, I then imagined that something like
a volatile oil of turpentine might be mixed with the
waters from a pine swamp, but this supposition did
not quite satisfy me. I mentioned the fact to some
philosophical friends on my return to England, but it
was not much attended to. I suppose I was thought
a little too credulous.

In 1765, the Reverend Dr. Chandler received a
letter from Dr. Finley, president of the college in
that province, relating the same experiment. It was
read at the Royal Society, November 21st of that
year, but not printed in the Transactions; perhaps
because it was thought too strange to be true, and
some ridicule might be apprehended, if any member
should attempt to repeat it, in order to ascertain or

340 The Works of [1774

refute it. The following is a copy of that account.

"A worthy gentleman, who lives a few miles' dis-
tance, informed me that in a certain small cove of a
mill-pond, near his house, he was surprised to see the
surface of the water blaze like inflamed spirits. I
soon after went to the place, and made the experi-
ment with the same success. The bottom of the
creek was mudded, and when stirred up, so as to
cause a considerable curl on the surface, and a
lighted candle held within two or three inches of it,
the whole surface was in a blaze, as instantly as the
vapor of warm inflammable spirits, and continued,
when strongly agitated, for the space of several se-
conds. It was at first imagined to be peculiar to that
place ; but upon trial it was soon found that such a
bottom in other places exhibited the same phenome-
non. The discovery was accidentally made by one
belonging to the mill."

I have tried the experiment twice here in England,
but without success. The first was in a slow running
water with a muddy bottom. The second in a stag-
nant water at the bottom of a deep ditch. Being
some time employed in stirring this water, I ascribed
an intermitting fever, which seized me a few days
after, to my breathing too much of that foul air,
which I stirred up from the bottom, and which I
could not avoid while I stooped, endeavoring to
kindle it. The discoveries you have lately made, of
the manner in which inflammable air is in some cases
produced, may throw light on this experiment and
explain its succeeding in some cases, and not in
others.

1774] Benjamin Franklin 341

With the highest esteem and respect, I am, dear
sir, your most obedient, humble servant,

B. Franklin.

DLXXII

TO THOMAS GUSHING

London, i6 April, 1774.

Sir: — The above are copies of my two last. The
torrent is still violent against America. A bill is
brought in to alter the charter appointing the council
by the crown, giving power to the governors to
nominate and commission magistrates without con-
sent of council, and forbidding any town meeting to
be held in the province (except the annual one for
choosing town officers) without the permission of the
governor, and for that business only for which such
permission shall be requested. The manner of ap-
pointing jurors is likewise to be altered. And an-
other bill is to provide for the security of persons
who may be concerned in executing or enforcing acts
of Parliaments there, by directing the trials for any
thing done by them to be in some neighboring pro-
vince or in Great Britain at the discretion of the
governor. I hope to get the breviates of those bills
in time to send by this ship. They will meet with
opposition in both Houses; but there is little hope
that they will not pass, we having very few friends in
Parliament at present. The House will probably sit
till some time in June, perhaps longer, and till they
hear the effect of these measures in America. I

342 The Works of [1774

think to stay here as long as they sit, Mr. Lee being
about to go abroad for a few months. General Gage
has been hastily commissioned and sent away to be
your governor. It is given out that copies of several
letters of mine to you are sent over here to the min-
isters, and that their contents are treasonable, for
which I should be prosecuted if copies could be
made evidence. I am not conscious of any treasona-
ble intention, and I know that much violence must
be used with my letters before they can be construed
into treason, yet having lately seen two of my ac-
tions, one my endeavor to lessen the difference be-
tween the two countries, the other to stop a dangerous
quarrel between individuals, and which I should have
thought and still think to be good actions, condemned
as bad ones by high authority, I am not to wonder if
less than a small lump in my forehead is voted a
horn. And you will not wonder if my future let-
ters contain mere relations of facts, without any
of my sentiments upon them, which perhaps I have
been too forward in offering. With the greatest
respect I have the honor to be, sir.

Your most obedient, humble servant,

B. Franklin.

DLXXIII

TO THOMAS GUSHING

London, 28 April, 1774.

Sir: — I have written several letters to you lately
by different conveyances, and sent you the bills

1774] Benjamin Franklin 343

passed and about to be passed relating to our pro-
vince. I now send the reports of the committee of
the Lords, which seems hard upon us, as every thing
written by any officer of government is taken for un-
doubted truth. I can now only add that I am, as
ever, with great respect to the House and yourself,
sir,

Your most obedient and most humble servant,

B. Franklin.

DLXXIV

TO MRS. DEBORAH FRANKLIN

London, 28 April, 1774.

My Dear Love : — I hoped to have been on the sea
in my return by this time ; but find I must stay a few
weeks longer, perhaps for the summer ships. Thanks
to God, I continue well and hearty; and I hope to
find you so, when I have the happiness once more of
seeing you.

Your goddaughter, Amelia Evans that was (now
Mrs. Barry), is gone again with her husband and
children to Tunis, where she is to live some time,
while her husband, who is captain of a ship, trades in
those seas. Enclosed I send the affectionate, sensible
letter she wrote to me on taking leave.

My blessing to the children. Mrs. Hewson's have
lately had the small-pox; the eldest in the common
way very full, the youngest by inoculation lightly,
and both are now well. But Mr. Hewson is down
with a terrible fever, and till yesterday his life was

344 The Works of [1774

despaired of. We now begin to hope his recovery.
I shall give you another line by the packet of next
week, and am, as ever, dear Debby, your affectionate
husband,

B. Franklin.

DLXXV

TO THOMA S GUSHING

London, i June, 1774.

Sir: — I received your respected favor of March
31st, with another of the same date from the com-
mittee. The latest of my letters which had then
come to your hands, was of January 7th, since which
I have written several, containing a full account of
the hearing on the petition, the intended acts against
our province, the petition presented by the natives of
America at this time residing here, and the appoint-
ment of General Gage as governor. And in the
course of last month I sent you, by various convey-
ances, under covers, with only a line or two, copies
of the acts themselves, and other public papers and
pamphlets. With this I enclose a list of your new
council, the Quebec bill, an abstract of the resolutions
for laying duties on that province, and some papers
containing the two protests of the Lords, and a list of
those who have voted against the bills.

Lord Chatham, being ill at the time, could not be
present, or he would probably have voted on the
same side. He has since appeared in the House, and
delivered his sentiments fully on the American meas-

1774] Benjamin Franklin 345

ures, blamed us for destroying the tea, and our de-
clarations of independence on the ParHament; but
condemned strongly the measures taken here in
consequence, and spoke honorably of our province
and people, and of their conduct in the late war.'

Mr. Lee has gone to make the tour of France and
Italy, and probably will be absent near a year. Just
before his departure he drew up, at my instance, a
kind of answer to the Lords' committee's report, for
which I furnished him with most of the materials. I
enclose a copy of it. I had resigned your agency to
him, expecting to leave England about the end of this
month ; but on his departure he has returned me all
the papers, and I feel myself now under a kind of ne-
cessity of continuing, till you can be acquainted with
this circumstance, and have time to give further
orders.

I shall apply to Lord Dartmouth, agreeably to the
directions of the committee, and write to them fully,
as soon as I have his Lordship's answer.

Your friendly concern on my account, lest the pro-
ject for a subscription post-office in America should

' Lord Chatham said, in the speech here alluded to: " If we take a
transient view of those motives which induced the ancestors of our
fellow-subjects in America to leave their native country to encotmter
the innumerable difficulties of the unexplored regions of the western
world, our astonishment at the present conduct of their descendants
will naturally subside. There was no comer of the world into which
men of their free and enterprising spirit would not fly with alacrity,
rather than submit to the slavish and tyrannical principles which
prevailed at that period in their native country. And shall we won-
der, if the descendants of such illustrious characters spurn with con-
tempt the hand of imconstitutional power, that would snatch from
them such dear-bought privileges as they now contend for?" — De-
brett's Parliamentary Debates, Vol. VII., p. lo.

34^ The Works of [1774

prove prejudicial to me, is very obliging; but you
must have learnt, before this time, that it was then
superfluous, my place having been taken from me on
the 3 ist of January. As the salary I received in that
office is now ceased, and I have been lately at near
two hundred pounds' expense on the province's ac-
count in various ways, I am obliged to request that
some means may be fallen upon of making me a re-
mittance here ; for I have little expectation that the
instruction will be recalled on my application. With
great esteem, I have the honor to be, sir, etc.,

B. Franklin.

DLXXVI

TO THOMAS GUSHING

London, 30 June, 1774.

Sir : — I received your favor of April 30th. By the
next Boston ship I shall send you all the perfected
acts lately passed relating to our province, of which
I sent you copies while in the state of bills. Till then
I defer any remarks on them. At present, I only
send copies of two more letters of Mr. Hutchinson's.
The Chancery suit goes on against me on account of
the former. With great respect, I have the honor to
be, sir, your most obedient humble servant,

B. Franklin.

1774] Benjamin Franklin 347

DLXXVII

TO MR. COOMBE '

London, 22 July, 1774.

Dear Friend: — I received with great pleasure
yours of May 15th, as it informed me of your health
and happiness. I thank you for your sermon, which
I read with satisfaction. I am glad that of my good
bishop pleased you. I enclose a speech of his on the
same subject. It is deemed here a masterpiece of elo-
quence. I send also the last edition of some lines
of your friend Goldsmith, with the addition of my
friend Whitefoord's epitaph, whom you may remem-
ber. Also the "Heroic Postscript," the author of
which is yet unknown. He may be fond of fame as a
poet; but, if he is, his prudence predominates at
present, and prevails with him to shun it.

That which you are acquiring, as an orator, gives
me pleasure as your friend ; and it will give you the
most solid satisfaction, if you find that by your elo-
quence you can turn many to righteousness. With-
out this effect, the preacher or the priest, in my
opinion, is not merely sounding brass or a tinkling
cymbal, which are innocent things; he is rather like
the cunning man in the Old Bailey, who conjures and

' In a letter to his son, dated London, February 3, 1772, Dr. Franklin
says: "This will be delivered to you by the Rev. Mr. Coombe, whom I
recommend to your friendship as a young gentleman of great merit,
integrity, and abilities. He has acquired the esteem of all that knew
him here, not as an excellent preacher only, but as practising the
morality he preached. I wish him a good settlement in his native
country, but I think he would better have fotmd his interest in re-
maining here."

348 The Works of [1774

tells fools their fortunes to cheat them out of their
money.

Mrs. Stevenson and Mrs. Hewson return your com-
pliments, with their best wishes. We have lost Mr.
Hewson, and a great loss it was. My respects to
your good father. Adieu, my dear friend, and
believe me, yours most affectionately,

B. Franklin.

DLXXVIII

TO MRS. DEBORAH FRANKLIN

London, 22 July, 1774.

My Dear Child: — I have had no line from you
by several late opportunities. I flatter myself it is
owing not to indisposition, but to the opinion of my
having left England, which indeed I hope soon to do.

I enclose a letter I have just received from your
goddaughter, Mrs. Barry. I wrote to you before that
she had married the captain of a ship in the Levant
trade. She is now again at Tunis, where you will
see she has lately lain in of her third child. Her
father, you know, was a geographer,' and his daugh-
ter has some connection, I think, with the whole
globe ; being bom herself in America, and having her
first child in Asia, her second in Europe, and now her
third in Africa.

Mrs. Stevenson presents her best respects. She too
is very happy in her two grandsons. Her daughter,

^ Lewis Evans, of Philadelphia, the author of maps and geographical
writings on some parts of America. — Sparks.

1774] Benjamin Franklin 349

our poor Polly, who lately lost her good husband,
has become rich by the death of her aunt. I am ever,
my dear Debby, your affectionate husband,

B. Franklin.

DLXXIX

TO THOMAS GUSHING

London, 27 July, 1774.

Sir: — The last line I have been favored with from
you is of the 30th of April. I have since written to
you several times. I hope oiir correspondence is not
intercepted.

This serves to cover a pamphlet or two just pub-
lished here,' of which I shall send you a number, as I
think it may be of use in America to see what senti-
ments are entertained here ; and believing they may
be of use here, I have been at some expense in pro-
moting the publication. With great respect, I am,

etc.,

B. Franklin.

DLXXX

TO WILLIAM franklin

London, 7 September, 1774.

Dear Son: — I am glad you have met with my
friend Barrows. I wish you to cultivate his acquaint-
ance, and that of Mrs. Barrows, who is an amiable

* Probably A True State of the Proceedings in the Parliament of Great
Britain, etc., and On the Rise and Progress of the Differences between
Great Britain and her American Colonies. See supra, p. 312.

350 The Works of [1774

woman. I am much obliged to Mr. Panton for his
information relating to Mr. Parker's affairs. Cousin
Jonathan Williams is now with me, and engaged in
posting and settling my accounts, which will be done
before the next packet, when I shall send what con-
cerns Parker.

You mention that my presence is wished for at the
Congress, but no person besides in America has
given me the least intimation of such a desire, and it
is thought by the great friends of the colonies here,
that I ought to stay till the result of the Congress
arrives, when my presence here may be useful. All
depends on the Americans themselves. If they
make, and keep firmly, resolutions not to consume
British manufactures till their grievances are re-
dressed, this ministry must fall, and the laws be re-
pealed. This is the opinion of all the wise men
here.

I hear nothing of the proposal you have made for
a congress of governors. I do not wonder so much
as you do, that the Massachusetts have not offered
payment for the tea. First, because of the uncer-
tainty of the act, which gives them no security that
the port shall be opened on their making that pay-
ment. Secondly, no precise sum is demanded.
Thirdly, no one knows what will satisfy the custom-
house officers, nor who the others are that must be
satisfied, nor what will satisfy them. And fourthly,
they are in the king's power, after all, as to how much
of the port shall be opened. As to " doing justice be-
fore they ask it," that should have been thought of
by the legislature here before they demanded it of

1774] Benjamin Franklin 351

the Bostonians. They have extorted many thou-
sand pounds from America unconstitutionally, under
color of acts of Parliament, and with an armed force.
Of this money they ought to make restitution.
They might first have taken out payment for the tea,
and returned the rest. But you, who are a thorough
courtier, see every thing with government eyes.

I am sorry for the loss of Sir William Johnson,
especially at this time of danger from an Indian
war.' I see by the papers that you were with him at
the time. A Spanish war is now seriously appre-
hended, and the stocks of course are falling. The
August packet is hourly expected, when I hope to
hear of your safe return and health.
Your affectionate father,

B. Franklin.

DLXXXI

TO PETER TIMOTHY, CHARLESTON, S. C.

London, 7 September, 1774.

Dear Sir: — I received your favor of May 26th,
and am much obliged by your kind invitation to your
house, which I should certainly accept with pleasure
if I should ever go to Carolina.

You wish me to correspond with you on public af-
fairs. Those relating to America have been, and
still continue, in so disagreeable a situation that I
cannot write to you upon them with pleasure. Much

' Sir William Johnson died at the place of his residence, near the
Mohawk River, on the nth of July, 1774.

352 The Works of [1774

depends on yourselves. If at the intended Congress
your deputies are nearly unanimous in declaring
your rights, and in resolving firmly against all impor-
tations from hence till those rights are acknowledged
here, you cannot well fail of carrying your point.
This ministry must go out, and give place to men of
juster and more generous principles. If you divide,
you are lost.

I believe I shall stay here another winter, and shall
be glad to hear of the welfare of you and yours.
My love and blessing to my little namesake. If you
send me any of your papers by the packet, I shall
receive them free of expense ; for, though I now pay
for my letters, they do not charge me for newspapers.
I am ever, dear sir, etc.,

B. Franklin.

DLXXXII

FROM SAMUEL COOPER

Boston, 9 September, 1774.

Dear Sir: — My last was on the 15th of August, in
which I gave you some account of the state of our
affairs. About twenty of the council appointed by
the king took the oath; since which, one half, not
being able to stand the public odium, have resigned.
All who now hold the commissions, not living in Bos-
ton, have retired here, tmder the protection of the
army. Our superior court of justice met here, with
the chief -justice at their head; but the juries, to a
man, refused to serve. The courts through the

1774] Benjamin Franklin 353

province are at an end. Sheriffs, justices, and clerks
have either made their peace with the people, by
solemnly promising not to act upon the new laws, or
have fled to this poor proscribed town as an asylum.
The lieutenant-governor, who was obliged to resign
his commission as counsellor, at his house in Cam-
bridge, being surrounded with four thousand people;
and his neighbors, Sewall, the attorney-general,
sheriff Phips, and Borland, live in Boston. Town
meetings are held all over the provinces; even at
Salem and in Dan vers, while General Gage resided
there with a regiment and two additional companies.
He, indeed, ordered a warrant to be made out against
the committee of correspondence in Salem, who
called the meeting. Two gave bonds for their ap-
pearance, three refused and were let alone. The
justice, I am told, who issued the warrant has since
acknowledged his error, and asked pardon of the
people.

These things have been effected chiefly by county
meetings, composed from delegates of the several
towns. A provincial congress of delegates from all
the counties is soon to be held at Concord. The peo-
ple say their all is at stake; they act only on the
defensive; should they allow the new regulations to
take place, property and life are at the mercy of men
incensed against them, and they should soon be in-
capable of making any opposition, even a commercial
one. The people assembled at Cambridge were land-
holders, led by captains of the towns, representatives,
and committeemen. The selectmen and committee
of correspondence for this town went from hence to

VOL. VI. — 23.

354 The Works of [1774

confer with them, and prevent things from coming to
extremities; for a rumor had been propagated that
the whole coimtry, incensed at the governor's taking
the provincial powder by a party of soldiers from
Charlestown, and inflamed by false reports, were
coming to Boston to demand the restitution of the
powder, in the face of the army. Happily this did
not prove true ; and, if there were any misapprehen-
sions in the body, they were removed by the re-
presentations of the gentlemen from Boston, who
observed to them that the governor had a right to
dispose of the provincial military stores, though not
those that belonged to the towns, which he had not
as yet touched.

This movement of the governor occasioned, how-
ever, an extensive alarm. Reports flew through the
country that he was disarming the inhabitants of
Boston, and seizing all the ammunition through the
province ; and that the fleet and army had attacked
the town. These false reports being credited for
awhile, many thousands of people, especially in the
western parts of the province, were immediately in
arms, and in full march for this place, to relieve their
brethren or share their fate. Thousands were in
motion from Connecticut ; for the New England pro-
vinces are one in sentiment and spirit upon these
matters; but, being informed of facts, they quietly
returned home, sending their messengers from all
quarters, signifying their determination to act
unitedly upon any warrantable occasion.

I forgot to mention that Commissioner Hallowell
passed through Cambridge while the body was there.

1774] Benjamin Franklin 355

He had gone by some time when it was stated by
somebody that it might be proper to have a con-
ference with him. A number of men on horseback
instantly set out to bring him back, but were stopped
immediately by some gentlemen from Boston, and
dissuaded from their purpose. A single horseman of
his own head went on, and, coming up to him in a
chaise with a companion and a servant on horse-
back, told him he must stop and go back. Hallo-
well snapped his pistol twice at him, got upon his
servant's horse, rode with the utmost speed to town,
followed by the horseman, till he came within call
of the guard at the entrance of the town.

An apprehension was soon spread through the
camp that the country was coming in against them
in armed multitudes. The guards were doubled,
cannon were placed on the Neck, and the army lay
on their arms through the night. The entrance into
this town is now fortifying by the soldiery. The
selectmen have remonstrated to the governor that,
if he goes on, the inhabitants are so uneasy they
must abandon the town; which they declare they
had rather do, and see it in flames, than be totally
enslaved in it. Transports are despatched to New
York and Quebec for more troops, though we have
already five regiments, with a large train; one more
at the castle, and another coming from Salem. At
that place about thirty chests of tea lately arrived
from London, which the inhabitants will not permit
to be landed. What, my dear sir, will be the end of
these things? The country seems determined to run
all hazards in defence of their rights.

35^ The Works of [1774

I send this by Mr. Quincy, a gentleman bred to the
law, highly esteemed for his parts and learning, a
warm friend to the rights of America. He has pub-
lished a pamphlet on the Port Bill, and been encour-
aged by some of the most respectable gentlemen
among us to make a visit to England, as he is capable
of giving the best account of our affairs. To him
I must refer you for further particulars. I have
written facts to the best of my knowledge, and, leav-
ing you to reason or conjecture from them, I am, etc.,

Samuel Cooper.

DLXXXIII

TO THOMAS GUSHING

London, 15 September, 1774.

Sir : — I received last week only your favor of June
27th, and I have received no other from you since
that of April 30th. You complain of hearing seldom
from me, and yet I have written oftener this year
than ever before. I apprehend our letters are in-
tercepted. I hope you have received mine of June
ist, for in that you will find the dates of many of the
letters I had written before that time ; and I wish
that for the future you would be so good as to men-
tion the dates of those you receive, as I shall always
do for your satisfaction of those I receive from you.

I rejoice to find that the whole continent have so
justly, wisely, and unanimously taken up our cause as
their own. This is an unexpected blow to the min-
istry, who relied on our being neglected by every

1774] Benjamin Franklin 357

other colony; this they depended on as another
circumstance that must force our immediate submis-
sion, of which they were likewise perfectly sure.
They are now a Httle disconcerted, but I hear yet
from that quarter no talk of retreating or changing
of measures. The language of those about the court
rather is that the king must now go on, whatever
may be the consequence. On the other hand, our
friends are increasing and endeavoring to unite. I
have been taking pains among them, to show the
mischief that must arise to the whole from a dismem-
bering of the empire, which all the measures of the
present mad administration have a tendency to ac-
complish, and which can only be prevented by such a
union of the friends of liberty in both Houses as will
compel a change of that administration and those
measures. I must not now relate to you with whom
I have conferred, nor the conversation I have had on
this subject, lest my letter fall into wrong hands; but
I may say I have reason to think a strong push will be
made at the very beginning of the session to have all
the late acts reversed, and a solemn assurance given
America that no future attempts shall be made to tax
us without our consent. Much depends on the pro-
ceedings of the Congress. All sides are inquiring
when an account of them may be expected. And I
am advised by no means to leave England till they
arrive. Their unanimity and firmness will have great
weight here, and probably unhorse the present wild
riders.

I enclose a copy of mine mentioned above. Since
that date I have written several short letters to you.

358 The Works of [1774

including the Bishop of St. Asaph's speech (which
is admired here as a masterpiece of eloquence and
wisdom), an address to Protestant Dissenters, and
sundry other pieces and papers that I have been in-
strumental in writing, printing, or publishing here.
It would encourage me, if you could find time to
acknowledge the receipt of such things, and let me
know how they were approved. Nothing material
has passed here in public affairs since the rising of
Parliament. Great preparations are now making for
the election of a new one; and a war with Spain is
apprehended, but will be avoided if possible.

I am, sir, with great esteem and respect, your most
obedient, humble servant,

B. Franklin.

P. S. — The bishop's speech has had four editions,
the last of 5,000 in number.

DLXXXIV

TO MRS. JANE MECOM

London, 26 September, 1774.

Dear Sister: — I hope you continue in health, as
I do, thanks to God. But I wish to know how you
fare in the present distress of our dear country. I
am apprehensive, that the letters between us, though
very innocent ones, are intercepted. They might
restore to me yours at least, after reading them;
especially as I never complain of broken, patched-up

1774] Benjamin Franklin 359

seals (of late very common), because I know not on
whom to fix the fact.

I see in a Boston paper of August i8th, an article
expressing, " that it is generally believed Dr. Frank-
lin has received a promise of being restored to the
royal favor, and promoted to an office superior to that
which he resigned." I have made no public answer
to any of the abuses I have received in any of the
papers here, nor shall I to this. But as I am anxious
to preserve your good opinion, and as I know your
sentiments, and that you must be much afflicted your-
self, and even despise me, if you thought me capable
of accepting any office from this government, while
it is acting with so much hostility towards my native
country, I cannot miss this first opportunity of assur-
ing you, that there is not the least foundation for
such a report ; that, so far from having any promise
of royal favor, I hear of nothing but royal and minis-
terial displeasure ; which, indeed, as things at present
stand, I consider as an honor. I have seen no min-
ister since January, nor had the least communication
with them. The generous and noble friends of Amer-
ica in both Houses do indeed favor me with their
notice and regard ; but they are in disgrace at court,
as well as myself. Be satisfied, that I shall do noth-
ing to lessen me in your esteem, or my own. I shall
not, by the least concurrence with the present meas-
ures, merit any court favor, nor accept of any, if it
were offered me, which, however, is not at all likely
to happen.

As those here who most interest themselves in be-
half of America conceive that my being present at

36o The Works of [1774

the arrival of the proceedings of the Congress and
the meeting of Parliament may be of use, I submit
to their judgment, and think it now likely that I shall
not return till spring. I am ever, etc.

B. Franklin.

DLXXXV

TO THOMAS GUSHING

London, 27 September, 1774.

Sir : — I wrote to you lately by the Boston packet,
Capt. Shepherd, and by several preceding convey-
ances. I should be glad to hear from you what
letters of mine came to your hands, as I suspect they
are often intercepted.

The ministers have for some time been out of town,
as well as those of both Houses who are friends of
America. But the latter have frequent communica-
tions, for the piirpose of dropping their private mis-
understandings, and uniting in the public cause,
which at present needs all their joint assistance, since
a breach with America, hazarded by the late harsh
measures, may be ruinous to the general welfare of
the British empire. In forwarding this good work
among them, as far as my little endeavors may
amount to, I have been for some time industriously
engaged. I see some letters in your newspapers, said
to be written from hence, which represent Lord Chat-
ham as having deserted your cause. I can of my own
certain knowledge assure you of the contrary, and
that his sentiments are such as you could wish. It

1774] Benjamin Franklin 361

was thought the ParUament would meet in Novem-
ber; but the talk now is, that it will be further pro-
rogued till January, that government may be in full
possession of the proceedings of the Congress, and the
views of the Americans. With great respect, I am,
sir, your most obedient humble servant,

B. Franklin.

DLXXXVI

TO RICHARD BACHE

London, 30 September, 1774.

Dear Son: — The bearer, Mr. Thomas Paine, is
very well recommended to me, as an ingenious,
worthy young man. He goes to Pennsylvania with
a view of settling there. I request you to give him
your best advice and countenance, as he is quite a
stranger there. If you can put him in a way of
obtaining employment as a clerk, or assistant tutor
in a school, or assistant surveyor (of all which I
think him very capable), so that he may procure
subsistence at least, till he can make acquaintance
and obtain a knowledge of the country, you will do
well, and much oblige your affectionate father. My
love to Sally and the boys."

B. Franklin.

* In the first letter which Paine wrote to Dr. Franklin from Phila-
delphia, he said: "Your countenancing me has obtained for me many-
friends and much reputation, for which please to accept my most sin-
cere thanks. I have been applied to by several gentlemen to instruct
their sons, on very advantageous terms to myself; and a printer and
bookseller here, a man of reputation and property, Robert Aitkin, has
lately attempted a magazine, but, having little or no turn that way

362 The Works of [1774

DLXXXVII

TO JOSEPH GALLOWAY

London, 12 October, 1774.

Dear Sir: — I wrote to you on the ist instant by
Captain Cook, acquainting you with the disposition
of Parliament, since which the elections are going on
briskly everywhere for a new one. The electors of
London, Westminster, the borough of Southwark
and the county of Middlesex, have obliged their
candidates to sign a written engagement, that they
will endeavor to obtain a repeal of the late oppressive
and unconstitutional American laws, and promote
a reconciliation between the two countries. Their
example will be followed in some other places, and it
is thought would have been pretty general in the
trading and manufacturing towns, if the suddenness
of the dissolution had not hurried things too much.

It being objected to one of the candidates set up
for Westminster, Lord Percy, that he is absent on
the wicked business of cutting the throats of our
American brethren, his friends have thought neces-
sary this morning to publish a letter of his, expressing
that he is on good terms with the people of Boston,
and much respected by them. These circumstances
show that the American cause begins to be more
popular here. Yet the court talk boldly of persisting
in their measures, and three ships of the line are

himself, he has applied to me for assistance. He had not above six
hundred subscribers when I first assisted him. We have now upwards
of fifteen hundred, and daily increasing. I have not entered into
terms with him. This is only the second number. The first I was
not concerned in." — March 4th, 1775.

1774] Benjamin Franklin 363

fitting out for America, which are to be over-manned,
to have a double number of marines, and several
armed tenders. It is rumored they are to stop all
the ports of America.

Many think the new Parliament will be for re-
versing the late proceedings; but that depends on
the court, on which every Parliament seems to be
dependent; so much so, that I begin to think the
ParHament here of little use to the people ; for since
a parHament is always to do as a ministry would
have it, why should we not be governed by the
ministry in the first instance? They could afford to
govern us much cheaper, the Parliament being a very
expensive machine, that requires a great deal of oil-
ing and greasing at the people's charge; for they
finally pay all the enormous salaries of places, the
pensions, and the bribes, now by custom become
necessary to induce the members to vote according
to their consciences.

My situation here is thought by many to be a little
hazardous; for if, by some accident, the troops and
people of New England should come to blows, I
should probably be taken up ; the ministerial people
affecting everywhere to represent me as the cause of
all the misunderstanding ; and I have been frequently
cautioned to secure my papers, and by some advised
to withdraw. But I venture to stay, in compliance
with the wish of others, till the result of the Congress
arrives, since they suppose my being here might on
that occasion be of use ; and I confide on my inno-
cence, that the worst which can happen to me will be
an imprisonment upon suspicion, though that is a

364 The Works of [1774

thing I should much desire to avoid, as it may be ex-
pensive and vexatious, as well as dangerous to my
health. With great respect and esteem, I am ever,
dear sir, etc., B. Franklin.

DLXXXVIII

A PARABLE ON PERSECUTION

1. And it came to pass after these things, that
Abraham sat in the door of his tent, about the going
down of the sun.

2. And behold a man, bowed with age, came from
the way of the wilderness, leaning on a staff.

3. And Abraham arose and met him, and said imto
him: "Turn in, I pray thee, and wash thy feet, and
tarry all night, and thou shalt arise early on the mor-
row, and go on thy way."

4. But the man said : " Nay, for I will abide under
this tree."

5. And Abraham pressed him greatly; so he
turned and they went into the tent, and Abraham
baked unleavened bread, and they did eat.

6. And when Abraham saw that the man blessed
not God, he said unto him: "Wherefore dost thou
not worship the most high God, Creator of heaven
and earth?"

7. And the man answered and said: " I do not
worship the God thou speakest of, neither do I call
upon his name; for I have made to myself a god,
which abideth alway in mine house, and provideth
me with all things."

1774] Benjamin Franklin 3^5

8. And Abraham's zeal was kindled against the
man, and he arose and fell upon him, and drove him
forth with blows into the wilderness.

g. And at midnight God called unto Abraham,
saying: "Abraham, where is the stranger?"

10. And Abraham answered and said: "Lord, he
would not worship thee, neither would he call upon
thy name ; therefore have I driven him out from be-
fore my face into the wilderness."

11. And God said: " Have I borne with him these
himdred and ninety and eight years, and nourished
him, and clothed him, notwithstanding his rebellion
against me ; and couldst not thou, that art thyself a
sinner, bear with him one night?"

12. And Abraham said: " Let not the anger of the
Lord wax hot against his servant; lo, I have sinned;
lo, I have sinned; forgive me, I pray thee."

13. And Abraham arose, and went forth into the
wilderness, and sought diligently for the man, and
found him, and returned with him to the tent; and
when he had entreated him kindly, he sent him away
on the morrow with gifts.

14. And God spake again unto Abraham, saying:
" For this thy sin shall thy seed be afflicted four hun-
dred years in a strange land.

15. "But for thy repentance will I deliver them;
and they shall come forth with power, and with glad-
ness of heart, and with much substance."

In the year 1774 Lord Karnes, in the second volume of
his Sketches of the History of Man, introduced the sub-
stance of the foregoing parable with these words: "The

366 The Works of [1774

following parable against persecution was communicated
to me by Dr. Franklin of Philadelphia, a man who makes
a great figure in the learned world, and who would still
make a greater figure for benevolence and candor, were
virtue as much regarded in this declining age as knowledge y^

From the manner in which it was here presented to
the public, it was naturally inferred and taken for granted
that Franklin was its author. Some surprise, therefore,
was manifested when it was discovered not long after
that a parable of substantially the same import was
found in Jeremy Taylor's Liberty of Prophesying, pub-
lished in 1657, and which he professed to have found "in
the Jews' books." Curiosity was now provoked to find
whence or from what Jews' books the parable was taken.
At length it was discovered in the Latin dedication to the
Senate of Hamburg of a rabbinical work entitled The Rod
of Judah. The translator, Genz, gives the story sub-
stantially as it is given by Jeremy Taylor. The only
important difference is the answer made to Abraham,
which in Genz's preface reads as follows: "I am a fire-
worshipper, and ignorant of manners of this kind, for our
ancestors have taught us no such observance." Per-
ceiving with horror from his speech that he had to do
with a profane fire-worshipper, and a person alien to the
worship of his God, Abraham drove him from his table
and his abode, as one whose intercourse was contagious,
and as a foe to his religion. ^^

Genz attributed the authorship of the parable to the

1 It is a noteworthy circvimstance that in the third edition of his
Sketches the words in italics are omitted. His Lordship, in spite of liis
admiration for Franklin, had to incHne before the prevailing breeze.

2 "Ad quae senex: 'Ego ignicola sum, istiusmodi morum ignarus;
nostri enim majores nullam talem me docuere pietatem.' Ad quam
vocem horrescens Abrahamus rem sibi cum ignicola profano et a svii
Ntmiinis cultu alieno esse, eum e vestigio et a coena remotiim, ut sui
consortii pestem et religionis hostem, domo ejicit."

1774] Benjamin Franklin 3^7

nohilisimus Autor Sadus. Following up this trail, the
parable was traced to the Bostan, or Flower Garden, of
the celebrated Persian poet Saadi. An English transla-
tion of it from this ancient poem was published in the
Asiatic Miscellany, at Calcutta, in 1789, and is quoted
from that work by Bishop Heber in his Life of Jeremy
Taylor.^ Saadi also gives the parable as " something that
he had heard once," and not an invention of his own.
But here the trail is lost. Whence Saadi derived it is a
matter of pure speculation. In his Gulistan there is an
allusion to an incident in his life which may throw some
light upon the remoter history of the parable. The poet
says that while he was a prisoner to the Crusaders, he
was set to work "with some Jews" on the trenches before
Tripoli. This being a period of high culture among the
Jews of Western Asia, it is not imlikely that among
the prisoners of that race that fell into the hands of the
Christians, some of them may have been men of refine-
ment and learning, like Saadi himself, and may have
imparted this parable to him, either as of their own in-
vention or as a tradition. So far as we know, like
" Topsy," it had no parents — it grew.

When the parable was found among the writings of
Jeremy Taylor, Franklin, who was then residing in Eng-
land, was charged with plagiarism. To this the succeed-
ing number of the Repository, in which the charge had
appeared, contained a reply from Franklin's fast and
most respected friend, Benjamin Vaughan, disclaiming
any pretension on Franklin's part to have been the
author of the parable in question. He said: "This great
man, who at the same time that he was desirous of dis-
seminating an amiable sentiment, was an extreme lover
of pleasantry, often endeavored to put off the parable in

' For an account of Saadi, see Everett's Mt. Vernon Papers, and
Saadi's life by Harrington.

368 The Works of [1774

question upon his acquaintance as a portion of Scripture,
and probably thought this one of the most successful
modes of circulating its moral. This object would cer-
tainly have been defeated, had he prefixed to the printed
copies of the parable, which he was fond of dispersing,
an intimation of its author. He therefore gave no name
whatever to it, much less his own. And often as I have
heard of his amusing himself on this occasion, I never
could learn that he ascribed to himself the merit of the
invention. His good humor constantly led him into a
train of amusing stories concerning the persons who had
mistaken it for Scripture (for he had bound it up as a leaf
in his Bible, the better to impose upon them), which,
perhaps, made the point of authorship be forgotten."

In a letter to Vaughan, dated November 2, 1789, Frank-
lin says that he never published it, "nor claimed any
other credit from it, than what related to the style and
the addition of the concluding threatening and promise."

Whoever was the original author of this parable, it is
very clear that it was Franklin that put the royal image
and superscription upon it that gave it its currency
throughout the world. — Editor.

DLXXXIX

A PARABLE ON BROTHERLY LOVE

1 . In those days there was no worker of iron in all
the land. And the merchants of Midian passed by
with their camels, bearing spices, and myrrh, and
balm, and wares of iron.

2, And Reuben bought an axe of the Ishmaelite
merchants, which he prized highly, for there was
none in his father's house.

1774] Benjamin Franklin 369

3. And Simeon said tinto Reuben his brother,
" Lend me, I pray thee, thine axe." But he refused,
and would not.

4. And Levi also said unto him : " My brother, lend
me, I pray thee, thine axe ' ' ; and he refused him also.

5. Then came Judah unto Reuben, and entreated
him, saying: " Lo, thou lovest me, and I have always
loved thee ; do not refuse me the use of thine axe. "

6. But Reuben ttimed from him, and refused him
likewise.

7. Now it came to pass, that Reuben hewed timber
on the bank of the river, and his axe fell therein, and
he could by no means find it.

8. But Simeon, Levi, and Judah had sent a mes-
senger after the Ishmaelites, with money, and had
bought for themselves each an axe.

9. Then came Reuben unto Simeon, and said: " Lo
I have lost mine axe, and my work is imfinished ; lend
me thine, I pray thee."

10. And Simeon answered him, saying: "Thou
wouldest not lend me thine axe, therefore will I not
lend thee mine."

11. Then went he unto Levi, and said unto him:
"My brother, thou knowest my loss and my neces-
sity; lend me, I pray thee, thine axe."

12. And Levi reproached him, saying: "Thou
wouldest not lend me thine axe when I desired it,
but I will be better than thou, and will lend thee
mine."

13. And Reuben was grieved at the rebuke of Levi,
and being ashamed, turned from him, and took not
the axe, but sought his brother Judah.

370 The Works of [1774

14. And as he drew near, Judah beheld his coun-
tenance as it were covered with grief and shame;
and he prevented him, saying: " My brother, I know
thy loss; but why should it trouble thee? Lo, have
I not an axe that will serve both thee and me ? Take
it, I pray thee, and use it as thine own."

15. And Reuben fell on his neck, and kissed him,
with tears, saying: "Thy kindness is great, but thy
goodness in forgiving me is greater. Thou art in-
deed my brother, and whilst I live, will I surely love
thee."

16. And Judah said: "Let us also love our other
brethren; behold, are we not all of one blood?"

17. And Joseph saw these things, and reported
them to his father Jacob.

18. And Jacob said: "Reuben did wrong, but he
repented. Simeon also did wrong ; and Levi was not
altogether blameless.

19. "But the heart of Judah is princely. Judah
hath the soul of a king. His father's children shall
bow down before him, and he shall rule over his
brethren."

DXC

AN ACCOUNT OF THE TRANSACTIONS RELATING TO

GOVERNOR Hutchinson's letters

Having been from my youth more or less engaged
in public affairs, it has often happened to me in the
course of my life to be censured sharply for the part
I took in them. Such censures I have generally

1774] Benjamin Franklin 371

passed over in silence, conceiving, when they were
just, that I ought rather to amend than defend ; and,
when they were undeserved, that a little time would
justify me. Much experience has confirmed my
opinion of the propriety of this conduct ; for, notwith-
standing the frequent, and sometimes the virulent at-
tacks which the jostlings of party interests have
drawn upon me, I have had the felicity of bringing
down to a good old age as fair a reputation (may I be
permitted to say it ?) as most public men that I have
known, and have never had reason to repent my
neglecting to defend it.

I should therefore (persisting, as old men ought to
do, in old habits) have taken no notice of the late in-
vective of the solicitor-general, nor of the abundant
abuse in the papers, were I not urged to it by my
friends, who say, that the first, being delivered by a
public officer of government before a high and most
respectable court, the Privy Council, and counten-
anced by its report, and the latter having that for its
foundation, it behooves me, more especially as I am
about leaving this country, to furnish them with the
knowledge of such facts as may enable them to justify
to others their good opinion of me. This compels me
to the present undertaking; for otherwise, having
for some time past been gradually losing all public
connections, declining my agencies, determined on
retiring to my little family, that I might enjoy the
remainder of life in private repose, indifferent to
the opinion of courtiers, as having nothing to seek
or wish among them, and being secure that time
would soon lay the dust which prejudice and party

372 The Works of [1774

have so lately raised, I should not think of giving
myself the trouble of writing, and my friends of
reading, an apology for my political conduct.

That this conduct may be better understood, and
its consistency more apparent, it seems necessary that
I should first explain the principles on which I have
acted. It has long appeared to me that the only
true British policy was that which aimed at the good
of the whole British empire, not that which sought
the advantage of one part in the disadvantage of the
others; therefore all measures of procuring gain to
the mother country arising from loss to her colonies,
and all of gain to the colonies arising from or occa-
sioning loss to Britain, especially where the gain was
small and the loss great, every abridgment of the
power of the mother country, where that power was
not prejudicial to the liberties of the colonists, and
every diminution of the privileges of the colonists,
where they were not prejudicial to the welfare of the
mother country, I, in my own mind, condemned as
improper, partial, unjust, and mischievous, tending
to create dissensions, and weaken that union on
which the strength, solidity, and duration of the em-
pire greatly depended ; and I opposed, as far as my
little powers went, all proceedings, either here or in
America, that in my opinion had such tendency.
Hence it has often happened to me that while I
have been thought here too much of an American,
I have in America been deemed too much of an
Englishman.

From a thorough inquiry (on occasion of the Stamp
Act) into the nature of the connection between

1774] Benjamin Franklin 373

Britain and the colonies, I became convinced that
the bond of their union is not the Parliament, but
the king. That, in removing to America, a coun-
try out of the realm, they did not carry with them
the statutes then existing; for, if they did, the Puri-
tans must have been subject there to the same griev-
ous act of conformity, tithes, spiritual courts, etc.,
which they meant to be free from by going thither;
and in vain would they have left their native country,
and all the conveniences and comforts of its improved
state, to combat the hardships of a new settlement
in a distant wilderness, if they had taken with them
what they meant to fly from, or if they had left a
power behind them, capable of sending the same
chains after them to bind them in America. They
took with them, however, by compact, their allegiance
to the king, and a legislative power for the making a
new body of laws with his assent, by which they were
to be governed. Hence they became distinct states,
under the same prince, united as Ireland is to the
crown, but not to the realm of England, and gov-
erned each by its own laws, though with the same
sovereign, and having each the right of granting its
own money to that sovereign.

At the same time I considered the king's supreme
authority over all the colonies as of the greatest im-
portance to them, affording a dernier ressort for set-
tling all their disputes, a means of preserving peace
among them with each other, and a centre in which
their common force might be united against a com-
mon enemy. This authority I therefore thought,
when acting within its due limits, should be ever as

374 The Works of [1774

carefully supported by the colonists as by the inhab-
itants of Britain.

In conformity with these principles, and as agent
for the colonies, I opposed the Stamp Act, and en-
deavored to obtain its repeal, as an infringement of
the rights of the colonists, of no real advantage
to Britain, since she might ever be sure of greater
aids from our voluntary grants than she could expect
from arbitrary taxes, as by losing our respect and
affection, on which much of her commerce with us
depended, she would lose more in that commerce
than she could possibly gain by such taxes, and as it
was detrimental to the harmony which had till then
so happily subsisted, and which was so essential to
the welfare of the whole. And to keep up, as much
as in me lay, a reverence for the king and a respect
for the British nation on that side the water, and, on
this, some regard for the colonies (both tending to
promote that harmony), I industriously, on all occa-
sions, in my letters to America, represented the
measures that were grievous to them as being neither
royal nor national measures, but the schemes of an
administration, which wished to recommend itself for
its ingenuity in finance, or to avail itself of new reve-
nues in creating, by places and pensions, new depen-
dencies; for that the king was a good and gracious
prince, and the people of Britain their real friends.
And on this side the water, I represented the people
of America as fond of Britain, concerned for its inter-
est and its glory, and without the least desire of a
separation from it. In both cases I thought, and still
think, I did not exceed the bounds of truth, and I

1774] Benjamin Franklin 375

have the heartfelt satisfaction attending good in-
tentions, even when they are not successful.

With these sentiments I could not but see with
concern the sending of troops to Boston; and their
behavior to the people there gave me infinite un-
easiness, as I apprehended from that measure the
worst of consequences, a breach between the two
countries. And I was the more concerned when I
found that it was considered there as a national meas-
ure (since none here opposed it), and as a proof that
Britain had no longer a paternal regard for them. I
myself in conversation sometimes spoke of it in this
light, and I own with some resentment (being myself
a native of that country), till I was, to my great sur-
prise, assured by a gentleman of character and dis-
tinction (whom I am not at present permitted to
name), that not only the measure I particularly cen-
sured so warmly, but all the other grievances we com-
plained of, took their rise, not from the government
here, but were projected, proposed to administration,
solicited, and obtained, by some of the most respect-
able among the Americans themselves, as necessary
measures for the welfare of that country. As I could
not readily assent to the probability of this, he under-
took to convince me, and he hoped, through me (as
their agent here), my countrymen. Accordingly, he
called on me some days after, and produced to me
these very letters from Lieutenant-Governor Hutch-
inson, Secretary Oliver, and others, which have since
been the subject of so much discussion.

Though astonished, I could not but confess myself
convinced, and I was ready, as he desired, to convince

376 The Works of [1774

my countrymen ; for I saw, I felt indeed by its effect
upon myself, the tendency it must have toward
a reconciliation, which for the common good I earn-
estly wished. It appeared, moreover, my duty to give
my constituents intelligence of such importance to
their affairs; but there was some difficulty, as this
gentleman would not permit copies to be taken of
the letters; and, if that could have been done, the
authenticity of those copies might have been doubted
and disputed. My simple account of them, as papers
I had seen, would have been still less certain. I
therefore wished to have the use of the originals for
that purpose, which I at length obtained, on these
express conditions: that they should not be printed;
that no copies should be taken of them; that they
should be shown only to a few of the leading people
of the government ; and that they should be carefully
returned.

I accepted those conditions, and under the same
transmitted the original letters to the Committee of
Correspondence at Boston, without taking or reserv-
ing any copy of them for myself. I agreed the more
willingly to the restraint, from an apprehension that
a publication might, considering the state of irritation
in which the minds of the people there had long been
kept, occasion some riot of mischievous consequence.
I had no other scruple in sending them, for, as they
had been handed about here to injure that people,
why not use them for their advantage? The writers,
too, had taken the same liberty with the letters of
others, transmitting hither those of Rosne and Auch-
muty in confirmation of their own calumnies against

1774] Benjamin Franklin 377

the Americans; copies of some of mine, too, had
been returned here by officers of government. Why,
then, should theirs be exempt from the same treat-
ment? To whom they had been directed here I
could only conjecture; for I was not informed, and
there was no address upon them when I received
them. My letter, in which I enclosed them, ex-
pressed more fully the motives above mentioned for
sending them, and I shall presently give an extract
of so much of it as related to them.

But as it has, on the contrary, been roundly as-
serted that I did not, as agent, transmit those letters
to the Assembly's Committee of Correspondence;
that I sent them to a junto, my peculiar correspond-
ents; that, fearing to be known as the person who
sent them, I had insisted on the keeping that circum-
stance a secret ; that I had " shown the utmost solici-
tude to have that secret kept ' ' ; and as this has been
urged as a demonstrative proof that I was conscious
of guilt in the manner of obtaining them, and there-
fore feared a discovery so much as to have been afraid
of putting my name to the letter in which I enclosed
them, and which only appeared to be mine by my
well-known handwriting, I would here, previous to
that extract, observe, that on the same paper was
first written the copy of a preceding letter, which had
been first signed by me as usual; and accordingly,
the letter now in question began with these words,
" The above is a copy of my lasV; and all the first
part of it was on business transacted by me relating
to the affairs of the province, and particularly to two
petitions sent to me as agent by the Assembly, to be

378 The Works of [1774

presented to the king. These circumstances must
to every person there have as clearly shown me to be
the writer of that letter, as my well-known hand must
have done to those peculiar correspondents of my own,
to whom it is said I sent it. If then I hoped to be
concealed by not signing my name to such a letter, I
must have been as silly as that bird, which is sup-
posed to think itself unseen when it has hid only its
head. And if I could depend on my correspondents
keeping secret a letter and a transaction which they
must needs know were mine, I might as well have
trusted them with my name, and could have had no
motive for omitting it. In truth, all I insisted on was
(in pursuance of my engagement), that the letters
should not be printed or copied; but I had not at
the time the least thought or desire of keeping my
part in that transaction a secret; and, therefore, so
far from requesting it, I did not so much as give the
smallest intimation even that it would be agreeable
to me not to be mentioned on the occasion. And if
I had had that inclination, I must have been very
weak indeed to fancy that the person I wrote to, all
the rest of the Committee of Correspondence, five
other persons named, and ''such others as the com-
mittee might think fit to show them to," with three
gentlemen here to whom I had communicated the
matter, should all keep as a secret on my accoimt
what I did not state as a secret, or request should be
concealed.

So much of the letters as relates to the governor's
letters is as follows.

"On this occasion I think it fit to acquaint you,

1774] Benjamin Franklin 379

that there has lately fallen into my hands part of a
correspondence that I have reason to believe laid
the foundation of most, if not all our present griev-
ances. I am not at liberty to tell through what
channel I received it; and I have engaged that it
shall not be printed, nor copies taken of the whole,
or any part of it; but I am allowed to let it be
seen by some men of worth in the province, for
their satisfaction only. In confidence of your pre-
serving inviolably my engagement, I send you en-
closed the original letters, to obviate every pretence
of unfairness in copying, interpolation, or omission.
The hands of the gentlemen will be well known.
Possibly they may not like such an exposal of their
conduct, however tenderly and privately it may be
managed. But, if they are good men, or pretend to
be such, and agree that all good men wish a good un-
derstanding and harmony to subsist between the col-
onies and their mother country, they ought the less to
regret that, at the small expense of their reputation
for sincerity and public spirit among their compatri-
ots, so desirable an event may in some degree be for-
warded. For my own part, I cannot but acknowledge
that my resentment against this coimtry, for its arbi-
trary measures in governing us, conducted by the late
minister, has, since my conviction by these papers
that those measures were projected, advised, and
called for by men of character among ourselves, and
whose advice must therefore be attended with all the
weight that was proper to mislead, and which could
therefore scarce fail of misleading; my own resent-
ment, I say, has by this means been exceedingly

38o The Works of [1774

abated. / think they must have the same effect with
you; but I am not, as I have said, at liberty to make
the letters public. I can only allow them to be seen
by yourself, by the other gentlemen of the Committee
of Correspondence, by Messrs. Bowdoin and Pitts of
the Council, and Drs. Chauncey, Cooper, and Win-
throp, with a few such other gentlemen as you may
think fit to show them to. After being some months
in your possession, you are requested to return them
to me.

" As to the writers, I can easily as well as charitably
conceive it possible, that men educated in prepos-
sessions of the unbounded authority of Parliament,
etc., may think unjustifiable every opposition, even
to its unconstitutional exactions, and imagine it their
duty to suppress, as much as in them lies, such oppo-
sition. But, when I find them bartering away the
liberties of their native coimtry for posts, and nego-
tiating for salaries and pensions extorted from the
people ; and, conscious of the odium these might be
attended with, calling for troops to protect and secure
the enjoyment of them; when I see them exciting
jealousies in the crown, and provoking it to work
against so great a part of its most faithful subjects;
creating enmities between the different countries of
which the empire consists; occasioning a great ex-
pense to the old country for suppressing or pre-
venting imaginary rebellions in the new, and to the
new country for the payment of needless gratifica-
tions to useless officers and enemies, I cannot but
doubt their sincerity even in the poHtical principle
they profess, and deem them mere time-servers, seek-

1774] Benjamin Franklin 381

ing their own private emolument, through any quant-
ity of public mischief; betrayers of the interest, not
of their native country only, but of the government
they pretend to serve, and of the whole English
empire.

" With the greatest esteem and respect, I have the
honor to be, sir, your and the committee's most obe-
dient humble servant,

"B. Franklin."

My next letter is of January 5, 1773, to the same
gentleman,^ beginning with these words. " I did
myself the honor of writing to you on the 2d of De-
cember past, enclosing some original letters from
persons at Boston, which I hope got safe to hand";
and then it goes on with other business transacted
by me as agent, and is signed with my name as
usual. In truth I never sent an anonymous letter to
any person in America, since my residence in Lon-
don, unless where two or more letters happened to
be on the same paper, the first a copy of a preceding
letter, and the subsequent referring to the preceding ;
in that case, I may possibly have omitted signing
more than one of them, as unnecessary.

The first letter acknowledging the receipt of the
papers, is dated "Boston, March 24, 1773," and be-
gins thus: " I have just received your favor of the 2d
December last, with the several papers enclosed, for
which I am much obliged to you. I have commimi-
cated them to some of the gentlemen you mentioned.

^ This gentleman was Thomas Gushing, Speaker of the House of
Representatives in Massachusetts. — Editor.

382 The Works of [1774

They are of opinion that, though it might be incon-
venient to publish them, yet it might be expedient to
have copies taken and left on this side the water, as
there may be a necessity to make some use of them
hereafter; however, I read to them what you wrote
to me upon the occasion, and told them I could
by no means consent copies of them or any part of
them should be taken without your express leave;
that I would write to you upon the subject, and
strictly conform to your directions."

The next letter, dated April 20, 1773, begins
thus: " I wrote you in my last, that the gentlemen
to whom I had communicated the papers you sent
me under cover of yours of the 2d of December last
were of opinion that they ought to be retained on
this side the water, to be hereafter employed as the
exigency of our affairs may require, or at least that
authenticated copies ought to be taken before they
are returned. I shall have, I find, a very difficult
task properly to conduct this matter, unless you ob-
tain leave for their being retained or copied. I shall
wait your directions on this head, and hope they will
be such as will be agreeable to all the gentlemen, who
unanimously are of opinion that it can by no means
answer any valuable purpose to send them here for
the inspection of a few persons, barely to satisfy their
curiosity."

On the 9th of March, I wrote to the same person,
not having then received the preceding letters, and
mentioned my having written to him on the 2d of
December and 5th of January; and, knowing what
use was made against the people there, of every

1774] Benjamin Franklin 383

trifling mob, and fearing lest, if the letters should,
contrary to my directions, be made public, something
more serious of the kind might happen, I concluded
that letter thus: " I must hope that great care will
be taken to keep our people quiet, since nothing is
more wished for by our enemies, than that by in-
surrections we should give a good pretence for in-
creasing the military among us, and putting us under
more severe restraints. And it must be evident to
all, that by our rapidly increasing strength we shall
soon become of so much importance, that none of our
just claims and privileges will be, as heretofore, im-
attended to, nor any security we can wish for our
rights be denied us."

Mine of May 6th begins thus: "I have received
none of your favors, since that of November 28th.
I have since written to you of the following dates,
December 2d, January 5th, March 9th, and April 3d,
which I hope got safe to hand." Thus in two out of
three letters, subsequent to that of December 2d,
which enclosed the governor's letters, I mentioned
my writing that letter, which showed I could have no
intention of concealing my having written it; and
that therefore the assertion of my sending it anony-
mously is without probability.

In mine of June 2, 1773, I acknowledge the re-
ceipt of his letter of March 24th, and, not being able
to answer immediately his request of leave to copy
the letters, I said nothing of them then, postpon-
ing that subject to an opportimity which was ex-
pected two days after, viz., June 4th, when my letter
of that date concludes thus: "As to the letters I

384 The Works of [1774

communicated to you, though I have not been able
to obtain leave to take copies or publish them, I
have permission to let the originals remain with
you, as long as you may think it of any use to have
the originals in possession."

In mine of July 7th, 1773, I answer the above of
April 20th as follows ; " The letters communicated to
you were not merely to satisfy the curiosity of any,
but it was thought there might be a use in showing
them to some friends of the province, and even to
some of the governor's party, for their more certain
information concerning his conduct and politics,
though the letters were not made quite public. I
believe I have since written to you, that there was no
occasion to return them speedily ; and though I can-
not obtain leave as yet to suffer copies to be taken of
them, I am allowed to say that they may be shown
and read to whom and as many as you think proper. "

The same person wrote to me June 14, 1773, in
these terms: " I have endeavored inviolably to keep
to your injunctions with respect to the papers you
sent me ; I have shown them only to such persons as
you directed ; no one person, except Dr. Cooper and
one of the committee, knows from whom they came
or to whom they were sent. I have constantly
avoided mentioning your name upon the occasion,
so that it need never be known (if you incline to
keep it a secret) whom they came from, and to whom
they were sent ; and / desire, so far as I am concerned,
my name may not be mentioned; for it may he a
damage to me. I thought it, however, my duty to
communicate them as permitted, as they contained

1774] Benjamin Franklin 385

matters of importance that very nearly affected the
government. And, notwithstanding all my care and
precaution, it is now publicly known that all such
letters are here. Considering the number of persons
who were to see them (not less than ten or fifteen),
it is astonishing they did not get air before." Then
he goes on to relate how the Assembly, having heard
of them, obliged him to produce them, but engaged
not to print them; and that they afterwards did
nevertheless print them, having got over that en-
gagement by the appearance of copies in the House,
produced by a member, who it was reported had just
received them from England. This letter concludes :
" I have done all in my power strictly to conform to
your restrictions ; but, from the circumstances above
related, you must be sensible it was impossible to
prevent the letters being made public, and therefore
hope I shall be free from all blame respecting this
matter."

This letter accounts for its being, unexpectedly to
me, made a secret in Boston, that I had sent the let-
ters. The gentleman to whom I sent them had his
reasons for desiring not to be known as the person
who received and communicated them; but as this
would have been suspected, if it were known that I
sent them, that circimistance was to be kept a secret.
Accordingly they were given to another, to be by
him produced by the committee.

My answer to this was of July 25, 1773, as fol-
lows: " I am favored with yours of June 14th, con-
taining some copies of the resolves of the committee
upon the letters. I see by your account of the

VOL. VI. — 25.

386 The Works of [1774

transaction, that you could not well prevent what was
done. As to the report of other copies being come
from England, I think that could not be. It was an
expedient to disengage the House. I hope the pos-
session of the originals, and the proceedings upon
them, will be attended with salutary effects to the
province, and then I shall be well pleased. I observe
what you mention, that no person besides Dr. Cooper
and one of the committee knew they came from me.
I did not accompany them with any request of being
myself concealed ; for, believing what I did to be in
the way of my duty as agent, though I had no doubt
of its giving offence, not only to the parties exposed,
but to administration here, I was regardless of the
consequences. However, since the letters themselves
are now copied and printed, contrary to the promise
I made, I am glad my name has not been heard on
the occasion ; and, as I do not see it could be of any
use to the public, I now wish it may continue un-
known, though I hardly expect it. As to yours, you
may rely on my never mentioning it, except that
I may be obliged to show your letter in my own
vindication to the person only who might other-
wise think he had reason to blame me for breach of
engagement."

With the above-mentioned letter of the 14th of
June I received one from another of the gentlemen *
to whom the papers had been communicated, which
says: "By whom and to whom they were sent is
still a secret, known only to three persons here, and
may still remain so, if you desire it." My answer to

» The Reverend Dr. Cooper, of Boston. — Editor.

1774] Benjamin Franklin 387

him of July 25th was: "I accompanied them with
no restriction relating to myself; my duty to the
province as their agent, I thought, required the com-
munication of them so far as I could. I was sensible
I should make enemies there, and perhaps might
offend government here; but these apprehensions I
disregarded. I did not expect, and hardly still expect,
that my sending them could be kept a secret. But
since it is such hitherto, I now wish it may continue
so, because the publication of the letters, contrary
to my engagement, has changed the circumstances."
His reply to this, of the loth of November, is:
"After all the solicitous inquiries of the governor
and his friends respecting his letters, it still re-
mains a secret from and to whom they were sent
here. This is known, among us, to two only besides
myself, and will remain undiscovered, unless further
intelligence should come from your side the water
than I have reason to think has yet been obtained.
I cannot, however, but admire your honest openness
in this affair, and noble negligence of any inconven-
iences that might arise to yourself in this essential
service to our injured country."

To another friend ' I wrote of the same date, July
25th, what will show the apprehensions I was con-
stantly under, of the mischiefs that would attend a
breach from the exasperated state of things, and the
arguments I used to prevent it, viz. : "I am glad to
see that you are elected into the council, and are
about to take part in our public affairs. Your abili-

' Professor Winthrop, of Harvard College, a member of his Maj-
esty's Council in Massachusetts. — Editor.

388 The Works of [1774

ties, integrity, and sober attachment to the liberties
of our country will be of great use, at this tempestu-
ous time, in conducting our little bark into a safe
harbor. By the Boston newspapers there seem to be
among us some violent spirits, who are for an imme-
diate rupture. But I trust the general prudence of
our countrymen will see that by our growing strength
we advance fast to a situation in which our claims
must be allowed; that by a premature struggle we
may be crippled and kept down another age; that,
as between friends every affront is not worth a duel,
and between nations every injury is not worth a war,
so between the governed and the governing, every
mistake in government, every encroachment on
rights, is not worth a rebellion. It is, in my opinion,
sufficient for the present that we hold them forth on
all occasions, not giving up any of them; using, at
the same time, every means to make them generally
imderstood and valued by the people ; cultivating a
harmony among the colonies, that their imion in
the same sentiments may give them greater weight ;
remembering withal that this Protestant country (our
mother, though of late an imkind one) is worth pre-
serving; and that her weight in the scale of Europe,
her safety, in a great degree, may depend on our
union with her. Thus conducting, I am confident we
may within a few years obtain every allowance of,
and every security for, our inestimable privileges that
we can wish or desire."

His answer, of December 31st, is: "I concur per-
fectly with you in the sentiments expressed in
your last. No considerate person, I should think, can

1774] Benjamin Franklin 3^9

approve of your desperate remedies, except in de-
sperate cases. The people of America are extremely
agitated by the repeated efforts of administration
to subject them to absolute power. They have
been amused with accounts of the pacific dispo-
sition of the ministry, and flattered with assurances
that upon their humble petitions all their griev-
ances would be redressed. They have petitioned
from time to time ; but their petitions have had no
other effect than to make them feel more sensibly
their own slavery. Instead of redress, every year
has produced some new manoeuvre, which could
have no tendency but to irritate them more and more.
The last measure of the East India Company's send-
ing their tea here, subject to a duty, seems to have
given the finishing stroke to their patience. You will
have heard of the steps taken at Boston, New York,
and Philadelphia, to prevent the payment of this
duty, by sending the tea back to its owners. But as
this was found impossible at Boston, the destruction
of the tea was the consequence. What the event of
these commotions will be, God only knows. The
people through the colonies appear immovably fixed
in their resolution that the tea duty shall never be
paid ; and, if the ministry are determined to enforce
these measures, I dread the consequences; I verily
fear they will turn America into a field of blood.
But I will hope for the best."

I am told that administration is possessed of most
of my letters sent or received on public affairs for
some years past; copies of them having been ob-
tained from the files of the several Assemblies, or as

390 The Works of [1774

they passed through the post-office. I do not con-
demn their ministerial industry or complain of it.
The foregoing extracts may be compared with those
copies, and I can appeal to them with confidence that,
upon such comparison, these extracts will be found
faithfully made, and that the whole tenor of my
letters has been to persuade patience and a careful
guarding against all violence, under the grievances
complained of; and this from various considerations,
such as that the welfare of the empire depended upon
the union of its parts; that the sovereign was well
disposed towards us, and the body of his nation our
friends and well-wishers ; that it was the ministry only
who were prejudiced against us ; that the sentiments
of minsters might in time be changed, or the minis-
ters themselves be changed; or that, if those chances
failed, at least time would infallibly bring redress,
since the strength, weight, and importance of Amer-
ica were continually and rapidly increasing, and its
friendship, of course, daily becoming more valuable,
and more likely to be cultivated by an attention to its
rights. The newspapers have announced that trea-
son is found in some of my letters. It must then be
of some new species. The invention of court lawyers
has always been fruitful in the discovery of new
treasons, and perhaps it is now become treason to
censure the conduct of ministers. None of any other
kind, I am sure, can be found in my correspondence.
The effect of the governor's letters on the minds of
the people in New England, when they came to be
read there, was precisely what had been expected
and proposed by sending them over. It was now

1774] Benjamin Franklin 391

seen that the grievances which had been so deeply re-
sented as measures of the mother country, were in
fact the measures of two or three of their own peo-
ple. Of course, all that resentment was withdrawn
from her, and fell where it was proper it should fall,
on the heads of those caitiffs who were the authors
of the mischief. Both Houses ' took up the mat-
ter in this light, and the House of Representatives
agreed to the following resolves, reported by the
committee appointed to consider the letters, viz.:

The Committee appointed to consider certain Letters
laid before the House of Representatives , re-
ported the following Resolves:

Tuesday, June 15, 1773.

Resolved, That the letters signed Tho. Hutchinson
and Andw. Oliver, now under the consideration of
this House, appear to be the genuine letters of the
present governor and lieutenant-governor of this
province, whose handwriting and signatures are well
known to many of the members of this House ; and
that they contain aggravated accounts of facts and
misrepresentations, and that one manifest design of
them was to represent the matters they treat of in a
light highly injurious to this province, and the per-
sons against whom they were written.

Resolved, That though the letters aforesaid, signed
Tho. Hutchinson, are said by the governor in his mes-
sage to this House of June 9th to be " private letters

^ That is, the Council and House of Representatives of Massachu-
setts.— Editor.

392 The Works of [1774

written to a gentleman in London since deceased,"
and "that all except the last were written many
months before he came to the chair," yet that they
were written by the present governor when he was
lieutenant-governor and chief-justice of this province,
who has been represented abroad as eminent for his
abilities as for his exalted station, and was under no
official obligation to transmit private intelligence,
and that they therefore must be considered by the
person to whom they were sent as documents of solid
intelligence; and that this gentleman in London to
whom they were written, was then a member of the
British Parliament, and one who was very active in
American affairs, and therefore that these letters,
however secretly written, must naturally be supposed
to have, and really had, a public operation.

Resolved, That these "private letters" being
written "with express confidence of secrecy" was
only to prevent the contents of them being known
here, as appears by said letters ; and this rendered
them the more injurious in their tendency, and
really insidious.

Resolved, That the letters signed Tho. Hutchinson,
considering the person by whom they were written,
the matters they expressly contain, the express
reference in some of them for "full intelligence" to
Mr. Hallo well, a person deeply interested in the
measures so much complained of, and recommenda-
tory notices of divers other persons, whose emolu-
ments arising from our public burdens must excite
them to unfavorable representations of us, the
measures they suggest, the temper in which they were

1774] Benjamin Franklin 393

written, the manner in which they were sent, and the
person to whom they were addressed, had a natural
and efficacious tendency to interrupt and alienate
the affections of our most gracious sovereign King
George the Third, from this his loyal and affectionate
province ; to destroy that harmony and good- will be-
tween Great Britain and this colony, which every
friend to either would wish to establish; to excite
the resentment of the British administration against
this province ; to defeat the endeavors of our agents
and friends to serve us by a fair representation of our
state of grievances; to prevent our humble and re-
peated petitions from reaching the royal ear of our
common sovereign; and to produce the severe and
destructive measures which have been taken against
this province, and others still more so, which have
been threatened.

Resolved, As the opinion of this House, that it
clearly appears from the letters aforesaid, signed,
Tho. Hutchinson and Andw. Oliver, that it was the
desire and endeavor of the writers of them that cer-
tain acts of the British Parliament for raising
a revenue in America might he carried into effect by
military force; and, by introducing a fleet and army
into this his Majesty's loyal province to intimidate
the minds of his subjects here, and prevent every
constitutional measure to obtain the repeal of those
acts so justly esteemed a grievance to us, and to sup-
press the very spirit of freedom.

Resolved, That it is the opinion of this House that,
as the salaries lately appointed for the governor,
lieutenant governor, and judges of this province.

394 The Works of [1774

directly repugnant to the charter and subversive
of justice, are founded on this revenue ; and as these
letters were written with a design, and had a tendency
to promote and support that revenue, therefore there
is great reason to suppose the writers of those letters
were well knowing to, suggested, and promoted the
enacting said revenue acts, and the establishments
founded on the same.

Resolved, That, while the writer of these letters,
signed Tho. Hutchinson has been thus exerting
himself, by his " secret confidential correspondence,"
to introduce measures destructive of our constitu-
tional liberty, he has been practising every method
among the people of this province to fix in their mind
an exalted opinion of his warmest affection for them,
and his unremitted endeavors to promote their best
interests at the court of Great Britain.

Resolved, as the opinion of this House, That, by
comparing these letters signed Tho. Hutchinson, with
those signed Andiv. Oliver, Cha. Paxton, and Nath.
Rogers, and considering what has since in fact taken
place conformable thereto, there have been for many
years past measures contemplated, and a plan formed,
by a set of men born and educated among us, to raise
their own fortunes, and advance themselves to posts
of honor and profit, not only to the destruction of
the charter and constitution of this province, but at
the expense of the rights and liberties of the Ameri-
can colonies. And it is further the opinion of this
House, that the said persons have been some of the
chief instruments in the introduction of a military
force into the province, to caiTy their plans into

1774] Benjamin Franklin 395

execution; and, therefore, they have been not only
greatly instrumental in disturbing the peace and
harmony of the government, and causing and
promoting great discord and animosities, but are
justly chargeable with the great corruption of mor-
als, and all that confusion, misery, and bloodshed,
which have been the natural effects of the introduction
of troops.

Whereas, for many years past, measures have been
taken by the British administration very grievous
to the good people of this province, which this House
have now reason to suppose were promoted, if not
originally suggested, by the writers of these letters;
and many efforts have been made by the people to
obtain the redress of their grievances;

Resolved, That it appears to this House that the
writers of these letters have availed themselves of
disorders that naturally arise in a free government
under such oppressions, as arguments to prove that
it was originally necessary such measures should
have been taken, and that they should now be con-
tinued and increased.

Whereas, in the letter signed Cha. Paxton, dated
Boston Harbor, June 20, 1768, it is expressly
declared that, ' ' unless we have immediately two or
three regiments, it is the opinion of all the friends of
government that Boston will be in open rebellion";
Resolved, That this is a most wicked and injurious
representation, designed to inflame the minds of his
Majesty's ministers and the nation; and to excite in
the breast of our sovereign a jealousy of his loyal
subjects of said town, without the least grounds

396 The Works of [1774

therefor, as enemies of his Majesty's person and
government.

Whereas, certain letters by two private persons,
signed T. Moffat and G. Rome, have been laid before
the House, which letters contain many matters
highly injurious to government and to the national
peace ;

Resolved, That it has been the misfortune of their
government, from the earliest period of it, from time
to time, to be secretly traduced and maliciously
represented to the British ministry, by persons who
were neither friendly to this colony nor to the Eng-
lish Constitution.

Resolved, That this House have just reason to com-
plain of it as a very great grievance, that the humble
petitions and remonstrances of the commons of this
province are not allowed to reach the hands of our
most gracious sovereign, merely because they are
presented by an agent, to whose appointment the
governor, with whom our chief dispute may subsist,
doth not consent ; while the partial and inflammatory
letters of individuals, who are greatly interested in the
revenue acts, and the measures taken to carry them
into execution, have been laid before administration,
attended to, and determined upon, not only to the
injury of the reputation of the people, but to the
depriving them of their invaluable rights and
liberties.

Whereas, this House are humbly of opinion that his
Majesty will judge it to be incompatible with the
interest of his crown, and the peace and safety of the
good people of this his loyal province, that persons

1774] Benjamin Franklin 397

should be continued in places of high trust and au-
thority in it, who are known to have with great
industry, though secretly, endeavored to undermine,
alter, and overthrow the constitution of the pro-
vince; therefore.

Resolved, That this House are bound, in duty to the
king and their constituents, humbly to remonstrate
to his Majesty the conduct of his Excellency Thomas
Hutchinson, Esquire, Governor, and the Honorable
Andrew Oliver, Esquire, Lieutenant-Governor, of
this province ; and to pray that his Majesty wotdd be
pleased to remove them for ever from the govern-
ment thereof. '

Upon these Resolutions was founded the following
petition, transmitted to me to be presented to his
Majesty:

TO THE king's MOST EXCELLENT MAJESTY

Most Gracious Sovereign:

We, your Majesty's loyal subjects, the representa-
tives of your ancient colony of Massachusetts Bay,
in general court legally assembled, b}^ virtue of your
Majesty's writ under the hand and seal of the
governor, beg leave to lay this our humble petition
before your Majesty.

Nothing but the sense of duty we owe to our sov-
ereign, and the obligation we are under to consult

I The House of Representatives adopted these Resolves, as here
reported, by a large majority. The Council almost unanimously
passed a series of Resolves, on the 25th of June, embodying similar
sentiments. — Editor.

398 The Works of [1774

the peace and safety of the province, could induce
us to remonstrate to your Majesty concerning the
mal-conduct of persons who have heretofore had
the confidence and esteem of this people, and whom
your Majesty has been pleased, from the purest
motives of rendering your subjects happy, to ad-
vance to the highest places of trust and authority
in the province.

Your Majesty's humble petitioners, with the deep-
est concern and anxiety, have seen the discords and
animosities which have too long subsisted between
your subjects of the parent state and those of the
American colonies. And we have trembled with
apprehensions that the consequences naturally aris-
ing therefrom would at length prove fatal to both
countries.

Permit us humbly to suggest to your Majesty, that
your subjects here have been inclined to believe that
the grievances which they have suffered, and still
continue to suffer, have been occasioned by your
Majesty's ministers and principal servants being,
unfortunately for us, misinformed in certain facts of
very interesting importance to us. It is for this
reason that former assemblies have, from time to
time, prepared a true state of facts to be laid before
your Majesty; but their humble remonstrances and
petitions, it is presumed, have by some means been
prevented from reaching your royal hand.

Your Majesty's petitioners have very lately had
before them certain papers, from which they himibly
conceive it is most reasonable to suppose that there
has been long a conspiracy of evil men in this pro-

1774] Benjamin Franklin 399

vince.who have contemplated measures and formed
a plan to advance themselves to power and raise
their own fortunes by means destructive of the
charter of the province, at the expense of the quiet
of the nation, and to the annihilating of the rights
and liberties of the American colonies.

And we do, with all due submission to your
Majesty, beg leave particularly to complain of the
conduct of his Excellency Thomas Hutchinson,
Esquire, Governor, and the Honorable Andrew
Oliver, Esquire, Lieutenant-Governor of this your
Majesty's province, as having a natural and effica-
cious tendency to interrupt and alienate the affec-
tions of your Majesty, our rightful sovereign, from
this your royal province; to destroy that harmony
and good-will between Great Britain and this colony,
which every honest subject should strive to establish ;
to excite the resentment of the British administra-
tion against this province; to defeat the endeavors
of our agents and friends to serve us by a fair repre-
sentation of our state of facts ; to prevent our humble
and repeated petitions from reaching the ear of your
Majesty, or having their desired effect. And,
finally, that the said Thomas Hutchinson and An-
drew Oliver have been among the chief instruments
in introducing a fleet and army into this province,
to establish and perpetuate their plans, whereby
they have been not only greatly instrumental in dis-
turbing the peace and harmony of the government
and causing unnatural and hateful discords and ani-
mosities between the several parts of your Majesty's
extensive dominions, but are justly chargeable with

400 The Works of [1774

all that corruption of morals, and all that con-
fusion, misery, and bloodshed, which have been the
natural effects of posting an army in a populous
town.

Wherefore we most humbly pray that your Ma-
jesty would be pleased to remove from their posts in
this government the said Thomas Hutchinson, Es-
quire, and Andrew Oliver, Esquire; who have, by
their above-mentioned conduct, and otherwise, ren-
dered themselves justly obnoxious to your loving
subjects, and entirely lost their confidence; and
place such good and faithful men in their stead, as
your Majesty in your wisdom shall think fit.

In the name and by order of the House of Repre-
sentatives.

Thomas Gushing, Speaker.

Lord Dartmouth, Secretary of State for the colo-
nies, being in the country when I received this peti-
tion, I transmitted it to his Lordship, enclosed in a
letter, of which the following is a copy, as also of
his answer.

TO THE RIGHT HONORABLE THE EARL OF DARTMOUTH

London, 21 August, 1773.

My Lord: — I have just received, from the House
of Representatives of the Massaehusetts Bay, their
address to the king, which I now enclose, and send
to your Lordship, with my humble request, in their
behalf, that you would be pleased to present it to his
Majesty the first convenient opportunity.

1774] Benjamin Franklin 401

I have the pleasure of hearing from that province
by my late letters, that a sincere disposition prevails
in the people there to be on good terms with the
mother country; that the Assembly have declared
their desire only to be put into the situation they
were in before the Stamp Act. They aim at no nov-
elties. And it is said that, having lately discovered,
as they think, the authors of their grievances to be
some of their own people, their resentment against
Britain is thence much abated.

This good disposition of theirs (will your Lordship
permit me to say) may be cultivated by a favorable
answer to this address, which I therefore hope yoiir
goodness will endeavor to obtain. With the greatest
respect, I have the honor to be, my Lord, etc.,

B. Franklin,
Agent for the House of Representatives.

LORD Dartmouth's answer

Sandwell, 25 August, 1773.

Sir: — I have received your letter of the 21st in-
stant, together with an address of the House of
Representatives of the Massachusetts Bay, which I
shall not fail to lay before the king the next time I
shall have the honor of being admitted into his pres-
ence. I cannot help expressing to you the pleasure
it gives me to hear that a sincere disposition prevails
in the people of that province to be on good terms
with the mother country, and my earnest hope
that the time is at no great distance when every
ground of uneasiness will cease, and the most perfect

402 The Works of [1774

tranquillity and happiness be restored to the breasts
of that people.

I am, sir, your most obedient himible servant,

Dartmouth.

Benjamin Franklin, Esq.

No one, who knows Lord Dartmouth, can doubt
the sincerity of the good wishes expressed in his let-
ter to me; and if his Majesty's other servants had
fortunately been possessed of the same benevolent
dispositions, with as much of that attention to the
public interest, and dexterity in managing it, as
statesmen of this country generally show in obtaining
and securing their places, here was a fine opportunity
put into their hands of "reestablishing the union
and harmony that formerly subsisted between Great
Britain and her colonies," so necessary to the welfare
of both, and upon the easy condition of only " restor-
ing things to the state they were in at the conclusion
of the late war. ' ' This was a solemn declaration sent
over from the province most aggrieved, in which they
acquitted Britain of their grievances, and charged
them all upon a few individuals of their own country.
Upon the heads of these very mischievous men they
imprecated no vengeance, though that of the whole
nation was justly merited; they considered it as a
hard thing for an administration to punish a governor
who had acted from orders, though the orders had
been procured by his misrepresentations and ca-
lumnies; they therefore only petitioned, "that his
Majesty would be pleased to remove Thomas Hutch-
inson, Esquire, and Andrew Oliver, Esquire, from

1774] Benjamin Franklin 403

their posts in that government, and place good and
faithful men in their stead." These men might have
been placed or pensioned elsewhere, as others have
been ; or, like the scape-goats of old, they might have
carried away into the wilderness all the offences
which have arisen between the two coim tries, with
the burdens of which they, having been the authors
of these mischiefs, were most justly chargeable.

But this opportunity ministers had not the wisdom
to embrace ; they chose rather to reject it, and abuse
and pimish me for giving it. A court clamor was
raised against me as an incendiary; and the very
action upon which I valued myself, as it appeared to
me a means of lessening our differences, I was un-
lucky enough to find charged upon me, as a wicked
attempt to increase them. Strange perversion!

I was, it seems, equally unlucky in another action,
which I also intended for a good one, and which
brought on the above-mentioned clamor. The news
being arrived here of the publication of those letters
in America, great inquiry was made who had trans-
mitted them. Mr. Temple, a gentleman of the cus-
toms, was accused of it in the papers. He vindicated
himself. A public altercation ensued upon it be-
tween him and a Mr. Whately, brother and executor
to the person to whom it was supposed the letters
had been originally written, and who was suspected
by some of communicating them; on the suppo-
sition that by his brother's death they might have
fallen into his hands. As the gentleman to whom I
sent them had, in his letter to me above recited, given
an important reason for his desiring it should be
The Works of [1774

concealed that he was the person who received them,
and had for the same reason chosen not to let it be
known I sent them, I suffered that altercation to go on
without interfering, supposing it would end, as other
newspaper controversies usually do, when the parties
and the public should be tired of them. But this dis-
pute unexpectedly and suddenly produced a duel . The
gentlemen were parted ; Mr. Whately was wotmded,
but not dangerously. This, however, alarmed me,
and made me wish I had prevented it; but, imagin-
ing all now over between them, I still kept silence till
I heard that the duel was understood to be im-
finished (as having been interrupted by persons
accidentally near), and that it would probably be
repeated as soon as Mr. Whately, who was mending
daily, had recovered his strength. I then thought
it high time to interpose ; and, as the quarrel was for
the public opinion, I took what I thought the shortest
way to settle that opinion, with regard to the parties,
by publishing what follows.

To the Printer of the Public Advertiser:

Sir: — Finding that two gentlemen have been un-
fortunately engaged in a duel about a transaction and
its circumstance, of which both of them are totally
ignorant and innocent, I think it incumbent upon me
to declare (for the prevention of further mischief, as
far as such a declaration may contribute to prevent
it), that I alone am the person who obtained and
transmitted to Boston the letters in question. Mr.
W. could not communicate them, because they were
never in his possession; and, for the same reason,

17741 Benjamin Franklin 405

they could not be taken from him by Mr. T. They
were not of the nature of private letters between
friends. They were written by public officers to per-
sons in public stations, on public affairs, and intended
to procure public measures; they were therefore
handed to other public persons, who might be influ-
enced by them to produce those measures. Their
tendency was to incense the mother country against
her colonies, and, by the steps recommended, to
widen the breach, which they effected. The chief
caution expressed with regard to privacy was, to
keep their contents from the colony agents, who, the
writers apprehended, might return them, or copies of
them, to America. That apprehension was, it seems,
well founded, for the first agent who laid his hands
on them thought it his duty ' to transmit them to his

constituents.

B. Franklin,

Agent for the House of Representatives

of Massachusetts Bay.

Craven Street, December 25, 1773.

This declaration of mine was at first generally ap-
proved, except that some blamed me for not having
made it sooner, so as to prevent the duel, but I had
not the gift of prophecy; I could not foresee that
the gentlemen would fight; I did not even foresee
that either of them could possibly take it ill of me. I

^ In remarking on this word as here used, Dr. Franklin said, in a note
found in his handwriting: "Governor Hutchinson, as appears by his
letters, since found and published in New England, had the same
idea of duty when he procured copies of Dr. Franklin's letters to the
Assembly, and sent them to the ministry of England."

4o6 The Works of [1774

imagined I was doing them a good office in clearing
both of them from suspicion, and removing the cause
of their difference. I should have thought it natural
for them both to have thanked me, but I was mis-
taken as to one of them. His wound perhaps at first
prevented him, and afterwards he was tutored
probably to another kind of behavior by his court
connections.

My only acquaintance with this gentleman, Mr.
WilHam Whately, was from an application he made
to me to do him the favor of inquiring after some
land in Pennsylvania, supposed to have been pur-
chased anciently from the first proprietor, by a
Major Thomson, his grandfather, of which they had
some imperfect memorandimis in the family, but
knew not whether it might not have been sold or
conveyed away by him in his lifetime, as there was
no mention of it in his will. I took the trouble of
writing, accordingly, to a friend of mine, an eminent
lawyer there, well acquainted with such business,
desiring him to make the inquiry. He took some
pains in it at my request, and succeeded; and in a
letter informed me that he had found the land, that
the proprietary claimed it, but he thought the title
was clear to the heir of Thomson; that he could
easily recover it for him, and would undertake it if
Mr. Whately should think fit to employ him; or, if
he should rather choose to sell it, my friend em-
powered me to make him an offer of five thousand
pounds sterling for it. With this letter I waited
upon him about a month before the duel, at his
house in Lombard Street, the first time I had ever

1774] Benjamin Franklin 407

been in it. He was pleased with the intelligence,
and called upon me once or twice afterwards to
concert the means of making out his title.

I mention some of these circumstances to show
that it was not through any previous acquaintance
with him that I came to the knowledge of the
famous letters ; for they had been in America near a
year before I so much as knew where he lived ; and
the others I mention to show his gratitude. I could
have excused his not thanking me for sparing him a
second hazard of his life ; for, though he might feel
himself served, he might also apprehend that to
seem pleased would look as if he was afraid of fight-
ing again ; or perhaps he did not value his life at any
thing; but the addition to his fortune one would
think of some value to a banker, and yet the return
this worthy gentleman made me for both favors was,
without the smallest previous notice, warning, com-
plaint, or request to me, directly or indirectly, to clap
upon my back a Chancery suit. His bill set forth:
"That he was administrator of the goods and
chattels of his late brother Thomas Whately; that
some letters had been written to his said brother
by the Governors Hutchinson and Oliver ; that those
letters had been in the custody of his said brother
at the time of his death, or had been by him delivered
to some other person for perusal, and to be by such
person safely kept and returned to said Thomas
Whately; that the same had by some means come
into my hands; that, to prevent a discovery, I, or
some person by my order, had erased the address of
the letters to the said Thomas Whately ; that , carrying

4o8 The Works of [1774

on the trade of a printer, I had, by my agents or con-
federates, printed and published the same letters
in America, and disposed of great nimibers; that I
threatened to print and sell the same in England;
and that he had applied to me to deliver up to him
the said letters, and all copies thereof, and desist
from printing and publishing the same, and account
with him for the profits thereof ; and he was in hopes
I would have complied with such request, but so it
was that I had refused, etc., contrary to eqiiity and
good conscience, and to the manifest injury and op-
pression of him, the complainant; and praying my
Lord Chancellor that I might be obliged to discover
how I came by the letters, what nimiber of copies I
had printed and sold, and to account with him for the
profits, ' ' etc. , etc. The gentleman himself must have
known that every circumstance of this was totally
false; that of his brother's having delivered the letters
to some other person for perusal excepted. Those as
little acquainted with law as I was (who, indeed,
never before had a lawsuit of any kind), may won-
der at this as much as I did; but I have now
learned that in Chancery, though the defendant
must swear the truth of every point in his answer,
the plaintiff is not put to his oath, or obliged to
have the least regard to truth in his bill, but is
allowed to lie as much as he pleases. I do not un-
derstand this, unless it be for the encouragement of
business.

My answer upon oath was: "That the letters in
question were given to me, and came into my hands,
as agent for the House of Representatives of the pro-

1774] Benjamin Franklin 409

vince of Massachusetts Bay; that, when given to me,
I did not know to whom they had been addressed,
no address appearing upon them; nor did I know
before that any such letters existed ; that I had not
been for many years concerned in printing; that I
did not cause the letters to be printed, nor direct the
doing it ; that I did not erase any address that might
have been on the letters, nor did I know that any
other person had made such erasure; that I did, as
agent to the province, transmit (as I apprehended it
my duty to do) the said letters to one of the com-
mittee, with whom I had been directed to corre-
spond, inasmuch as in my judgment they related to
matters of great public importance to that province,
and were put into my hands for that purpose ; that
I had never been applied to by the complainant, as
asserted in his bill, and had made no profits of the
letters, nor intended to make any," etc.

It was about this time become evident that all
thoughts of reconciliation with the colony of Massa-
chusetts Bay, by attention to their petitions, and a
redress of their grievances, was laid aside; that
severity was resolved; and that the decrying and
vilifying the people of that country, and me their
agent, among the rest, was quite a court measure.
It was the ton with all the ministerial folks to abuse
them and me, in every company, and in every news-
paper; and it was intimated to me, as a thing set-
tled, long before it happened, that the petition for
the removal of the governors was to be rejected, the
Assembly censured, and myself, who had presented
it, was to be punished by the loss of my place in the

4IO The Works of [1774

post-office. » For all this I was therefore prepared;
but the attack from Mr. Whately was, I own, a svir-
prise to me. Under the above-mentioned circum-
stances of obligation, and without the slightest
provocation, I could not have imagined any man
base enough to commence, of his own motion, such a
vexatious suit against me. But a little accidental
information served to throw some light upon the
business. An acquaintance ' calling on me, after
having just been at the treasury, showed me what
he styled a pretty thing, for a friend of his ; it was an
order for one hundred and fifty pounds, payable to
Dr. Samuel Johnson, said to be one half of his yearly
pension, and drawn by the secretary of the treasury
on this same Mr. Whately. I then considered him
as a banker to the treasury for the pension money,
and thence as having an interested connection with
the administration, that might induce him to act by
direction of others in harassing me with this suit;
which gave me if possible a still meaner opinion of
him than if he had done it of his own accord.

What further steps he or his confederates, the min-
isters, will take in this cause, I know not. I do not
indeed believe the banker himself, finding there are
no profits to be shared, would willingly lay out a
sixpence more upon the suit; but then my finances
are not sufficient to cope at law with the treasury
here: especially when the administration has taken

^ For several years Dr. Franklin had held the office of Deputy Post-
master-General of the Colonies. — Editor.

2 William Strahan, Member of Parliament, and king's printer. —
W. T. F.

1774] Benjamin Franklin 411

care to prevent my constituents of New England
from paying me any salary, or reimbiirsing me any
expenses, by a special instruction to the governor,
not to sign any warrant for that purpose on the treasury
there.

The injustice of thus depriving the people there
of the use of their own money, to pay an agent acting
in their defence, while the governor, with a large
salary out of the money extorted from them by act of
Parliament, was enabled to pay plentifully Mauduit
and Wedderburn to abuse and defame them and
their agent, is so evident as to need no comment.
But this they call government !

DXCI

THE RESULT OF ENGLAND'S PERSISTENCE IN HER
POLICY TOWARDS THE COLONIES ILLUSTRATED =■

Explanation

Great Britain is supposed to have been placed
upon the globe; but the colonies (that is, her limbs),
being severed from her, she is seen lifting her eyes

I W. T. Franklin gives the following account of this device, and the
use made of it by its author: "During the disputes between the two
countries, Dr. Franklin invented a little emblematical design, intended
to represent the supposed state of Great Britain and her colonies,
should the former persist in her oppressive measvires, restraining the
latter's trade, and taxing their people by laws made by a legislature in
which they were not represented. It was engraved on a copper plate.
Dr. Franklin had many of them struck off on cards, on the back of
which he occasionally wrote his notes. It was also printed on a half-
sheet of paper, with the explanation and moral." — Editor.

412 The Works of [1774

and mangled stumps to Heaven; her shield, which
she is unable to wield, lies useless by her side; her
lance has pierced New England; the laurel branch
has fallen from the hand of Pennsylvania ; the Eng-
lish oak has lost its head, and stands a bare trunk,
with a few withered branches ; briers and thorns are
on the ground beneath it; the British ships have
brooms at their topmost heads, denoting their being
on sale; and Britannia herself is seen sliding off
the world (no longer able to hold its balance), her
fragments overspread with the label. Date obolum
Belisario.

The Moral

History affords us many instances of the ruin of
states by the prosecution of measures ill suited to
the temper and genius of their people. The ordain-
ing of laws in favor of one part of the nation, to the
prejudice and oppression of another, is certainly the
most erroneous and mistaken policy. An equal dis-
pensation of protection, rights, privileges, and ad-
vantages is what every part is entitled to, and ought
to enjoy, it being a matter of no moment to the
state whether a subject grows rich and flourishing
on the Thames or the Ohio, in Edinburgh or Dublin.
These measures never fail to create great and violent
jealousies and animosities between the people fav-
ored and the people oppressed ; whence a total sepa-
ration of affections, interests, political obligations,
and all manner of connections necessarily ensue, by
which the whole state is weakened, and perhaps
ruined forever.

1774] Benjamin Franklin 4^3

DXCII

ON A PROPOSED ACT OF PARLIAMENT FOR PREVENTING
EMIGRATION

To the Printer of the Public Advertiser:

Sir: — You give us in your paper of Tuesday, the
1 6th of November, what is called "The Plan of an
Act to be Proposed at the Next Meeting of ParHa-
ment to Prevent the Emigration of Our People." I
know not from what authority it comes, but as it is
very circumstantial, I suppose some such plan may
be really under consideration, and that this is
thrown out to feel the pulse of the public. I shall,
therefore, with your leave give my sentiments of it
in your paper.

During a century and a half that Englishmen have
been at liberty to remove if they pleased to America,
we have heard of no law to restrain that liberty, and
confine them as prisoners in this island. Nor do we
perceive any ill effects produced by their emigration.
Our estates, far from diminishing in value through a
want of tenants, have been in that period more than
doubled; the lands in general are better cultivated;
their increased produce finds a ready sale at an ad-
vanced price, and the complaint has for some time
been, not that we want mouths to consume otir
meat, but that we want meat for our number of
mouths.

Why then is such a restraining law now thought
necessary ? A paragraph in the same paper from the
Edinburgh C our ant, may perhaps throw some light

414 The Works of [1774

upon this question. We are there told, "that one
thousand five hundred people have emigrated to
America from the shire of Sutherland within these
two years, and carried with them seven thousand
five hundred pounds sterling, which exceeds a year's
rent of the whole county ; that the single considera-
tion of the misery which most of these people must
suffer in America, independent of the loss of men
and money to the mother country, should engage the
attention, not only of the landed interest, but of ad-
ministration." The humane writer of this paragraph
may, I fancy, console himself with the reflection that
perhaps the apprehended future sufferings of those
emigrants will never exist; for that it was probable
the authentic accounts they had received from
friends already settled there, of the felicity to be
enjoyed in that country, with a thorough knowledge
of their own misery at home, which induced their
removal. And, as a politician, he may be comforted
by assuring himself that if they really meet with
greater misery in America, their future letters lam-
enting it will be more credited than the Edinburgh
Courant, and effectually, without a law, put a stop
to the emigration. It seems some of the Scottish
chiefs, who delight no longer to live upon their es-
tates in the honorable independence they were born
to, among their respecting tenants, but choose rather
a life of luxury, though among the dependants of a
court, have lately raised their rents most grievously
to support the expense. The consuming of those
rents in London, though equally prejudicial to the
poor county of Sutherland, no Edinburgh newspaper

1774] Benjamin Franklin 415

complains of; but now that the oppressed tenants
take flight and carry with them what might have
supported the landlord's London magnificence, he
begins to feel for the mother country, and its enor-
mous loss of seven thousand five hundred pounds
carried to her colonies! Administration is called
upon to remedy the evil by another abridgment of
English liberty. And surely administration
should do something for these gentry, as they do
any thing for administration.

But is there not an easier remedy? Let them re-
turn to their family seats, live among their people,
and, instead of fleecing and skinning, patronize and
cherish them, promote their interest, encourage
their industry, and make their situation comfortable.
If the poor folks are happier at home than they can
be abroad, they will not lightly be prevailed with to
cross the ocean. But can their lord blame them for
leaving home in search of better living, when he
first set them the example ?

I would consider the proposed law —

I St. As to the necessity of it.

2dly. The practicability.

3dly. The policy, if practicable.

And, 4thly. The justice of it.

Pray spare me room for a few words on each of
these heads.

I St. As to the Necessity of it

If any country has more people than can be com-
fortably subsisted in it, some of those who are

4i6 The Works of [1774

incommoded may be induced to emigrate. As long
as the new situation shall be far preferable to the old,
the emigration may possibly continue. But when
many of those who at home interfered with others of
the same rank (in the competition for farms, shops,
business, offices, and other means of subsistence) are
gradually withdrawn, the inconvenience of that
competition ceases; the number remaining no longer
half starve each other; they find they can now sub-
sist comfortably, and though perhaps not quite so
well as those who have left them, yet the inbred
attachment to a native country is sufficient to over-
balance a moderate difference; and thus the emigra-
tion ceases naturally. The waters of the ocean may
move in currents from one quarter of the globe to
another, as they happen in some places to be accumu-
lated and in others diminished; but no law, beyond
the law of gravity, is necessary to prevent their
abandoning any coast entirely. Thus the different
degrees of happiness of different countries and situa-
tions find, or rather make, their level by the flowing
of people from one to another ; and where that level
is once found the removals cease. Add to this that
even a real deficiency of people in any country, occa-
sioned by a wasting war or pestilence, is speedily
supplied by earlier and more prolific marriages, en-
couraged by the greater facility of obtaining the
means of subsistence. So that a country half de-
populated would soon be repeopled, till the means
of subsistence were equalled by the population. All
increase beyond that point must perish, or flow off
into more favorable situations. Such overflowings

1774] Benjamin Franklin 417

there have been of mankind in all ages, or we should
not now have had so many nations. But to appre-
hend absolute depopulation from that cause, and
call for a law to prevent it, is calling for a law
to stop the Thames, lest its waters, by what
leave it daily at Gravesend, should be quite ex-
hausted. Such a law, therefore, I do not conceive to

be NECESSARY.

2dly. As to the Practicability

When I consider the attempts of this kind that
have been made, first in the time of Archbishop Laud,
by orders of council, to stop the Puritans, who were
flying from his persecutions into New England, and
next by Louis the Fourteenth, to retain in his king-
dom the persecuted Huguenots; and how ineffectual
all the power of our crown, with which the arch-
bishop armed himself, and all the more absolute
power of that great French monarch, were, to obtain
the end for which they were exerted; and when I
consider, too, the extent of coast to be guarded, and
the multitude of cruisers necessary effectually to
make a prison of the island for this confinement of
free Englishmen, who naturally love liberty, and
would probably by the very restraint be more
stimulated to break through it, I cannot but think
such a law impracticable. The offices would not
be applied to for Hcenses, the ports would not be
used for embarkation. And yet the people disposed
to leave us would, as the Puritans did, get away by
shipsfull.

4i8 The Works of [1774

3dly. As to the Policy of the Law

Since I have shown there was no danger of de-
populating Britain, but that the place of those that
depart will soon be filled up equal to the means of
obtaining a livelihood, let us see whether there are
not some general advantages to be expected from the
present emigration. The new settlers in America,
finding plenty of subsistence, and land easily ac-
quired whereon to seat their children, seldom post-
pone marriage through fear of poverty. Their
natural increase is therefore in proportion far be-
yond what it would have been if they had remained
here. New farms are daily everyivhere forming in
those immense forests; new towns and villages ris-
ing; hence a growing demand for our merchandise,
to the greater employment of our manufacturers,
and the enriching of our merchants. By this natu-
ral increase of people, the strength of the empire
is increased; men are multiplied, out of whom new
armies may be formed on occasion, or the old re-
cruited. The long-extended sea-coast, too, of that
vast country, the great maritime commerce of its
ports with each other, its many navigable rivers and
lakes, and its plentiful fisheries, breed multitudes of
seamen, besides those created and supported by its
voyages to Europe ; a thriving nursery this, for the
manning of our fleets in time of war, and main-
taining our importance among foreign nations by
that navy, which is also our best security against in-
vasions from our enemies. An extension of empire
by conquest of inhabited countries is not so easily

1774] Benjamin Franklin 419

obtained ; it is not so easily secured ; it alarms more
the neighboring states; it is more subject to revolts,
and more apt to occasion new wars.

The increase of dominion by colonies proceeding
from yourselves, and by the natural growth of your
own people cannot be complained of by your neigh-
bors as an injury; none have a right to be offended
with it. Your new possessions are therefore more
secure, they are more cheaply gained, they are at-
tached to your nation by natural alliance and affec-
tion; and thus they afford an additional strength
more certainly to be depended on than any that can
be acquired by a conquering power, though at an
immense expense of blood and treasure. These,
methinks, are national advantages that more than
equiponderate with the inconveniences suffered by
a few Scotch or Irish landlords, who perhaps may
find it necessary to abate a little of their present
luxury, or of those advanced rents they now so un-
feelingly demand. From these considerations, I
think I may conclude, that the restraining law pro-
posed would, if practicable, be impolitic.

4thly. As to the Justice of it

I apprehend that every Briton who is made un-
happy at home, has a right to remove from any part
of his king's dominions into those of any other
prince, where he can be happier. If this should be
denied me, at least it will be allowed that he has a
right to remove into any other part of the same
dominions. For by this right so many Scotchmen
The Works of [1774

remove into England, easing its own country of its
supernumeraries, and benefiting ours by their in-
dustry. And this is the case with those who go to
America. Will not these Scottish lairds be satisfied
imless a law passes to pin down all tenants to the
estate they are bom on {adscripti glebes), to be bought
and sold with it ? God has given to the beasts of the
forest, and to the birds of the air, a right, when their
subsistence fails in one coimtry, to migrate to an-
other, where they can get a more comfortable living ;
and shall man be denied a privilege enjoyed by
brutes, merely to gratify a few avaricious landlords?
Must misery be made permanent, and suffered by
many for the emolument of one; while the increase
of human beings is prevented, and thousands of their
offspring stifled, as it were, in the birth, that this
petty Pharaoh may enjoy an excess of opulence?
God commands to increase and replenish the earth;
the proposed law would forbid increasing, and con-
fine Britons to their present number, keeping half
that number, too, in wretchedness. The common
people of Britain and of Ireland contributed by the
taxes they paid, and by the blood they lost, to the
success of that war which brought into our hands
the vast unpeopled territories of North America, —
a country favored by Heaven with all the advantages
of climate and soil. Germans are now pouring into
it, to take possession of it, and fill it with their pos-
terity; and shall Britons and Irelanders, who have
a much better right to it, be forbidden a share of it,
and, instead of enjoying there the plenty and happi-
ness that might reward their industry, be compelled

1775] Benjamin Franklin 421

to remain here in poverty and misery? Considera-
tions such as these persuade me that the proposed
law would be both unjust and inhuman.

If then it is unnecessary, ■impracticable, impolitic,
and unjust, I hope our Parliament will never receive
the bill, but leave landlords to their own remedy, —
an abatement of rents, and frugality of living ; and
leave the liberties of Britons and Irishmen at least as
extensive as it found them. I am, sir, yours, etc.,

A Friend to the Poor.

DXCIII

TO THOMAS gushing

London, 28 January, 1775.

Sir: — It gives my mind some ease to learn that
such good care is taken both by the general and the
town to prevent mischief. I hope that care will
continue and be effectual, and that people will be
persuaded to wait with patience the event of the
application of the Congress to the king, and the sub-
sequent result of the ensuing Congress thereupon.

Lord Chatham moved last week in the House of
Lords that an address be presented to his Majesty,
humbly beseeching him to withdraw the troops from
Boston, as a step towards opening the way to con-
ciliatory measures; but, after a long and warm de-
bate, the motion was rejected by a majority of
seventy-seven to eighteen; and open declarations
were made, by the ministerial side, of the intention

422 The Works of [1775

to enforce the late acts. To this end, three more
regiments of foot and one of dragoons, seven hundred
marines, six sloops of war, and two frigates, are now
under orders for America.

Petitions, however, are thronging into the House
from all quarters, praying that healing measures may
be taken to restore the commerce. The petition
from the Congress was brought into each House,
among other papers by the ministers, without any
particular recommendations from his Majesty that
they should be considered.

General Gage's letters being read in the House of
Commons, it appears from one of them that it had
been recommended to him by Lord Dartmouth to
disarm some of the colonies ; which he seems to ap-
prove, if it had been practicable, but says it is not,
till he is master of the country.

It is impossible to say what turn the Parliament
may take before the session is over. All depends on
the ministers, who possibly may change their minds
when they find the merchants and manufacturers
universally dissatisfied with their present conduct;
but you cannot rely upon this, and your chief depen-
dence must be on your own virtue and unanimity,
which, under God, will in time bring you through
all difficulties. I am with great respect, sir, etc.,

B. Franklin.

1775] Benjamin Franklin 423

DXCIV

TO CHARLES THOMSON '

London, 5 February, 1775.

Dear Sir : — I received duly your favors of Novem-
ber I St, by Captain Falconer, and afterwards that of
October 26th, both enclosing the letter from the
Congress, and the petition to the king. Imme-
diately on the receipt of the first, I wrote to every
one of the other gentlemen nominated, and desired
a meeting to consult on the mode of presenting the
petition committed to our care. Three of them,
viz., Mr. Burke," Mr. Wentworth, and Mr. Life, de-
clined being concerned in it, and without consulting
each other, gave the same reason, viz., that they had
no instructions relating to it. It rested on Mr.
Bollan, Mr. Lee, and myself. We took counsel with
our best friends, and were advised to present it
through Lord Dartmouth, that being the regular
official method, and the only one in which we might
on occasion call for an answer. ^

We accordingly waited on his lordship with it,
who would not immediately undertake to deliver it,
but requested it might be left with him to peruse,

1 This letter was written to Mr. Thomson as Secretary of Congress.

2 Mr. Burke at this time had been agent for New York for several
years, but to what effect or extent we have no evidence, as no letters
from him to his principals have been yet discovered, if any were
written. — Editor.

3 It was resolved in Congress. October 25, 1774: "That the Address
to the King be enclosed in a letter to the several colony agents, in
order that the same may be by them presented to his Majesty; and
that the agents be requested to call in the aid of such noblemen and
gentlemen as are esteemed firm friends to American liberty."

424 The Works of [1775

which was done. He found nothing in it improper
for him to present, and, afterwards sending for us,
he informed us that he had presented the petition
to his Majesty, who had been pleased to receive it
very graciously, and to command him to tell us it
contained matters of such importance that, as soon
as they met, he would lay it before his two Houses
of Parliament.

We then consulted on the publication, and were
advised by wise and able men, friends of America,
whose names it will not be proper to mention, by no
means to publish it till it should be before Parlia-
ment, as it would be deemed disrespectful to the
king. We flattered ourselves, from the answer given
by Lord Dartmouth, that the king would have been
pleased to recommend it to the consideration of Par-
liament by some message; but we were mistaken.
It came down among a great heap of letters of in-
telligence from governors and officers in America,
newspapers, pamphlets, handbills, etc., from that
country, the last in the list, and was laid upon the
table with them, undistinguished by any particular
recommendation of it to the notice of either House;
and I do not find that it had any further notice taken
of it as yet than that it has been read as well as the
other papers.

To draw it into the attention of the House, we
petitioned to be heard upon it, but were not per-
mitted ; and, by the resolutions of the Committee of
the Whole House, which I enclose, you will see that
it has made little impression ; and from the constant
refusal, neglect, or discouragement of American

i77sl Benjamin Franklin 425

petitions, these many years past, our country will at
least be convinced that petitions are odious here,
and that petitioning is far from being a profitable
means of obtaining redress. A firm, steady, and
faithful adherence to the non-consimiptive agree-
ment is the only thing to be depended on. It begins
already to work (as you will see in the votes of the
House), by producing applications from the mer-
chants and manufacturers, and it must finally lead
Parliament into reasonable measures.

At present the ministers are encouraged to pro-
ceed by the assurance they receive from America
that the people are not imanimous; that a very
great part of them disapprove the proceedings of the
Congress, and would break through them, if there
was in the country an army sufficient to support
these friends, as they are called, of government.
They rely, too, on being able to divide us still further
by various means ; for they seem to have no concep-
tion that such a thing as pubUc spirit or public virtue
anywhere exists. I trust they will find themselves
totally mistaken. The Congress is in high esteem
here among all the friends of liberty, and their papers
much admired; perhaps nothing of the kind has
been more thoroughly published, or more universally
read. Lord Camden spoke highly of the Americans
in general, and of the Congress particularly, in the
House of Lords. Lord Chatham said that, taking
the whole together, and considering the members of
the Congress as the unsolicited, unbeseeched choice
of a great, free, and enlightened people, their unan-
imity, their moderation, and their wisdom, he thought

426 The Works of [1775

it the most honorable assembly of men that had ever
been known ; that the histories of Greece and Rome
gave us nothing equal to it. Lord Shelburne would
not admit that the Parliament of Britain could be
comparable with it, a Parliament obeying the dic-
tates of a ministry who, in nine cases out of ten, were
governed by their under-secretaries.

You will see, among the papers herewith sent, the
motion made by Lord Chatham, as preparatory to
his plan, viz., that the troops should be removed from
Boston. I send, also, a copy of the plan itself, which
you may be assured is genuine. The speeches hith-
erto published as his, during the session, are spurious.
The Duke of Richmond and the Duke of Manchester
appeared for us also in the debate, and spoke ex-
tremely well. Lord Chatham's bill, though on so
important a subject, and offered by so great a char-
acter, and supported by such able and learned
speakers as Camden, etc., etc., was treated with as
much contempt as they could have shown to a ballad
offered by a drunken porter. It was rejected on a
slight reading, without being suffered even to lie on
the table for the perusal of the members.

The House of Commons, too, have shown an equal
rashness and precipitation in matters requiring the
most weighty deliberation, refusing to hear, and
entering hastily into violent measures ; and yet this
is the government, by whose supreme authority, we
are to have our throats cut, if we do not acknowledge,
and whose dictates we are implicitly to obey, while
their conduct hardly entitles them to common
respect.

1775] Benjamin Franklin 427

The agents have not time to make so many copies
of the papers sent with this, and, indeed, of our
letter to the Speakers of the several Assemblies, as
would be necessary to send one for each; we there-
fore send only two, one by Falconer, and the other
by Lawrence to New York, requesting that you will
get them copied at Philadelphia, and forward them
northward and southward, one to each speaker, at
the earliest conveyance. It is thought by our
friends that Lord Chatham's plan, if it had been en-
acted here, would have prevented present mischief,
and might have been the foundation of a lasting
good agreement ; for, though in some points it might
not perfectly coincide with our ideas and wishes, we
should have proposed modifications or variations
where we should judge them necessary; in fine, the
two countries might have met in perfect union. I
hope, therefore, it will be treated with respect by
our writers, and its author honored for the attempt;
for, though he has put some particulars into it, as I
think, by way of complying a little with the general
prejudices here, and to make more material parts go
better down, yet I am persuaded he would not other-
wise be tenacious of those parts, meaning sincerely
to make us contented and happy, as far as consistent
with the general welfare.

I need not caution you to let no part of this letter
be copied or printed. With great esteem, I am, sir,
your affectionate friend and humble servant. *

' The writer's signature is not affixed to the original letter.

428 The Works of [1775

DXCV

TO JAMES BOWDOIN

London, 25 February, 1775.

Dear Sir: — I received your kind letter of Septem-
ber 6th by Mr. Quincy. I thought it might be of
use to pubhsh a part of it, which was done accord-
ingly. But the measures it so justly censures are
still persisted in, and will, I trust, continue to pro-
duce effects directly contrary to those intended.
They will unite, instead of dividing us, strengthen
and make us more resolute, instead of intimidating
us, and work our honor and advantage, instead of
the disgrace and ruin designed for us.

A bill is now in hand to confine the trade of the
four New England colonies to Britain and the West
Indies only, and to prohibit their fishery. Other
provinces have done as offensive things, but Whig-
gism is thought to be more thoroughly the principle
in New England, and that is now an unpardonable
sin. The rest, however, are to have their punish-
ment in their turn, though perhaps less severe. That
is, if this Tory ministry continues in power; but
though they have by the late deceptive motion
amused many people here, so as to give an appear-
ance as if they intended pacific measures, on which
the stocks, which were falling apace, have risen
again; yet, when this deceit is understood, and time
proves the intended offer to America futile and in-
effectual, the redoubled clamor of the trading, manu-
facturing, and Whig interests here will infallibly
overthrow all the enemies of America, and produce

1775] Benjamin Franklin 429

an acknowledgment of her rights and satisfaction for
her injuries.

If we continue firm and united, and resolutely per-
sist in the non-consumption agreement, this adverse
ministry cannot possibly stand another year. And
surely the great body of our people, the farmers and
artificers, will not find it hard to keep an agreement
by which they both save and gain. The traders only
can suffer, and where they do really suffer, some com-
pensation should, if possible, be made them. Hith-
erto the conduct of the colonies has given them great
reputation all over Europe. By a brave persever-
ance, with prudence and moderation, not forward in
acting offensively, but resolute in defence when
necessary, they will establish a respectable character
both for wisdom and courage, and then they will
find friends everywhere. The eyes of all Christen-
dom are now upon us, and our honor as a people is
become a matter of the utmost consequence to be
taken care of. If we tamely give up our rights in this
contest, a century to come will not restore us in the
opinion of the world; we shall be stamped with the
character of dastards, poltroons, and fools, and be
despised and trampled upon, not by this haughty,
insolent nation only, but by all mankind. Present
inconveniences are therefore to be borne with forti-
tude, and better times expected.

"Informes hy ernes reducit
Jupiter; idem
Summovet. Non si male nunc, et olim
Sic erit."

I am much pleased with Mr. Quincy. It is a

430 The Works of [1775

thousand pities his strength of body is not equal to
his strength of mind. His zeal for the public , like that
of David for God's house, will, I fear, eat him up.

I hope Mrs. Bowdoin's health is fully established.
Make my respectful compliments acceptable to her;
and believe me ever, with sincere and great esteem,
dear sir, etc.,

B. Franklin.

P. S. — I never could learn the cause of Mr. Tem-
ple's being displaced. The ministry refused to give
any reason for it. I have imagined that it was a sus-
picion of his being the author of some pieces in the
papers reflecting on their measures.

DXCVI

TO JOSEPH GALLOWAY

London, 25 February, 1775.

Dear Friend: — In my last I mentioned to you
my showing your plan of union to Lords Chatham
and Camden. I now hear that you had sent it to
Lord Dartmouth. Lord Gower, I believe, alluded to
it when in the House he censured the Congress se-
verely as first resolving to receive a plan for uniting
the colonies to the mother country, and afterwards
rejecting it, and ordering their first resolution to be
erased out of their minutes. Permit me to hint to
you that it is whispered here by ministerial people
that yourself and Mr.Jay, of New York, are friends to
their measures, and give them private intelligence of

1775] Benjamin Franklin 431

the views of the popular or country part in America.
I do not believe this; but I thought it a duty of
friendship to acquaint you with the report.'

I have not heard what objections were made to
the plan in the Congress, nor would I make more
than this one, that, when I consider the extreme cor-
ruption prevalent among all orders of men in this old,
rotten state, and the glorious public virtue so pre-
dominant in our rising country, I cannot but appre-
hend more mischief than benefit from a closer union.

^ Galloway was one of the delegates to the first Congress from Penn-
sylvania. Neither his sentiments nor his aims accorded with those
of the prominent patriots who were assembled on that occasion. He
proposed a plan of reconciliation, which was disapproved and rejected.
Dr. Gordon relates the circumstances as follows : ' ' Mr. Galloway be-
came a member at the earnest solicitation of the Assembly, and re-
fused compliance till they had given him instructions agreeable to his
own mind, as the rule of his conduct. These instructions they suf-
fered him to draw up. They were briefly to state the rights and the
grievances of America, and to propose a plan of amicable accommoda-
tion of the differences between Great Britain and the colonies, and of a
perpetual union. On the 28th of September a plan was proposed by
him, which was debated a whole day, when the question was carried,
six colonies to five, that it should be resumed and further considered;
but it at length fell through." — History, etc., Vol. I., p. 490.

Galloway published a pamphlet on the subject, which was not well
received by the patriotic party. Samuel Wharton, in a letter to Dr.
Franklin, written in England, and dated April 17, 1775, says: "I am
really grieved at the publication of Mr. Galloway's extraordinary
pamphlet. Our great friends in both Houses are exceedingly angry at
it, while the courtiers rejoice at that part of the pamphlet which re-
presents our divisions and controversies as to boundaries and modes
of religion, our incompetency to resist the power of this country, and
the undecided state of Congress for several weeks as to what really
were the rights of America. Yet the courtiers, at the same time, treat
with ineffable contempt the plan of union proposed, and which, they
say, by not being adopted, offended the author's pride, and has been
the happy means of their being satisfactorily confirmed in their ideas
of the weakness and division of the colonies, and that, by perseverance,
they shall unquestionably obtain a perfect submission." — Editor.

432 The Works of [1775

I fear they will drag us after them in all the pliin-
dering wars which their desperate circumstances, in-
justice, and rapacity may prompt them to undertake ;
and their wide-wasting prodigality and profusion is a
gulf that will swallow up every aid we may distress
ourselves to afford them.

Here numberless and needless places, enormous
salaries, pensions, perquisites, bribes, groundless
quarrels, foolish expeditions, false accounts or no
accounts, contracts and jobs, devour all revenue, and
produce continual necessity in the midst of natural
plenty. I apprehend, therefore, that to unite us
intimately will only be to corrupt and poison us also.
It seems like Mezentius' coupling and binding to-
gether the dead and the living.

"Tormenti genus, et sanie taboque fluentes,
Complexu in misero, longa sic morte necabat."

However, I would try any thing, and bear any thing
that can be borne with safety to our just liberties,
rather than engage in a war with such relations, un-
less compelled to it by dire necessity in our own
defence.

But, should that plan be again brought forward, I
imagine that before establishing the union, it would
be necessary to agree on the following preliminary
articles.

1 . The Declaratory Act of Parliament to be re-
pealed.

2 . All acts of Parliament, or parts of acts, laying
duties on the colonies to be repealed.

3. All acts of Parliament altering the charters,

1775] Benjamin Franklin 433

or constitutions, or laws of any colony, to be re-
pealed.

4. All acts of Parliament restraining manufactures
to be repealed.

5. Those parts of the navigation acts, which are
for the good of the whole empire, such as require that
ships in the trade should be British or Plantation
built, and navigated by three fourths British subjects,
with the duties necessary for regulating commerce,
to be reenacted by both Parliaments.

6. Then, to induce the Americans to see the regu-
lating acts faithfully executed, it would be well
to give the duties collected in each colony to the
treasury of that colony, and let the governor and
Assembly appoint the officers to collect them, and
proportion their salaries. Thus the business will be
cheaper and better done, and the misunderstandings
between the two countries, now created and fo-
mented by the unprincipled wretches, generally ap-
pointed from England, be entirely prevented.

These are hasty thoughts submitted to your
consideration.

You will see the new proposal of Lord North,
made on Monday last, which I have sent to the
committee.' Those in administration, who are for

* This proposal, which was introduced into Parliament by Lord
North on the 20th of February, is as follows: " That when the Govern-
or, Council, and Assembly, or General Court of his Majesty's pro-
vinces, or colonies, shall propose to make provision according to their
respective conditions, circumstances, and situations, for contributing
their proportion to the common defence, such proportion to be raised
under the authorities of the General Court, or General Assembly, of
such province or colony, and disposable by ParHament ; and shall en-
gage to make provision also for the support of the civil government,

VOL. VI. — 28.

434 The Works of [1775

violent measures, are said to dislike it. The others
rely upon it as a means of dividing, and by that means
subduing us. But I cannot conceive that any colony
will undertake to grant a revenue to a government
that holds a sword over their heads with a threat to
strike the moment they cease to give or do not give
so much as it is pleased to expect. In such a situa-
tion, where is the right of giving our own property
freely or the right to judge of our own ability to
give? It seems to me the language of a highway-
man, who, with a pistol in your face, says: "Give
me your purse, and then I will not put my hand into
your pocket. But give me all your money, or I will
shoot you through the head." With great and
sincere esteem, I am, etc.,

B. Franklin.

DXCVII

TO JOSIAH QUINCY

London, 26 February, 1775.

Dear Sir: — I received and perused with great
pleasure the letter you honored me with by your
amiable and valuable son. I thank you for introduc-
ing me to the acquaintance of a person so deserving

and the administration of justice in such province or colony, it will be
proper, if such proposal shall be approved by his Majesty in Parlia-
ment, and for so long as such provision shall be made accordingly, to
forbear in respect of such province or colony, to levy any duties, tax,
or assessment, or to impose any further duty, tax, or assessment, ex-
cept only such duties as it may be expedient to impose for the regula-
tion of commerce ; the net produce of the duties last mentioned to be
carried to the account of such province, colony, or plantation re-
spectively."— Almon's Parliamentary Register, Vol. I., p. 169.

1775] Benjamin Franklin 435

of esteem for his public and private virtues. I hope
for your sake and that of his friends and country,
that his present indisposition may wear off and his
health be established. His coming over has been of
great service to our cause, and would have been
much greater if his constitution would have borne
the fatigues of being more frequently in company.
He can acquaint you so fully with the state of things
here that my enlarging upon them will be unneces-
sary'^. I most sincerely wish him a prosperous voyage
and a happy meeting with his friends and family;
and to you, my old dear friend, and the rest of those
you love, every kind of felicity; being, with the
truest esteem and affection, yours,

B. Franklin.

Dxcvni

AN ACCOUNT OF NEGOTIATIONS IN LONDON FOR
EFFECTING A RECONCILIATION BETWEEN GREAT
BRITAIN AND THE AMERICAN COLONIES '

On Board the Pennsylvania Packet, Captain Osborne, |
Bound to Philadelphia, 22 March, 1775. '

Dear Son : — Having now a little leisure for writ-
ing, I will endeavor, as I promised you, to recollect

' Franklin remained in London several months after he announced
his purpose to surrender the agency of the colonies, in the hope that
something useful might result from negotiations which Lord Chatham
and others had opened with him. They came to nothing except to
demonstrate, what was already apparent to many of the leading
statesmen in America, that the union of England with her trans-
atlantic possessions could not endure. Penetrated at last himself
with this conviction, Franklin placed his London agencies in the hands

436 The Works of [1775

what particulars I can of the negotiations I have
lately been concerned in, with regard to the misun-
derstandings between Great Britain and America.

During the recess of the last Parliament, which had
passed the severe acts against the province of the
Massachusetts Bay, the minority having been sensi-
ble of their weakness, as an effect of their want of
imion among themselves, began to think seriously of

of Arthur Lee, and sailed in the Pennsylvania Packet for America about
the 20th of March, 1775. From a letter dated March 17th, and writ-
ten to a friend on the continent, whose name is not mentioned in the
draft from which an extract is here taken, it appears that he thought
of returning in a few months :

" Being about to embark for America, this line is just to take leave,
wishing you every kind of felicity, and to request that if you have not
yet purchased for me the Thcatrum Machinarum you will now omit
doing it, as I have the offer of a set here. But if you have purchased
it your draft on me will be duly paid in my absence by Mrs. Stevenson,
in whose hands I leave my little affairs till my return, which I propose,
God willing, in October. Mrs. Stevenson keeps the house in Craven
Street, wherein I have always lodged since my residence in London.

"Be pleased to present my htunble respects to your good prince,
with my best wishes for his prosperity, and repeat my thankful ac-
knowledgment for his gracious and benevolent proposition in my
favor, of which, though I could not, for the reasons I gave you, avail
myself, I shall nevertheless always retain the most grateful sense, and
if, either here or in America, I could render his highness any kind of
service, it would give me infinite pleasure."

During the voyage Franklin addressed to his son this account of his
closing negotiations, which constitutes a most important chapter in
the history of the causes which led to the independence of America.
It was first published by his grandson, William Temple Franklin, in
1816-17.

Franklin arrived in Philadelphia on the 5th of May. The Pennsyl-
vania Assembly was then sitting. The following resolve is contained
in the votes of the House: "May 6th. Resolved, unanimously, That
Benjamin Franklin be, and he is hereby, added to the deputies ap-
pointed by this House on the part of Pennsylvania, to attend the
Continental Congress expected to meet on the loth instant in this
city." — Editor.

1775] Benjamin Franklin 437

a coalition. For they saw in the violence of these
American measures, if persisted in, a hazard of dis-
membering, weakening, and perhaps ruining the
British empire. This inclined some of them to pro-
pose such an union with each other, as might be more
respectable in the ensuing session, have more weight
in opposition, and be a body out of which a new
ministry might easily be formed, should the ill suc-
cess of the late measures, and the firmness of the
colonies in resisting them, make a change appear
necessary to the king.

I took some pains to promote this disposition, in
conversations with several of the principal among the
minority of both Houses, whom I besought and con-
jured most earnestly not to suffer, by their little mis-
understandings, so glorious a fabric as the present
British empire to be demolished by these blunderers;
and for their encouragement assured them, as far as
my opinions could give any assurance, of the firm-
ness and unanimity of America, the continuance of
which was what they had frequent doubts of, and
appeared extremely apprehensive and anxious con-
cerning it.

From the time of the affront given me at the
Council Board, in January, 1774, I had never at-
tended the levee of any minister. I made no justifi-
cation of myself from the charges brought against
me; I made no return of the injury by abusing my
adversaries, but held a cool, sullen silence, reserving
myself to some future opportunity; for which con-
duct I had several reasons not necessary here to
specify. Now and then I heard it said, that the

438 The Works of [1775

reasonable part of the administration was ashamed
of the treatment they had given me. I suspected
that some who told me this, did it to draw from me
my sentiments concerning it, and perhaps my pur-
poses; but I said little or nothing upon the subject.
In the meantime, their measures with regard to
New England failing of the success that had been
confidently expected, and finding themselves more
and more embarrassed, they began, as it seems, to
think of making use of me, if they could, to assist in
disengaging them. But it was too humiliating to
think of applying to me openly and directly, and
therefore it was contrived to obtain what they could
of my sentiments through others.

The accounts from America during the recess all
manifested that the measures of administration had
neither divided nor intimidated the people there;
that, on the contrary, they were more and more
united and determined ; and that a non-importation
agreement was likely to take place. The ministry
thence apprehending that this, by distressing the
trading and manufacturing towns, might influence
votes against the court in the elections for a new
Parliament (which were in course to come on the
succeeding year), suddenly and unexpectedly dis-
solved the old one, and ordered the choice of a new
one within the shortest time admitted by law, before
the inconveniences of that agreement could begin to
be felt, or produce any such effect.

When I came to England in 1757, you may remem-
ber I made several attempts to be introduced to Lord
Chatham (at that time first minister), on accoimt of

1775] Benjamin Franklin 439

my Pennsylvania business, but without success. He
was then too great a man, or too much occupied in
affairs of greater moment. I was therefore obliged to
content myself with a kind of non-apparent and un-
acknowledged communication through Mr. Potter
and Mr. Wood, his secretaries, who seemed to culti-
vate an acquaintance with me by their civilities, and
drew from me what information I could give relative
to the American war, with my sentiments occasionally
on measures that were proposed or advised by others,
which gave me the opportunity of recommending and
enforcing the utility of conquering Canada. I after-
wards considered Mr. Pitt as an inaccessible. I ad-
mired him at a distance, and made no more attempts
for a nearer acquaintance. I had only once or twice
the satisfaction of hearing through Lord Shelbume,
and I think Lord Stanhope, that he did me the honor
of mentioning me sometimes as a person of respect-
able character.

But towards the end of August last, returning from
Brighthelmstone, I called to visit my friend Mr. Sar-
gent, at his seat, Halsted, in Kent, agreeable to a
former engagement. He let me know that he had
promised to conduct me to Lord Stanhope's at Chev-
ening, who expected I would call on him when I
came into that neighborhood. We accordingly
waited on Lord Stanhope that evening, who told
me that Lord Chatham desired to see me, and that
Mr. Sargent's house, where I was to lodge, being in
the way, he would call for me there the next morn-
ing, and carry me to Hayes. This was done accord-
ingly. That truly great man received me with
The Works of [1775

abundance of civility, inquired particularly into the
situation of affairs in America, spoke feelingly of the
severity of the late laws against the Massachusetts,
gave me some account of his speech in opposing
them, and expressed great regard and esteem for the
people of that country, who he hoped would continue
firm and united in defending by all peaceable and
legal means their constitutional rights. I assured
him that I made no doubt they would do so ; which
he said he was pleased to hear from me, as he was
sensible I must be well acquainted with them.

I then took occasion to remark to him that in for-
mer cases great empires had crumbled first at their
extremities from this cause; that countries remote
from the seat and eye of government, which there-
fore could not well understand their affairs for want
of full and true information, had never been well
governed, but had been oppressed by bad governors,
on presumption that complaint was difficult to be
made and supported against them at such a distance.
Hence, such governors had been encouraged to go on
till their oppressions became intolerable. But that
this empire had happily found, and long been in the
practice of, a method, whereby every province was
well governed, being trusted in a great measure with
the government of itself ; and that hence had arisen
such satisfaction in the subjects, and such encourage-
ment to new settlements, that, had it not been for the
late wrong politics (which would have Parliament to
be omnipotent, though it ought not to be so unless it
could at the same time be omniscient), we might
have gone on extending our western empire, adding

1775] Benjamin Franklin 441

province to province, as far as the South Sea. That
I lamented the ruin which seemed impending over
so fine a plan, so well adapted to make all the subjects
of the greatest empire happy; and I hoped that if
his lordship, with the other great and wise men of
the British nation, would unite and exert themselves,
it might yet be rescued out of the mangling hands of
the present set of blundering ministers; and that
the union and harmony between Britain and her
colonies, so necessary to the welfare of both, might
be restored.

He replied, with great politeness, that my idea of
extending our empire in that manner was a sound
one, worthy of a great, benevolent, and comprehen-
sive mind. He wished with me for a good under-
standing among the different parts of the opposition
here, as a means of restoring the ancient harmony of
the two countries, which he most earnestly desired;
but he spoke of the coalition of our domestic parties
as attended with difficulty, and rather to be desired
than expected. He mentioned an opinion prevailing
here : that America aimed at setting up for itself as
an independent State; or, at least, to get rid of the
Navigation Acts. I assured him that, having more
than once travelled almost from one end of the con-
tinent to the other, and kept a great variety of com-
pany, eating, drinking, and conversing with them
freely, I never had heard in any conversation from
any person, drunk or sober, the least expression of a
wish for a separation, or hint that such a thing would
be advantageous to America. And as to the Navi-
gation Act, the main, material part of it> that of

442 The Works of [1775

carrying on trade in British or plantation bottoms,
excluding foreign ships from our ports, and navigating
with three quarters British seamen, was as acceptable
as it could be to Britain. That we were even not
against regulations of the general commerce by Par-
liament, provided such regulations were bond fide for
the benefit of the whole ■ empire , not for the small
advantage of one part to the great injury of another,
such as the obliging our ships to call in England with
our wine and fruit from Portugal or Spain, the re-
straints on our manufactures in the woollen and
hat-making branches, the prohibiting of slitting-
mills, steel-works, etc. He allowed that some amend-
ment might be made in those acts ; but said those
relating to the slitting-mills, trip-hammers, and steel-
works were agreed to by our agents, on a com-
promise on the opposition made here to abating
the duty.

In fine, he expressed much satisfaction in my hav-
ing called upon him, and particularly in the assur-
ances I had given him that America did not aim at
independence; adding that he should be glad to see
me again as often as might be. I said I should not
fail to avail myself of the permission he was pleased
to give me of waiting upon his lordship occasionally,
being very sensible of the honor, and of the great
advantages and improvement I should reap from his
instructive conversation; which indeed was not a
mere compliment.

The new Parliament was to meet the 29th of No-
vember, 1774. About the beginning of that month,
being at the Royal Society, Mr. Raper, one of our

1775] Benjamin Franklin 443

members, told me there was a certain lady who had
a desire of playing with me at chess, fancying she
cotild beat me, and had requested him to bring me
to her. It was, he said, a lady with whose acquaint-
ance he was sure I should be pleased, a sister of
Lord Howe, and he hoped I would not refuse the
challenge. I said I had been long out of practice,
but would wait upon the lady when he and she
should think fit. He told me where her house was,
and would have me call soon, and, without further
introduction, which I undertook to do; but, think-
ing it a Httle awkward, I postponed it; and on the
30th, meeting him again at the feast of the Society
election, being the day after the Parliament met, he
put me in mind of my promise, and that I had not
kept it, and would have me name a day when he said
he would call for me, and conduct me. I named the
Friday following. He called accordingly. I went
with him, played a few games with the lady, whom I
found of very sensible conversation and pleasing be-
havior, which induced me to agree most readily to
an appointment for another meeting a few days after-
wards ; though I had not the least apprehension that
any political business could have any connection
with this new acquaintance.

On the Thursday preceding this chess party, Mr.
David Barclay called on me to have some discourse
concerning the meeting of merchants to petition
Parliament. When that was over, he spoke of the
dangerous situation of American affairs, the hazard
that a civil war might be brought on by the present
measures, and the great merit that person would have

444 The Works of [1775

who could contrive some means of preventing so
terrible a calamity, and bring about a reconciliation.
He was then pleased to add that he was persuaded,
from my knowledge of both countries, my character
and influence in one of them, and my abilities in
business, no man had so much in his power as my-
self. I naturally answered that I should be very
happy if I could in any degree be instrumental in so
good a work, but that I saw no prospect of it; for,
though I was sure the Americans were always will-
ing and ready to agree upon any equitable terms, yet
I thought an accommodation impracticable, unless
both sides wished it ; and, by what I could judge from
the proceedings of the ministry, I did not believe they
had the least disposition towards it ; that they rather
wished to provoke the North American people into
an open rebellion, which might justify a military exe-
cution, and thereby gratify a grounded malice, which
I conceived to exist here against the Whigs and Dis-
senters of that country. Mr. Barclay apprehended
I judged too harshly of the ministers; he was per-
suaded they were not all of that temper, and he
fancied they would be very glad to get out of their
present embarrassment on any terms, only saving the
honor and dignity of the government. He wished,
therefore, that I would think of the matter, and he
would call again and converse with me further upon
it. I said I would do so, as he requested it, but I
had no opinion of its answering any purpose. We
parted upon this. But two days after I received a
letter from him, enclosed in a note from Dr. Fother-
gill, both of which follow :

1775] Benjamin Franklin 445

YouNGSBURY, near Ware, 3d, 12th Month, 1774.

Esteemed Friend : — After we parted on Thursday
last, I accidentally met our mutual friend, Dr.
Fothergill, in my way home, and intimated to him
the subject of our discourse; in consequence of
which, I have received from him an invitation to a
further conference on this momentous affair, and I
intend to be in town to-morrow accordingly to meet
at his house between four and five o'clock; and we
unite in the request of thy company. We are neither
of us insensible that the affair is of that magnittide as
should almost deter private persons from meddling
with it; at the same time we are respectively such
well-wishers to the cause, that nothing in our power
ought to be left undone, though the utmost of our
efforts may be unavailable. I am thy respectful

friend,

David Barclay.
Dr. Franklin, Craven Street.

Dr. Fothergill presents his respects to Dr.
Franklin, and hopes for the favor of his company in
Harpur Street, to-morrow evening, to meet their
mutual friend, David Barclay, to confer on American
affairs. As near five o'clock as may be convenient.

Harpur Street, 3d inst.'

The time thus appointed was the evening of the
day on which I was to have my second chess party

^ David Barclay was a member of Parliament, and a person of great
note among the Quakers of that day. Dr. Fothergill, also a Quaker,
was a physician in high repute in London at this time. In 1775 and
1776 when an influenza prevailed, he numbered on an average sixty
patients a day, and his practice was supposed to be worth $40,000
annually. But for his religion, the king would have appointed him

44^ The Works of [1775

with the agreeable Mrs. Howe, whom I met accord-
ingly. After playing as long as we liked, we fell into
a little chat, partly on a mathematical problem,' and
partly about the new Parliament, then just met,
when she said: "And what is to be done with this
dispute between Great Britain and the colonies? I
hope we are not to have a civil war." " They should
kiss and be friends," said I; "what can they do
better? Quarrelling can be of service to neither, but
is ruin to both." "I have often said," replied she,
"that I wished government would employ you to
settle the dispute for them ; I am sure nobody could
do it so well. Do not you think that the thing is
practicable ? " " Undoubtedly , madam, if the parties
are disposed to reconciliation ; for the two countries
have really no clashing interests to differ about. It
is rather a matter of punctilio, which two or three
reasonable people might settle in half an hour. I
thank you for the good opinion you are pleased to
express of me; but the ministers will never think of
employing me in that good work; for they choose
rather to abuse me." "Aye," said she, "they have
behaved shamefully to you. And indeed some of
them are now ashamed of it themselves." I looked
upon this as accidental conversation, thought no
more of it, and went in the evening to the appointed

Physician Extraordinary to the royal family. See Letters to Lord
North, Vol. I., p. 202. The Doctor died in 1783. Dr. Franklin wrote
of him about that time that "if we may estimate the goodness of a
man by his disposition to do good and his constant endeavor and suc-
cess in doing it, I can hardly conceive that a better man has ever
existed." — Editor.

' This lady (which is a little unusual in ladies) has a good deal of
mathematical knowledge. — B. F.

1775] Benjamin Franklin 447

meeting at Dr. Fothergill's, where I found Mr.
Barclay with him.

The doctor expatiated feelingly on the mischiefs
likely to ensue from the present difference, the neces-
sity of accommodating it, and the great merit of be-
ing instrumental in so good a work, concluding with
some compliments to me: that nobody understood
the subject so thoroughly, and had a better head for
business of the kind ; that it seemed therefore a duty
incumbent on me, to do every thing I could to ac-
complish a reconciliation; and that, as he had with
pleasure heard from David Barclay, that I had
promised to think of it, he hoped I had put pen to
paper, and formed some plan for consideration, and
brought it with me. I answered, that I had formed
no plan, as the more I thought of the proceedings
against the colonies the more satisfied I was that
there did not exist the least disposition in the minis-
try to an accommodation; that therefore all plans
must be useless. He said I might be mistaken ; that,
whatever was the violence of some, he had reason,
good reason, to believe others were differently dis-
posed; and that, if I would draw a plan, which we
three upon considering should judge reasonable, it
might be made use of, and answer some good purpose,
since he believed that either himself or David Barclay
could get it communicated to some of the most
moderate among the ministers, who would consider
it with attention; and what appeared reasonable to
us, two of us being Englishmen, might appear so
to them.

As they both urged this with great earnestness,

448 The Works of [1775

and when I mentioned the impropriety of my doing
any thing of the kind at the time we were in daily
expectation of hearing from the Congress, who un-
doubtedly would be explicit on the means of restoring
a good understanding, they seemed impatient, alleg-
ing that it was uncertain when we should receive the
result of the Congress, and what it would be; that
the least delay might be dangerous; that additional
punishments for New England were in contempla-
tion, and accidents might widen the breach and
make it irreparable ; therefore something preventive
could not be too soon thought of and applied. I
was therefore finally prevailed with to promise doing
what they desired, and to meet them again on
Tuesday evening at the same place, and bring with
me something for their consideration.

Accordingly, at the time, I met with them and
produced the following paper.

Hints for Conversation upon the Subject of Terms
that Might Probably Produce a Durable Union
between Britain and the Colonies

1. The tea destroyed to be paid for.

2. The Tea-duty Act to be repealed, and all the
duties that have been received upon it to be repaid
into the treasuries of the several provinces from
which they have been collected.

3. The Acts of Navigation to be all reenacted in
the colonies.

4. A naval officer, appointed by the crown, to
reside in each colony, to see that those acts are
observed.

1775] Benjamin Franklin 449

5. All the acts restraining manufactures in the
colonies to be repealed.

6. All duties arising on the acts for regulating
trade with the colonies, to be for the public use of
the respective colonies, and paid into their treasuries.
The collectors and custom-house officers to be
appointed by each governor, and not sent from
England.

7. In consideration of the Americans maintaining
their own peace establishment, and the monopoly
Britain is to have of their commerce, no requisition
to be made from them in time of peace.

8. No troops to enter and quarter in any colony,
but with the consent of its legislature.

9. In time of war, on requisition made by the
king, with the consent of Parliament, every colony
shall raise money by the following rules or propor-
tions, viz. : If Britain, on account of the war, raises
three shillings in the pound to its land tax, then the
colonies to add to their last general provincial peace
tax a sirni equal to one fourth thereof; and if Brit-
ain, on the same account, pays four shillings in the
pound, then the colonies to add to their said last
peace tax a sum equal to half thereof, which addi-
tional tax is to be granted to his Majesty, and to be
employed in raising and paying men for land or sea
service, furnishing provisions, transports, or for such
other purposes as the king shall require and direct.
And, though no colony may contribute less, each
may add as much by voluntary grant as they shall
think proper.

10. Castle William to be restored to the province

450 The Works of [1775

of the Massachusetts Bay, and no fortress built by
the crown in any province, but with the consent of
its legislature.

11. The late Massachusetts and Quebec Acts to
be repealed, and a free government granted to
Canada.

12. All judges to be appointed during good be-
havior, with equally permanent salaries, to be paid
out of the province revenues by appointment of the
Assemblies. Or, if the judges are to be appointed
during the pleasure of the crown, let the salaries be
dtiring the pleasure of the Assemblies, as heretofore.

13. Governors to be supported by the Assemblies
of each province.

14. If Britain will give up its monopoly of the
American commerce, then the aid above mentioned
to be given by America in time of peace as well as in
time of war.

15. The extension of the act of Henry the Eighth,
concerning treasons to the colonies, to be formally
disowned by Parliament.

16. The American admiralty courts reduced to the
same powers they have in England, and the acts
establishing them to be reenacted in America.

1 7 . All powers of internal legislation in the colonies
to be disclaimed by Parliament.

In reading this paper a second time, I gave my
reasons at length for each article.

On the ist I observed that, when the injury was
done, Britain had a right to reparation, and would
certainly have had it on demand, as was the case

T7751 Benjamin Franklin 451

when injury was done by mobs in the time of the
Stamp Act ; or she might have a right to return an
equal injury, if she rather chose to do that; but she
could not have a right both to reparation and to re-
turn an equal injury; much less had she a right to
return the injury ten or twenty-fold, as she had done
by blocking up the port of Boston. All which extra
injury ought, in my judgment, to be repaired by
Britain. That, therefore, if paying for the tea was
agreed to by me, as an article fit to be proposed, it
was merely from a desire of peace, and in compliance
with their opinion expressed at our first meeting ; that
this was a sine qua non, that the dignity of Britain
required it, and that, if this was agreed to, every
thing else would be easy. This reasoning was al-
lowed to be just; but still the article was thought
necessary to stand as it did.

On the 2d, That the act should be repealed, as
having never answered any good purpose, as having
been the cause of the present mischief, and never
likely to be executed. That, the act being considered
as unconstitutional by the Americans, and what the
Parliament had no right to make, they must consider
all the money extorted by it as so much wrongfully
taken, and of which therefore restitution ought to be
made ; and the rather, as it would furnish a fund out
of which the payment for the tea destroyed might
best be defrayed. The gentlemen were of opinion
that the first part of this article, viz., the repeal,
might be obtained, but not the refunding part, and
therefore advised striking that out ; but, as I thought
it just and right, I insisted on its standing.

452 The Works of [1775

On the 3d and 4th articles, I observed we were fre-
quently charged with views of abolishing the Naviga-
tion Act. That, in truth, those parts of it which were
of most importance to Britain, as tending to increase
its naval strength, viz., those restraining the trade to
be carried on only in ships belonging to British sub-
jects, navigated by at least three quarters British or
colony seamen, etc., were as acceptable to us as they
could be to Britain, since we wished to employ our
own ships in preference to foreigners, and had no
desire to see foreign ships enter our ports. That in-
deed the obliging us to land some of our commodities
in England before we could carry them to foreign
markets, and forbidding our importation of some
goods directly from foreign countries, we thought a
hardship, and a greater loss to us than gain to
Britain, and therefore proper to be repealed. But,
as Britain had deemed it an equivalent for her protec-
tion, we had never applied, or proposed to apply, for
such a repeal. And, if they must be continued, I
thought it best (since the power of Parliament to
make them was now disputed) that they should be
reenacted in all the colonies which would demon-
strate their consent to them. And then, if, as in the
sixth article, all the duties arising on them were to
be collected by officers appointed and salaried in the
respective governments, and the produce paid into
their treasuries, I was sure the acts would be better
and more faithfully executed, and at much less
expense, and one great source of misunderstanding
removed between the two countries, viz., the calum-
nies of low officers appointed from home, who were

17751 Benjamin Franklin 453

for ever abusing the people of the country to govern-
ment, to magnify their own zeal, and recommend
themselves to promotion. That the extension of
the admiralty jurisdiction, so much complained of,
would then no longer be necessary ; and that, besides
its being the interest of the colonies to execute those
acts, which is the best security, government might be
satisfied of its being done, from accounts to be sent
home by the naval officers of the fourth article.
The gentlemen were satisfied with these reasons,
and approved the 3d and 4th articles ; so they were
to stand.

The 5th they apprehended would meet with diffi-
culty. They said that restraining manufactures in
the colonies was a favorite idea here; and therefore
they wished that article to be omitted, as the pro-
posing it would alarm and hinder perhaps the con-
sidering and granting others of more importance;
but, as I insisted on the equity of allowing all sub-
jects in every country to make the most of their
natural advantages, they desired I would at least
alter the last word from repealed to reconsidered,
which I complied with.

In maintaining the 7 th article (which was at first
objected to, on the principle that all under the care
of government should pay towards the supporting of
it), my reasons were that, if every distinct part of the
king's dominions supported its own government in
time of peace, it was all that could be justly required
of it; that all the old or confederate colonies had
done so from the beginning ; that their taxes for that
purpose were very considerable ; that new coimtries
The Works of [1775

had many public expenses, which old ones were free
from, the works being done to their hands by their
ancestors, such as making roads and bridges, erecting
churches, court-houses, forts, quays, and other public
buildings, founding schools and places of education,
hospitals and alms-houses, etc., etc. ; that the volun-
tary and the legal subscriptions and taxes for such
purposes, taken together, amounted to more than
was paid by equal estates in Britain. That it would
be best for Britain, on two accounts, not to take
money from us, as contribution to its public expense,
in time of peace; first, for that just so much less
would be got from us in commerce, since all we could
spare was already gained from us by Britain in that
way; and secondly, that coming into the hands of
British ministers, accustomed to prodigality of public
money, it would be squandered and dissipated, an-
swering no good general purpose. That if we were
to be taxed towards the support of government in
Britain, as Scotland has been since the union, we
ought to be allowed the same privileges in trade here
as she has been allowed. That if we are called
upon to give to the sinking fund, or the national debt,
Ireland ought to be likewise called upon; and both
they and we, if we gave, ought to have some means
established of inquiring into the application, and
securing a compliance with the terms on which we
should grant. The British ministers would perhaps
not like our meddling with such matters; and that
hence might arise new causes of misunderstanding.
That upon the whole, therefore, I thought it best on
all sides, that no aids shall be asked or accepted from

1775] Benjamin Franklin 455

the colonies in time of peace ; that it would then be
their interest to grant bountifully and exert them-
selves vigorously in time of war, the sooner to put
an end to it. That specie was not to be had to send
to England in supphes, but the colonies could carry
on war with their own paper money; which would
pay troops, and for provisions, transports, carriages,
clothing, arms, etc. So this 7th article was at
length agreed to without further objection.

The 8th the gentlemen were confident would never
be granted. For the whole world would be of opinion
that the king, who is to defend all parts of his domin-
ions, should have of course a right to place his troops
where they might best answer that purpose. I sup-
ported the article upon principles equally important,
in my opinion, to Britain as to the colonies; for that
if the king could bring into one part of his domin-
ions troops raised in any other part of them, without
the consent of the legislatures of the part to which
they were brought, he might bring armies raised in
America into England without consent of Parlia-
ment, which probably would not like it, as a few
years since they had not liked the introduction of the
Hessians and Hanoverians, though, justified by the
supposition of its being a time of danger. That, if
there should be at atiy time real occasion for British
troops in America, there was no doubt of obtaining
the consent of the Assemblies there; and I was
so far from being willing to drop this article, that I
thought I ought to add another, requiring all the
present troops to be withdrawn before America could
be expected to treat or agree upon any terms of

456 The Works of [1775

accommodation; as what they should now do of
that kind might be deemed the effect of compulsion,
the appearance of which ought as much as possible
to be avoided, since those reasonable things might
be agreed to, where the parties seemed at least to act
freely, which would be strongly refused under threats
or the semblance of force. That the withdrawing
the troops was therefore necessary to make any
treaty durably binding on the part of the Americans,
since proof of having acted under force would invali-
date any agreement. And it could be no wonder
that we should insist on the crown's having no right
to bring a standing army among us in time of peace,
when we saw now before our eyes a striking instance
of the ill use to be made of it, viz., to distress the
king's subjects in different parts of his dominions,
one part after the other, into a submission to arbi-
trary power, which was the avowed design of the
army and fleet now placed at Boston. Finding me
obstinate the gentlemen consented to let this stand,
but did not seem quite to approve of it. They
wished, they said, to have this a paper or plan which
they might show as containing the sentiments of
considerate, impartial persons, and such as they
might as Englishmen support, which they thought
could not well be the case with this article.

END OF VOLUME VI

lU!!l!!:iill


===== Benjamin Franklin - Founders Online (complete) + Works of Benjamin Franklin (Sparks, 10 vols, PD) (vol. 7) =====
Source: https://archive.org/download/worksofbenjaminf07fran/worksofbenjaminf07fran_djvu.txt

ill

NYPL RESEARCH LIBRARIES

3 3433 08173749 0

^,^i

"^i

■^^

.'■■:,., «
"'i^^

THE
NEW YORK PUBLIC LIBRARY

The Amy Angell Collier Montague

AND Gilbert H. Montague

Collection

<

BEM HARBOR LIBRARY.
9 f C

l/\\^J

FEDERAL EDITION
Limited to 1,000 signed and numbered sets.

The Collector's Federal Edition of the Writings
of Benjamin Franklin is limited to six hundred
signed and numbered sets, of which this is

Number __;^_yL__J_

We guarantee that no limited, numbered edition,
other than the Federal, shall be printed from these
plates.

The written number must correspond with the
perforated number at top of this page.

Benjamin Franklin

From the painting by Mason Chamberlain, R. A.

btALfiAh

f(lork$ of

fitjattttE

ttt

m

(!]^m?lii4? ilulum^JS

^tberui €b'\ium

The Works of

Benjamin Franklin

Including the Private as well as the
Official and Scientific Correspondence

Together with

The Unmutilated and Correct Version of the Autobiography

Compiled and Edited
by

John Bigelow

Strange that Ulysses does a thousand things so well." — Iliad, B. ii, 335

Volume VII

G. P. Putnam's Sons

New York and London

^be Iknicliei-boctiei; pcesa
Zbc ftntcfterbocftcr prese, "Wew JSorft

CONTENTS OF VOLUME VII
DXCVIIL— Franklin's Account of the Nego-
tiations IN London for Effecting
A Reconciliation between Great
Britain and the American Colo-
nies, March 220 (Continued) . 3
DXCIX. — To Joseph Priestley, May i6th . 78
State of America on Dr. Franklin's
return.

DC. — To Mrs. Mecom, May 26th . . 79
Rettirn from England — Chosen to the
Continental Congress.
DCI. — To Mr. Strahan, July 5 h . -79
DCII. — To Joseph Priestley, July 7TH 80

Conciliation hopeless — General Gage
— Franklin's occupations.
DCIII.~To Mrs. Mary Hewson, July 8th . 82
DCIV. — To Peter V. B. Livingston, August

29TH ...... 84

Powder for the use of the troops in New
York.
DCV. — To Joseph Priestley, October 30 . 85
First campaign made by the British
forces in America.
DCVL — To A Friend in England, October

3D ......

The tendency to a speedy separation be-
tween Great Britain and the colonies.
iv Contents of Volume VII

PAGE

DCVII.— To Charles W. F. Dumas, December

9TH 87

Asking him to ascertain from the Diplo-
matic Corps at The Hague whether any of
the European courts are disposed to afford
assistance to the American colonies — State
of affairs in America.
DCVIII. — To His Most Serene Highness, Don
Gabriel of Bourbon, December
I2TH ...... 92

On receiving his version of Sallust.
DCIX. — Articles of Confederation and
Perpetual Union, Proposed in
General Congress ... 94
DCX. — Vindication and Offer from Con-
gress to Parliament . . . loi
DCXI. — The British Nation as it Appeared

TO the Colonists in 1775 . . 109
DCXII. — To Charles Lee, February iith . no
Saltpetre and powder — Bows and arrows
— Reconciliation with England hopeless.
DCXIII. — To Charles Lee, February 19TH . 113

Introducing Thomas Paine.
DCXIV. — From David Hartley, February

24TH ...... 114

Urging measures of conciliation.
DCXV. — To Philip Schuyler, March iith . 117
Appointment of Commissioners to Canada
DCXVL — To Lord Stirling, March 27TH . 121
Franklin's journey to Canada.
DCXVIL — To Josiah Quincy, April 15TH . 122

Journey to Canada — Doings of Congress.
DCXVin. — To Philip Schuyler, May 27TH . 123
Journey from Albany to New York.
DCXIX. — To THE Commissioners in Canada,

May 27TH ..... 125

German aiixiliaries — Feeble health.

Contents of Volume VII v

PAGE

DCXX. — To George Washington, July 220 . 126
Joseph Belton's contrivance for coast de-
fence.
DCXXI. — To Horatio Gates, August 28th . 127
Resolves of Congress for spreading dis-
affection among the Hessian troops — Prizes
taken at sea — Dr. Price — Advices from
England.
DCXXII. — Sketch of Propositions for a

Peace 128

DCXXIII.— To Philip Mazzei . . . .131
The Academy of Ttirin — Silk culture in
America — Ravizzoni.
DCXXIV. — Correspondence and Interview

WITH Lord Howe .... 133
DCXXV. — To Thomas Morris, December 4TH . 148
Arrival in France.
DCXXVI. — To Silas Deane, December 4TH . 149
On his way to France — Captvu-es on his
voyage — Shipment of indigo by Congress to
pay the Commissioners' expenses — Requests
Deane to notify Lee of his appointment,
and to secure lodgings for himself in Paris.
DCXXVII. — To M. Barbeu Dubourg, December

4TH 151

Corrects false impressions prevailing in
France about reported military reverses at
home

DCXXVIII. — To John Hancock, President op

Congress, December 8th . -153
Announces his arrival in France — Does
not assume a public character — Military
stores for Ainerica.
DCXXIX. — To the Committee of Secret Cor-
respondence, December 8th . 156
Captain Wickes and his prizes.
DCXXX. — To THE Count de Vergennes, De-
cember 23D ..... 157
Notification to the French Minister of
Foreign Affairs by the Commissioners of
Congress of their appointment.

vi Contents of Volume VII
PAGE

DCXXXI. — Comparison of Great Britain and
THE United States in Regard to
THE Basis of Credit in the Two
Countries ..... 159
DCXXXII. — To the Committee of Secret Cor-
respondence, January 4TH . . 168
First audience with the Minister of For-
eign Affairs.
DCXXXIII.— To Mrs. Mary Hewson, January

I2TH ...... 168

DCXXXIV. — To Juliana Ritchie, January 19TH . 170
Franklin's precaution against spies.
DCXXXV. — To THE President of Congress,

January 2oth . . . -171
DCXXXVI.— To Mr. T. Morris, January 26TH . 171

Appeal for remittances.

DCXXXVII. — Instructions to Captain Nicholson

January 26th .... 172
Directions to purchase a vessel for the
United States.
DCXXXVIII. — Supposed to be to M. Montaudoin,

January 26th 173

DCXXXIX.— To Mrs. Mary Hewson, January

26th . . . . . .174

DCXL. — To Joseph Priestley, January 27TH 176
The philosopher's stone — Affairs in
America.
DCXLI. — From William Dodd, January 29TH 177
DCXLII. — To John Ingenhousz . . .178

Why Franklin was sent to France.

DCXLIII. — To THE Right Honorable Lord
George Sackville Germaine, One
of the Principal Secretaries op
State, to the King op Great
Britain, February 7TH . . 181

DCXLIV.— To Mrs. Thompson, at Lisle, Febru-
ary 8th ..... 182

Contents of Volume VII

PAGE

DCXLV.— To General Washington . . i86

DCXLVI. — From Georgiana Shipley, Febru-
ary iiTH ..... 187
DCXLVII. — From the Count de Schaumbergh
to the Baron Hohendorf, Com-
manding THE Hessian Troops in
America, February iSth . . 191
A jeu d'esprit.
DCXLVIII. — To Richard Peters, March 6th . 196
Introducing Captain Garanger.
DCXLIX. — To Arthur Lee, March 2ist . . 197
DCL.— To M. Lith, April 6th . . .202
A lesson about corresponding with
strangers.
DCLL— To Count d'Aranda, Spanish Am-
bassador to the Court of France,

April 7TH 205

DCLII. — To Mr. Rybot, April 9TH . . 207

DCLIII. — To Richard Bache, Esq., April

14TH 208

DCLIV. — To the Bishop of Tricomie, April

22D ...... 208

DCLV. — To His Excellency the Viscount

de ponte de lima, minister for

Foreign Affairs of the Kingdom

OF Portugal, April 26th

DCLVI. — To His Excellency the Ambassador

from Portugal, April 26th

A remonstrance.

DCLVn.— To Thomas Cushing, May ist .

DCLVni.— To Samuel Cooper, May ist .

The American cause in Europe.

DCLIX. — To John Winthrop, May ist .

Dr. Price — The German princes.

DCLX.— To A Friend ....

SoHcitors of military appointments i:
America.
DCLXI. — To George Washington, June 13TH
Introducing a Polish officer.
214
218

viii Contents of Volume VII

PAGE

DCLXII. — To George Washington, June 13TH 223
Introducing Baron de Frey.
DCLXIII. — To Capt. Johnson, July 220 . . 223
Commending Chevalier de Kninon, a
passenger, to his civiUties.
DCLXIV. — To Gen. Washington, September

4TH ...... 224

Introducing Baron Steuben.
DCLXV. — To Richard Peters, September

I2TH 224

Introducing M. Gerard.
DCLXVI. — To David Hartley, October 14TH . 225
The misconduct of Great Britain — Her
cruel treatment of American prisoners —
Proposals for their relief.
DCLXVII. — To a Friend, October 14TH . . 230
Pointed conductors.
DCLXVIII.— To Captain Thompson and C. Hin-

man, November 25TH . . -231
Instructions for cruising.
DCLXIX.— To Mr. Thornton . . . .233
Instructions for the relief of American
prisoners in England.

DCLXX. — To Sir Grey Cooper, December

iiTH ...... 235

American prisoners in England.
DCLXXI. — To James Lovell, December 2ist . 236
Applications for appointments in the
American Service.
DCLXXII. — A Dialogue between Britain,
France, Spain, Holland, Saxony,
and America .... 238

DCLXXIII. — A Catechism Relative to the Eng-
lish National Debt . . 242
DCLXXIV. — To Ralph Izard, January 29TH . 244
DCLXXV. — To James Hutton, February ist . 245
On the means for reconciling Great
Britain and America.

Contents of Volume VII

PAGE

DCLXXVI.— To David Hartley, February i2TH 248
American prisoners — Conduct of France
toward the United States— A change of
ministry necessary to a reconciliation.
DCLXXVII.— To Thomas Gushing, February 2ist 251
The treaty of alHance and commerce.
DCLXXVIIL— To Arthur Lee, February 23D . 255
Lord North— Rtimors of a treaty between
Washington and Howe.
DCLXXIX.— To M. Gerard, February 24TH . 255
Contradicting reports of treaties between
English Commissioners and Congress.
DCLXXX.— To M. Gerard, February 25TH . 256
DCLXXXI.— To David Hartley, February 26TH . 257
Lord North's bill of conciliation — Advice
to the English Whigs.
DCLXXXII.— To Mrs. Catherine Greene, Febru-
ary 28TH 260

DCLXXXIII. — A True History of the Difference
between the colonies and the
Author of the Stamp Act, March

I2TH 262

DCLXXXIV.— To Arthur Lee, March 17TH . . 266
Concerning bills drawn by Congress on
the Commissioners.
DCLXXXV.— To James Hutton, March 24TH . 267
DCLXXXVL— To Ralph Izard, March 30TH . . 268
DCLXXXVIL— To William Pulteney, March 30TH 271
America can only treat on the basis of
independence, nor at all if England makes
war on France.
DCLXXXVin. — To Mr. President Laurens, March

31ST 273

Introducing M. Gerard.
DCLXXXIX. — To THE President of Congress,

March 31ST 274

Relating to Silas Deane.

DCXC— To Monsieur Gerard, April ist . 275
England's propositions came too late.

Contents of Volume VII

PAGE

DCXCI. — To Arthur Lee, April ist . . 275
The Commissioners' accoimts.
DCXCII. — To Arthur Lee, April 4TH . . 277
On the style of his personal intercourse
with the Commissioners.
DCXCIIL— To Arthur Lee, April 6th . . 285
DCXCIV. — To the Grand Pensionary of Hol-
land, April ioth .... 286
DCXCV.— To M. Dumas, April ioth . . 287

DCXCVL — To Edward Bancroft, April i6th . 290
DCXCVIL — From David Hartley, April 23D,

and Franklin's Answer . . 292
DCXCVIIL — To the Count de Vergennes, April

24TH 293

Conversations respecting propositions
for peace.
DCXCIX. — From the Count de Vergennes,

April 25TH 296

Policy of the British ministry to excite
distrust.
DCC. — To Mr. Jn. Ross, April 26th . . 297
Thomas Morris — Arthur Lee and the ac-
counts— Lee "artful and disputatious."
DCCL — To Arthur Lee, May 17TH . . 300
Mode of drawing money from the Ameri-
can banker.
DCCn. — To David Hartley, May 25TH . 302

Exchange of prisoners.
DCCIIL — To John Paul Jones, May 27TH . 303
DCCIV. — To John Paul Jones, June ist . 304
Offer of a command.
DCCV.— To John Paul Jones, June IOTH . 305
Instructions respecting the command of a
frigate.
DCCVL — To David Hartley, June i6th . 306
DCCVn. — To James Hutton, June 23D , . 308
DCCVnL— To AN Engraver in Paris, June

24TH ...... 308

Respecting a print commemorative of
American independence.

Contents of Volume VII xi

PAGE

DCCIX. — Proposed Letter to Lord North

Concerning Prisoners, June . 309
DCCX.— To Charles de Weissenstein, July

1ST 311

Reply to insinuations against the good
faith of France.
DCCXL— To Mr. Grand, July 3D . . .320
British seiz\ires of French ships.
DCCXIL— To David Hartley, July 13TH 321

DCCXin.— To James Lovell, July 22D . . 322
Mr. Deane — Beaumarchais — Inconven-
ience of maintaining several Commission-
ers in Europe — Difficulty of raising loans.
DCCXIV. — To David Hartley, September 30 . 329
DCCXV. — To John Paul Jones, September

6th 33°

DCCXVL — To David Hartley, September 14TH 332
DCCXVIL — Franklin's Notes on the Condition

OF his Health, October 4TH . 333
DCCXVHL— To F. Grand, October 14TH . . 338

Respecting privateers.
DCCXIX. — To David Hartley, October 20TH . 340
DCCXX. — To David Hartley, October 26th . 341

DCCXXL — To Mr. Grand, November 3D . . 345
Spanish complaints of Captain Conyng-
ham.
DCCXXn. — To David Hartley, November 29TH, 346
DCCXXin. — To Dr. Priestley (probably) . 347
Assaults upon his character — Volta's ex-
periment— Governor William Franklin ar-
rested as a royalist — Confidence in the
republic.
DCCXXIV. — B. Franklin's Personal Expense
Account with Congress during
HIS First Two Years' Official
Residence in Paris, 1776-78 . 350
DCCXXV. — The Ephemera: an Emblem of Hu-
man Life. To Madame Brillon,
OF Passy 363

THE

Deformed

PAGE

li Contents of Volume VII
DCCXXVI.— The Whistle. To Madame Brillon, 366
DCCXXVII. — A Petition of the Left Hand. To
Those who have the Superin-
tendency of Education . . 369
DCCXXVIII. — Sketch of an English School. For
THE Consideration of the Trus-
tees of the Philadelphia Acad-
emy
DCCXXIX.— The Handsome and

Leg 379

DCCXXX.— Morals of Chess . . • .381

DCCXXXL— A Tale 387

Of the man with no religion.

DCCXXXIL— An Arabian Tale . . . .387
DCCXXXIIL— Aurora Borealis . . . .389

Conjectural explanations of it.
DCCXXXIV.— To Madame Helvetius . . -395
DCCXXXV. — To Madame Helvetius, at Auteuil, 397
DCCXXXVL— To l'Abbe de la Roche, at Au-
teuil .... . 398
DCCXXXVIL— To l'Abbe de la Roche . . .400
DCCXXXVIIL— To l'Abbe Morellet . . .401
DCCXXXIX.— An Economical Project . . .404

DCCXL.— The Levee 410

DCCXLI.— Proposed New Version of the

Bible 412

DCCXLIL— Apologue 414

DCCXLIIL— From Samuel Cooper to B. Frank-
lin, January 4TH .... 416

The Marquis de Lafayette — Count d'Es-
taing — Proposed invasion of Canada.
DCCXLIV.— To Ralph Izard, January 4TH . 419

Financial Affairs of the United States in
Europe.

Contents of Volume VII xiii

PAGE

DCCXLV. — To THE Committee on Foreign

Affairs, January isth . . 421
Money advanced to Izard and Lee — The
alliance between France and the United
States an obstacle to peace.
DCCXLVI. — From David Hartley, January 23D 423
DCCXLVII. — To David Hartley, January 2Sth . 424
DCCXLVIII. — To Mrs. Margaret Stevenson, Jan-
uary 25TH 425

His mode of life in France.
DCCXLIX. — To Messrs. Lloyd and Others, Jan-
uary 26TH . . . . .428
The Barbary powers.
DCCL. — To David Hartley, February 3D . 430
Answer to his proposition to quit the al-
liance of France.
DCCLI. — To Jonathan Williams, Jr., Febru-
ary 13TH 433

Franklin annoimces his appointment as
Minister — Governor Greene.
DCCLII. — To Arthur Lee, February i8th . 435
DCCLHL — To M. Dumas, February iqth . 436

A loan in Holland — Lafayette.
DCCLIV. — From Arthur Lee, February 2IST . 437
DCCLV. — To David Hartley, February 22D . 438
DCCLVL — To David Hartley, February 22D . 439
DCCLVIL — To Count de Vergennes, February

25TH 440

Some suggestions for the future prosecu-
tion of the war.
DCCLVin. — To Vergennes, February 25TH . 444
DCCLIX. — To Patrick Henry, Governor of

Virginia, February 26th . . 445
On procuring supplies in Exirope for the
army in Virginia.

DCCLX. — To Vergennes, March qth . . 447

Grounds for a new loan.

DCCLXL — Passports for Moravian Vessels,
and for Captain Cook, March
ioth ...... 447

Contents of Volume VII

PA6B

DCCLXII. — To Messrs. Hills, Parkes, Adams,
Degge, Buckley, Elwood, and
Warren, Officers on Board the
"Alliance," March iith . . 450
Application for advances considered —
Frugality tirged upon them.
DCCLXIII. — To Arthur Lee, March 13TH . . 452

Mr. Williams's accounts.
DCCLXIV.— To Messrs. W. Blake, D. Blake, J.
Johnson, P. R. Fendall, J. Whar-
ton, M. Ridley, I. Ross, — Lloyd,
— Ogilvie, and J. D. Schweighau-
ser. Merchants Now at Nantes,

March 13TH 453

Requested to examine Mr. Williams's
accounts.
DCCLXV. — To Honorable Arthur Lee, Esq.,

March 13TH ..... 454
The records and archives of the Commis-
sioners.

SEAL HAh

CORRESPONDENCE

AND

MISCELLANEOUS WRITINGS

VOL. VII. — I.

CORRESPONDENCE

AND

MISCELLANEOUS WRITINGS

DXCVIII

AN ACCOUNT OF NEGOTIATIONS IN LONDON FOR
EFFECTING A RECONCILIATION BETWEEN GREAT
BRITAIN AND THE AMERICAN COLONIES

(Continued.)

The 9th article was so drawn, in compliance with
an idea of Dr. Fothergill's, started at our first meet-
ing, viz., that government here would probably not
be satisfied with the promise of voluntary grants in
time of war from the Assemblies, of which the quan-
tity must be uncertain; that, therefore, it would be
best to proportion them in some way to the shillings
in the pound raised in England; but how such pro-
portion could be ascertained he was at a loss to con-
trive. I was desired to consider it. It has been
said, too, that Parliament was become jealous of the
right claimed and heretofore used by the crown, of
raising money in the colonies without parliamentary
4 The Works of [1775

consent; and, therefore, since we would not pay
parliamentary taxes, future requisitions must be
made with consent of Parliament, and not otherwise.
I wondered that the crown should be willing to give
up that separate right, but had no objection to its
limiting itself, if it thought proper; so I drew the
article accordingly, and contrived to proportion the
aid by the tax of the last year of peace. And since
it was thought that the method I should have liked
best would never be agreed to, viz., a Continental
Congress to be called by the crown, for answering
requisitions and proportioning aids, I chose to leave
room for voluntary additions by the separate Assem-
blies, that the crown might have some motive for
calling them together, and cultivating their good-
will, and they have some satisfaction in showing
their loyalty and their zeal in the common cause, and
an opportunity of manifesting their disapprobation
of a war, if they did not think it a just one. This
article therefore met with no objection from them;
and I had another reason for liking it, viz., that the
view of the proportion to be given in time of war
might make us the more frugal in time of peace.

For the loth article, I urged the injustice of seizing
that fortress (which had been built at an immense
charge by the province, for the defence of their port
against national enemies) , and turning it into a cita-
del for awing the town, restraining their trade,
blocking up their port, and depriving them of their
privileges. That a great deal had been said of their
injustice in destroying the tea ; but here was a much
greater injustice imcompensated, that castle having

1775] Benjamin Franklin 5

cost the province three hundred thousand pounds.
And that such a use made of a fortress they had built
would not only effectually discourage every colony
from ever building another, and thereby leave them
more exposed to foreign enemies, but was a good
reason for their insisting that the crown should never
erect any hereafter in their limits, without the con-
sent of the legislature. The gentlemen had not
much to say against this article, but thought it
would hardly be admitted.

The nth article, it was thought, would be strongly
objected to ; that it would be urged the old colonists
could have nothing to do with the affairs of Canada,
whatever we had with those of the Massachusetts;
that it would be considered as an officious meddling
merely to disturb government; and that some even
of the Massachusetts acts were thought by adminis-
tration to be improvements of that government, viz.,
those altering the appointment of counsellors, the
choice of jurymen, and the forbidding of town meet-
ings. I replied, that we having assisted in the con-
quest of Canada, at a great expense of blood and
treasure, we had some right to be considered in the
settlement of it. That the establishing an arbitrary
government on the back of our settlements might be
dangerous to us all; and that, loving liberty our-
selves, we wished it to be extended among mankind,
and to have no foundation for future slavery laid in
America. That, as to amending the Massachusetts
government, though it might be shown that every
one of these pretended amendments were real mis-
chiefs, yet that charters being compacts between two

6 The Works of [1775

parties, the king and the people, no alteration could
be made in them, even for the better, but by the
consent of both parties. That the Parliament's
claim and exercise of a power to alter our charters,
which had always been deemed inviolable but for for-
feiture, and to alter laws made in pursuance of these
charters, which had received the royal approbation,
and thenceforth deemed fixed and unchangeable, but
by the powers that made them, had rendered all
our constitution uncertain, and set us quite afloat.
That as by claiming a right to tax us ad libitum,
they deprived us of all property; so, by this claim of
altering our laws and charters at will, they deprived
us of all privilege and right whatever, but what we
should hold at their pleasure. That this was a
situation we could not be in, and must risk life
and every thing rather than submit to it. So this
article remained.

The 1 2th article I explained by acquainting the
gentlemen with the former situation of the judges in
most colonies, viz., that they were appointed by the
crown, and paid by the assembhes. That the ap-
pointment being during the pleasure of the crown
the salary had been during the pleasure of the As-
sembly. That, when it has been urged against
the Assembhes that their making judges dependent
on them for their salaries was aiming at an undue
influence over the courts of justice; the Assemblies
usually replied that making them dependent on the
crown for continuance in their places was also retain-
ing an undue influence over those courts, and that
one undue influence was a proper balance for the

1775] Benjamin Franklin 7

other; but that whenever the crown would consent
to acts making the judges during good behavior, the
Assemblies would at the same time grant their sal-
aries to be permanent during their continuance in
office. This the crown has, however, constantly
refused. And this equitable offer is now again here
proposed; the colonies not being able to conceive
why their judges should not be rendered as inde-
pendent as those in England. That, on the contrary,
the crown now claimed to make the judges in the
colonies dependent on its favor for both place and
salary, both to be continued at its pleasure. This the
colonies must oppose as inequitable, as putting both
the weights into one of the scales of justice. If,
therefore, the crown does not choose to commission
the judges during good behavior, with equally per-
manent salaries, the alternative proposed that the
salaries continue to be paid during the pleasure of
the AssembHes as heretofore. The gentlemen al-
lowed this article to be reasonable.

The 13th was objected to, as nothing was gener-
ally thought more reasonable here than that the king
should pay his own governor, in order to render him
independent of the people, who otherwise might aim
at influencing him against his duty by occasionally
withholding his salary. To this I answered that gov-
ernors sent to the colonies were often men of no
estate or principle, who came merely to make for-
tunes, and had no natural regard for the country they
were to govern. That to make them quite indepen-
dent of the people was to make them careless of their
conduct, whether it was beneficial or mischievous to

8 The Works of [1775

the public, and giving a loose to their rapacious and
oppressive dispositions. That the influence sup-
posed could never extend to operate any thing pre-
judicial to the king's service, or the interest of
Britain; since the governor was bound by a set of
particular instructions, which he had given surety
to observe ; and all the laws he assented to were sub-
ject to be repealed by the crown, if found improper.
That the payment of the salaries by the people was
more satisfactory to them, as it was productive of a
good understanding and mutual good offices between
governor and governed, and therefore the innova-
tion lately made in that respect at Boston and New
York had, in my opinion, better be laid aside. So
this article was suffered to remain.

But the 14th was thought totally inadmissible.
The monopoly of the American commerce could
never be given up, and proposing it would only give
offence without answering any good purpose. I was
therefore prevailed on to strike it wholly out.

The 15th was readily agreed to.

The 1 6th it was thought would be of little con-
sequence, if the duties were given to the colony
treasuries.

The 1 7th it was thought could hardly be obtained,
but might be tried.

Thus having gone through the whole, I was desired
to make a fair copy for Dr. Fothergill, who now in-
formed us that having an opportunity of seeing daily
Lord Dartmouth, of whose good disposition he had a
high opinion, he would communicate the paper to
him, as the sentiments of considerate persons, who

1775] Benjamin Franklin 9

wished the welfare of both countries. "Suppose,"
said Mr. Barclay, " I were to show this paper to Lord
Hyde ; would there be any thing amiss in so doing ?
He is a very knowing man; and, though not in the
ministry, properly speaking, he is a good deal at-
tended to by them. I have some acquaintance with
him; we converse freely sometimes; and, perhaps,
if he and I were to talk these articles over, and I
should communicate to him our conversation upon
them, some good might arise out of it. " Dr. Fother-
gill had no objection, and I said I could have none.
I knew Lord Hyde a little, and had an esteem for
him. I had drawn the paper at their request, and
it was now theirs to do with it what they pleased.
Mr. Barclay then proposed that I should send the
fair copy to him, which, after making one for Dr.
Fothergill and one for himself, he would return to
me. Another question then arose, whether I had
any objection to their mentioning that I had been
consulted. I said none that related to myself;
but it was my opinion, if they wished any atten-
tion paid to the propositions, it would be better
not to mention me; the ministry having, as I
conceived, a prejudice against me, and every thing
that came from me. They said on that consider-
ation it might be best not to mention me ; and so it
was concluded. For my own part, I kept this
whole proceeding a profound secret; but I soon
after discovered that it had taken air by some means
or other.

Being much interrupted the day following, I did
not copy and send the paper. The next morning I

lo The Works of [1775

received a note ' from Mr. Barclay, pressing to have
it before twelve o'clock. I accordingly sent it to
him. Three days after I received the following note
from him :

"D. Barclay presents his respects, and acquaints
Dr. Franklin that, being informed a pamphlet, en-
titled 'A Friendly Address,' has been dispersed to
the disadvantage of America (in particular by the
Dean of Norwich), he desires Dr. F. will peruse the
enclosed, just come to hand from America, and, if
he approves of it, republish it, as D. B. wishes some-
thing might be properly spread in Norwich. D. B.
saw to-day a person with whom he had been yester-
day (before he called on Dr. F.), and had the satis-
faction of walking part of the way with him to
another noble person's house, to meet on the busi-
ness, and he told him that he could say that he saw
some light.

" Cheapside, nth instant."

The person so met and accompanied by Mr. Bar-
clay I understood to be Lord Hyde, going either
to Lord Dartmouth's or Lord North's, I know not
which.

In the following week arrived the proceedings of
the Congress, which had been long and anxiously
expected, both by the friends and adversaries of
America.

I Dec. 8th. D. Barclay presents his respects to Dr. Franklin and
requests to receive the paper to-day by 12 o'clock, if he can fiimish it
with conveniency, otherwise as soon after as best suits him.

1775] Benjamin Franklin ii

The petition of Congress to the king was enclosed
to me, and accompanied by the following letter from
their president, addressed to the American agents in
London, as follows :

" To Paul Wentworth, Esquire, Dr. Benjamin Franklin,
William Bollan, Esquire, Dr. Arthur Lee, Thomas
Life, Esquire, Edmund Burke, Esquire, Charles
Garth, Esquire.

"Philadelphia, October 26, 1774.

"Gentlemen: — We give you the strongest proof
of our reliance on your zeal and attachment to the
happiness of America, and the cause of liberty, when
we commit the enclosed papers to your care.

" We desire you will deliver the petition into the
hands of his Majesty, and after it has been presented,
we wish it may be made public through the press,
together with the list of grievances. And as we hope
for great assistance from the spirit, virtue, and jus-
tice of the nation, it is our earnest desire that the
most effectual care be taken, as early as possible, to
furnish the trading cities and manufacturing towns
throughout the United Kingdom with our memorial
to the people of Great Britain.

" We doubt not but that your good sense and dis-
cernment will lead you to avail yourselves of every
assistance that may be derived from the advice and
friendship of all great and good men who may in-
cline to aid the cause of liberty and mankind.

"The gratitude of America, expressed in the en-
closed vote of thanks, we desire may be conveyed

12 The Works of [1775

to the deserving objects of it, in the manner that you
think will be most acceptable to them. '

"It is proposed that another Congress be held on
the loth of May next, at this place, but in the mean-
time we beg the favor of you, gentlemen, to transmit
to the Speakers of the several Assemblies, the earliest
information of the most authentic accounts you can
collect, of all such conduct and designs of ministry
or Parliament, as it may concern America to know.
We are, with unfeigned esteem and regard, gentle-
men, etc. By order of the Congress.

"Henry Middleton, President."

The first impression made by the proceedings of
the American Congress on the people in general, was
greatly in our favor. Administration seemed to be
staggered, were impatient to know whether the Peti-
tion mentioned in the proceedings was come to my
hands, and took a roundabout method of obtaining
that information, by getting a ministerial merchant,
a known intimate of the Solicitor-General, to write
me a letter, importing that he heard I had received
such a petition, that I was to be attended in present-
ing it by the merchants, and begging to know the
time, that he might attend "on so important an
occasion, and give his testimony to so good a work."
Before these proceedings arrived, it had been given

'This vote of thanks was as follows: "October 25, 1774. Re-
solved, That this Congress, in their own names, and in the behalf of all
those whom they represent, do present their most grateful acknow-
ledgments to those trtily noble, honorable, and patriotic advocates of
civil and religious liberty, who have so generously and powerfully,
though tmsuccessfully, espoused and defended the cause of America,
both in and out of Parliament." — Editor.

1775] Benjamin Franklin 13

out that no petition from the Congress could be re-
ceived, as they were an illegal body ; but the Secretary
of State after a day's perusal (during which a council
was held), told us it was a decent and proper peti-
tion, and cheerfully undertook to present it to his
Majesty, who, he afterwards assured us, was pleased
to receive it very graciously, and to promise to lay it,
as soon as they met, before his two Houses of Par-
liament; and we had reason to believe that, at that
time, the petition was intended to be made the
foundation of some change of measures; but that
purpose, if such there were, did not long continue.

About this time, I received a letter from Mr. Bar-
clay, then at Norwich, dated December i8th, ex-
pressing his opinion, that it might be best to postpone
taking any further steps in the affair of procuring a
meeting and petition of the merchants, (on which we
had had several consultations,) till after the holidays,
thereby to give the proceedings of Congress more
time to work upon men's minds; adding: "I Hke-
wise consider that our superiors will have some little
time for reflection, and perhaps may contemplate
on the propriety of the ' Hints ' in their possession.
By a few lines I have received from Lord Hyde, he
intimates his hearty wish that they may be pro-
ductive of what may be practicable and advan-
tageous for the mother country and the colonies."

On the 2 2d, Mr. Barclay was come to town, when
I dined with him, and learnt that Lord Hyde thought
the propositions too hard.

On the 24th, I received the following note from a
considerable merchant in the city, viz. :

14 The Works of [1775

" Mr. William Neate presents his most respectful
compliments to Dr. Franklin, and, as a report pre-
vailed yesterday evening that all the disputes be-
tween Great Britain and the American colonies
were, through his application and influence with
Lord North, amicably settled, conformable to the
wish and desire of the late Congress, W. N. desires
the favor of Dr. Franklin to inform him by a line,
per the bearer, whether there is any credit to be given
to the report.

" St. Mary Hill, 24th December, 1774."

My answer was to this effect ; that I should be very
happy to be able to inform him that the report he
had heard had some truth in it; but I could only
assure him that I knew nothing of the matter. Such
reports, however, were confidently circulated, and
had some effect in recovering the stocks, which had
fallen three or four per cent.

On Christmas-day, visiting Mrs. Howe, she told
me as soon as I came in, that her brother. Lord
Howe, wished to be acquainted with me ; that he was
a very good man, and she was sure we should like
each other. I said I had always heard a good char-
acter of Lord Howe, and should be proud of the
honor of being known to him. " He is but just by,"
said she; "will you give me leave to send for him?"
"By all means, madam, if you think proper." She
rang for a servant, wrote a note, and Lord Howe
came in a few minutes.

After some extremely polite compliments as to the
general motives for his desiring an acquaintance with

1775] Benjamin Franklin 15

me, he said he had a particular one at this time,
which was the alarming situation of our affairs with
America, which no one, he was persuaded, understood
better than myself; that it was the opinion of some
friends of his that no man could do more towards
reconciling our differences than I could, if I would
undertake it; that he was sensible that I had been
very ill-treated by the ministry, but he hoped that
would not be considered by me in the present case;
that he himself, though not in opposition, had much
disapproved of their conduct towards me ; that some
of them, he was sure, were ashamed of it and sorry
it had happened; which he supposed must be suffi-
cient to abate resentment in a great and generous
mind; that, if he were himself in administration, he
should be ready to make me ample satisfaction,
which, he was persuaded, would one day or other be
done; that he was unconnected with the ministry,
except by some personal friendships, wished well,
however, to government, was anxious for the general
welfare of the whole empire, and had a particular
regard for New England, which had shown a very
endearing respect to his family ; that he was merely
an independent member of Parliament, desirous of
doing what good he could, agreeably to his duty
in that station; that he therefore had wished for
an opportunity of obtaining my sentiments on the
means of reconciling our differences, which he saw
must be attended with the most mischievous con-
sequences, if not speedily accommodated; that he
hoped his zeal for the public welfare would, with
me, excuse the impertinence of a mere stranger, who

i6 The Works of [1775

could have otherwise no reason to expect, or right to
request, me to open my mind to him on these topics ;
but he did conceive that, if I would indulge him with
my ideas of the means proper to bring about a recon-
ciliation, it might be of some use; that perhaps I
might not be willing myself to have any direct com-
munication with this ministry on this occasion; that
I might likewise not care to have it known that I had
any indirect communication with them, till I could be
well assured of their good dispositions; that, being
himself upon no ill terms with them, he thought it
not impossible that he might, by conveying my senti-
ments to them and theirs to me, be a means of bring-
ing on a good understanding, without committing
either them or me, if his negotiation should not suc-
ceed ; and that I might rely on his keeping perfectly
secret every thing I should wish to remain so.

Mrs. Howe here offering to withdraw, whether of
herself, or from any sign by him, I know not, I beg-
ged she might stay, as I should have no secret in a
business of this nature that I could not freely confide
to her prudence; which was truth; for I had never
conceived a higher opinion of the discretion and ex-
cellent understanding of any woman on so short an
acquaintance. I added that, though I had never be-
fore the honor of being in his lordship's company,
his manner was such as had already engaged my con-
fidence, and would make me perfectly easy and free
in communicating myself to him.

I begged him, in the first place, to give me credit
for a sincere desire of healing the breach between the
two countries; that I would cheerfully and heartily

1775] Benjamin Franklin 17

do every thing in my small power to accomplish it;
but that I apprehended from the king's speech, and
from the measures talked of, as well as those already
determined on, no intention or disposition of the kind
existed in the present ministry, and therefore no ac-
commodation could be expected till we saw a change.
That, as to what his Lordship mentioned of the per-
sonal injuries done me, those done my country were
so much greater, that I did not think the other, at
this time, worth mentioning; that, besides, it was a
fixed rule with me, not to mix my private affairs
with those of the public; that I could join with my
personal enemy in serving the public, or, when it was
for its interest, with the public in serving that enemy ;
these being my sentiments, his lordship might be
assured that no private considerations of the kind
should prevent my being as useful in the present case
as my small ability would permit.

He appeared satisfied and pleased with these dec-
larations, and gave it me as his sincere opinion, that
some of the ministry were extremely well disposed to
any reasonable accommodation, preserving only the
dignity of government; and he wished me to draw
up in writing some propositions containing the terms
on which I conceived a good understanding might be
obtained and established, and the mode of proceed-
ing to accomplish it; which propositions, as soon as
prepared, we might meet to consider, either at his
house, or at mine, or where I pleased; but, as his
being seen at my house, or me at his, might, he
thought, occasion some speculation, it was concluded
to be best to meet at his sister's, who readily offered

1 8 The Works of [1775

her house for the purpose, and where there was a
good pretense with her family and friends for my be-
ing often seen, as it was known we played together
at chess. I undertook, accordingly, to draw up
something of the kind; and so for that time we
parted, agreeing to meet at the same place again on
the Wednesday following.

I dined about this time by invitation with Gov-
ernor Pownall. There was no company but the
family; and after dinner we had a tete-a-tete. He
had been in the opposition; but was now about
making his peace, in order to come into Parliament
upon ministerial interest, which I did not then know.
He told me, what I had before been told by several
of Lord North's friends, that the American measures
were not the measures of that minister, nor approved
by him ; that, on the contrary, he was well disposed
to promote a reconciliation upon any terms honor-
able to government; that I had been looked upon
as the great fomenter of the opposition in America,
and as a great adversary to any accommodation;
that he. Governor P., had given a different account
of me, and had told his lordship that I was certainly
much misunderstood. From the governor's further
discourse I collected, that he wished to be employed
as an envoy or commissioner to America, to settle
the differences, and to have me with him; but, as I
apprehended there was little likelihood that either
of us would be so employed by government, I did not
give much attention to that part of his discourse.

I should have mentioned in its place (but one can-
not recollect every thing in order), that, declining at

1775] Benjamin Franklin 19

first to draw up the propositions desired by Lord
Howe, I alleged its being unnecessary, since the
Congress in their petition to the king, just then
received and presented through Lord Dartmouth,
had stated their grievances, and pointed out very ex-
plicitly what would restore the ancient harmony ; and
I read a part of the petition to show their good dis-
positions, which, being very pathetically expressed,
seemed to affect both the brother and sister. But
still I was desired to give my ideas of the steps to be
taken, in case some of the propositions in the petition
should not be thought admissible. And this, as I
said before, I undertook to do.

I had promised Lord Chatham to communicate to
him the first important news I should receive from
America. I therefore sent him the proceedings of
the Congress as soon as I received them ; but a whole
week passed after I received the petition, before I
could, as I wished to do, wait upon him with it, in
order to obtain his sentiments on the whole; for my
time was taken up in meetings with the other agents
to consult about presenting the petition, in waiting
three different days with them on Lord Dartmouth,
in consulting upon and writing letters to the Speakers
of Assemblies, and other business, which did not
allow me a day to go to Hayes.

At last, on Monday, the 26th, I got out, and was
there about one o'clock. He received me with an
affectionate kind of respect, that from so great a man
was extremely engaging; but the opinion he ex-
pressed of the Congress was still more so. They had
acted, he said, with so much temper, moderation, and

20 The Works of [1775

wisdom, that he thought it the raost honorable as-
sembly of statesmen since those of the ancient Greeks
and Romans, in the most virtuous times. That
there were not in their whole proceedings above one
or two things he could have wished otherwise; per-
haps but one, and that was their assertion that the
keeping up a standing army in the colonies in time
of peace, without consent of their legislatures, was
against law. He doubted that was not well founded,
and that the law alluded to did not extend to the
colonies. The rest he admired and honored. He
thought the petition decent, manly, and properly ex-
pressed. He inquired much and particularly con-
cerning the state of America, the probability of their
perseverance, the difBculties they must meet with in
adhering for any long time to their resolutions, the
resources they might have to supply the deficiency
of commerce; to all which I gave him answers with
which he seemed well satisfied. He expressed a
great regard and warm affection for that country,
with hearty wishes for their prosperity; and that
government here might soon come to see its mis-
takes, and rectify them; and intimated that pos-
sibly he might, if his health permitted, prepare
something for its consideration, when the Parliament
should meet after the holidays; on which he should
wish to have previously my sentiments.

I mentioned to him the very hazardous state I con-
ceived we were in, by the continuance of the army in
Boston ; that whatever disposition there might be in
the inhabitants to give no just cause of offence to the
troops, or in the general to preserve order among

1775] Benjamin Franklin 21

them, an unpremeditated, unforeseen quarrel might
happen between perhaps a drunken porter and a sol-
dier, that might bring on a riot, tumult, and blood-
shed, and in its consequences produce a breach
impossible to be healed; that the army could not
possibly answer any good purpose there, and might be
infinitely mischievous ; that no accommodation could
properly be proposed and entered into by Ameri-
cans while the bayonet was at their breasts; that to
have an agreement binding, all force should be with-
drawn. His lordship seemed to think these senti-
ments had something in them that was reasonable.

From Hayes I went to Halstead, Mr. Sargent's
place, to dine, intending thence to visit Lord Stan-
hope at Chevening; but hearing that his lordship
and the family were in town, I stayed at Halstead all
night, and the next morning went to Chislehurst to
call upon Lord Camden, it being in my way to town.
I met his lordship and family in two carriages just
without his gate, going on a visit of congratulation
to Lord Chatham and his lady, on the late marriage
of their daughter to Lord Mahon, son of Lord Stan-
hope. The were to be back at dinner; so I agreed
to go in, stay dinner, and spend the evening there,
and not return to town till next morning. We had
that afternoon and evening a great deal of conversa-
tion on American affairs, concerning which he was
very inquisitive, and I gave him the best information
in my power. I was charmed with his generous and
noble sentiments; and had the great pleasure of
hearing his full approbation of the proceedings of
the Congress, the petition, etc., etc., of which, at his

22 The Works of [1775

request, I afterwards sent him a copy. He seemed
anxious that the Americans should continue to act
with the same temper, coolness, and wisdom with
which they had hitherto proceeded in most of their
public assemblies, in which case he did not doubt
they would succeed in establishing their rights, and
obtain a solid and durable agreement with the
mother country; of the necessity and great impor-
tance of which agreement, he seemed to have the
strongest impressions.

I returned to town the next morning, in time to
meet at the hour appointed by Lord Howe. I apol-
ogized for my not being ready with the paper I had
promised, by my having been kept longer than I in-
tended in the country. We had, however, a good
deal of conversation on the subject, and his lord-
ship told me he could now assure me, of a certainty,
that there was a sincere disposition in Lord North
and Lord Dartmouth to accommodate the differences
with America, and to listen favorably to any propo-
sition that might have a probable tendency to an-
swer that salutary purpose. He then asked me
what I thought of sending some person or persons
over, commissioned to inquire into the grievances of
America upon the spot, converse with the leading
people, and endeavor with them to agree upon some
means of composing our differences. I said that
a person of rank and dignity, who had a character of
candor, integrity, and wisdom, might possibly, if em-
ployed in that service, be of great use.

He seemed to be of the same opinion, and that
whoever was employed should go with a hearty

1775] Benjamin Franklin 23

desire of promoting a sincere reconciliation, on the
foundation of mutual interests and mutual good-
will; that he should endeavor, not only to remove
their prejudices against government, but equally the
prejudices of government against them, and bring
on a perfect good understanding, etc. Mrs. Howe
said: "I wish, brother, you were to be sent thither
on such a service ; I should like that much better than
General Howe's going to command the army there."
"I think, madam," said I, "they ought to provide
for General Howe some more honorable employ-
ment." Lord Howe here took out of his pocket a
paper, and offering it to me said, smiUng: "If it is
not an unfair question, may I ask whether you know
any thing of this paper?" Upon looking at it, I
saw it was a copy, in David Barclay's hand, of the
"Hints" before recited; and said that I had seen
it; adding, a little after, that since I perceived his
lordship was acquainted with the transaction, my
concern in which I had understood was to have been
kept a secret, I should make no difficulty in owning
to him that I had been consulted on the subject, and
had drawn up that paper. He said he was rather
sorry to find that the sentiments expressed in it
were mine, as it gave him less hopes of promoting,
by my assistance, the wished-for reconciliation;
since he had reason to think there was no likeli-
hood of the admission of those propositions. He
hoped, however, that I would reconsider the subject,
and form some plan that would be acceptable here.
He expatiated on the infinite service it would be to
the nation, and the great merit in being instru-

24 The Works of [1775

mental in so good a work ; that he should not think
of influencing me by any selfish motive, but cer-
tainly I might with reason expect any reward in the
power of government to bestow.

This to me was what the French vulgarly call spit-
ting in the soup. However, I promised to draw some
sketch of a plan, at his request, though I much
doubted, I said, whether it would be thought prefer-
able to that he had in his hand. But he was wiUing
to hope that it v/ould; and, as he considered my
situation, that I had friends here and constituents
in America to keep well with, that I might possibly
propose something improper to be seen in my hand-
writing; therefore, it would be better to send it to
Mrs. Howe, who would copy it, send the copy to
him to be communicated to the ministry, and return
me the original. This I agreed to, though I did
not apprehend the inconvenience he mentioned. In
general, I liked much his manner, and found myself
disposed to place great confidence in him on occa-
sion; but in this particular the secrecy he proposed
seemed not of much importance.

In a day or two I sent the following paper, en-
closed in a cover, directed to the Honorable Mrs.
Howe.

"It is supposed to be the wish on both sides not
merely to put a stop to the mischief at present
threatening the general welfare, but to cement a
cordial union, and remove, not only every real
grievance, but every cause of jealousy and suspicion.

" With this view, the first thing necessary is to know

1775] Benjamin Franklin 25

what is, by the different parties in the dispute,
thought essentially necessary for the obtaining such
a union.

"The American Congress, in their petition to the
king, have been explicit, declaring that by a repeal
of the oppressive acts therein complained of, the
harmony between Great Britain and the colonies, so
necessary to the happiness of both, and so ardently de-
sired of them, will, with the usual intercourse, be im-
mediately restored.

" If it has been thought reasonable here to expect
that, previous to an alteration of measures, the col-
onies should make some declaration respecting their
future conduct, they have also done that by adding:
That when the causes of their apprehensions are re-
moved, their future conduct will prove them, not un-
worthy of the regard they have been accustomed in
their happier days to enjoy.

" For their sincerity in these declarations, they sol-
emnly call to witness the Searcher of all hearts.

" If Britain can have any reliance on these declara-
tions (and perhaps none to be extorted by force can
be more relied on than these, which are thus freely
made), she may, without hazard to herself, try the
expedient proposed, since, if it fails, she has it in her
power at any time to resume her present measuires.

"It is then proposed: That Britain should show
some confidence in these declarations, by repealing
all the laws, or parts of laws, that are requested to be
repealed in the petition of the Congress to the king;
And that, at the same time, orders should be given
to withdraw the fleet from Boston, and remove all the

26 The Works of [1775

troops to Quebec, or the Floridas, that the colonies
may be left at perfect liberty in their future stipu-
lations.

' ' That this may, for the honor of Britain, appear
not the effect of any apprehension from the measures
entered into and recommended to the people by the
Congress, but from good-will, and a change of dispo-
sition towards the colonies, with a sincere desire
of reconciliation, let some of their other grievances,
which in their petition they have left to the magna-
nimity and justice of the king and Parliament, be at
the same time removed, such as those relating to the
payment of governors' and judges' salaries, and
the instructions for dissolving Assemblies, etc., with
the declarations concerning the statute of Henry the
Eighth.

" And to give the colonies an immediate opportu-
nity of demonstrating the reality of their professions,
let their proposed ensuing Congress be authorized by
government (as was that held at Albany, in 1754),
and a person of weight and dignity of character be
appointed to preside at it on behalf of the crown.

"And then let requisition be made to the Congress,
of such points as government wishes to obtain for its
future security, for aids, for the advantage of general
commerce, for reparation to the India Company,
etc., etc.

"A generous confidence thus placed in the colonies,
will give ground to the friends of government there,
in their endeavors to procure from America every
reasonable concession, or engagement, and every
substantial aid, that can fairly be desired."

1775] Benjamin Franklin 27

On the Saturday evening, I saw Mrs. Howe, who
informed me she had transcribed and sent the paper
to Lord Howe in the country, and she returned me
the original. On the following Tuesday, January 3d,
I received a note from her (enclosing a letter she had
received from Lord Howe the last night), as follows:

"Mrs. Howe's compliments to Dr. Franklin; she
encloses him a letter she received last night, and re-
turns him many thanks for his obliging present,*
which has already given her great entertainment.
If the Doctor has any spare time for chess, she will
be exceedingly glad to see him any morning this
week, and as often as will be agreeable to him, and
rejoices in having so good an excuse for asking the
favor of his company.

" Tuesday."

" Porter's Lodge, January 2, 1775.

" To The Honorable Mrs. Howe, Grafton Street.

" I have received your packet ; and it is with much
concern that I collect, from sentiments of such
authority as those of our worthy friend, that the
desired accommodation threatens to be attended
with much greater difficulty than I had flattered
myself, in the progress of our intercourse, there
would be reason to apprehend.

" I shall forward the propositions as intended, not
desirous of trespassing further on our friend's in-
dulgence ; but retaining sentiments of regard, which
his candid and obliging attention to my troublesome

' His Philosophical Writings. — W. T. F.

28 The Works of [1775

inquiries will render ever permanent to the memory
of your affectionate, etc., Howe.

" I ought to make excuses likewise to you."

His lordship had, in his last conversation with
me, acknowledged a communication between him and
the ministry, to whom he wished to make my senti-
ments known. In this letter from the country he
owns the receipt of them, and mentions his intention
of forwarding them, that is, as I understood it, to the
ministers ; but expresses his apprehensions that such
propositions were not likely to produce any good
effect. Some time after, perhaps a week, I received
a note from Mrs. Howe, desiring to see me. I
waited upon her immediately, when she showed me
a letter from her brother, of which having no copy,
I can only give from the best of my recollection the
purport of it, which I think was this: that he de-
sired to know from their friend, meaning me, through
her means, whether it might not be expected that,
if that friend would engage for their payment of the
tea as a preliminary, relying on a promised redress
of their grievances on future petitions from their
Assembly, they would approve of his making such
engagement; and whether the proposition in the
former paper (the "Hints"), relating to aids, was
still in contemplation of the author. As Mrs. Howe
proposed sending to her brother that evening, I
wrote immediately the following answer, which she
transcribed and forwarded:

" The proposition in the former paper, relating to

1775] Benjamin Franklin 29

aids, is still in contemplation of the author, and, as
he thinks, is included in the last article of the present
paper.

" The people of America, conceiving that Parliament
has no right to tax them, and that therefore all that
has been extorted from them by the operation of the
duty acts, with the assistance of an armed force, pre-
ceding the destruction of the tea, is so much injury,
which ought in order of time to be first repaired,
before a demand on the tea account can be justly
made of them, are not, he thinks, likely to approve of
the measure proposed, and pay in the first place the
value demanded, especially as twenty times as much
injury has since been done them by blocking up their
port; and their castle also, seized before by the
crown, has not been restored, nor any satisfaction
offered them for the same."

At the meeting of Parliament after the holidays,
which was on the 19th of January, 1775, Lord Howe
returned to town, when we had another meeting at
which he lamented that my propositions were not
such as probably could be accepted ; intimated, that
it was thought I had powers or instructions from
the Congress to make concessions on occasion, that
would be more satisfactory. I disclaimed the having
any of any kind, but what related to the presenting
of their petition. We talked over all the particulars
in my paper, which I supported with reasons; and
finally said that, if what I had proposed would not
do, I should be glad to hear what would do ; I wished
to see some propositions from the ministers them-

30 The Works of [1775

selves. His lordship was not, he said, as yet fully
acquainted with their sentiments, but should learn
more in a few days. It was, however, some weeks
before I heard any thing further from him.

In the meanwhile, Mr. Barclay and I were fre-
quently together on the affair of preparing the mer-
chants' petition, which took up so much of his time
that he could not conveniently see Lord Hyde; so
he had no information to give me concerning the
"Hints," and I wondered I heard nothing of them
from Dr. Fothergill. At length, however, but I can-
not recollect about what time, the Doctor called on
me, and told me he had communicated them, and
with them had verbally given my arguments in sup-
port of them, to Lord Darmouth, who, after con-
sideration, had told him some of them appeared
reasonable, but others were inadmissible or imprac-
ticable. That having occasion to see frequently
the Speaker,' he had also communicated them to
him, as he found him very anxious for a reconcilia-
tion. That the Speaker had said it would be very
humiliating to Britain to be obliged to submit to
such terms; but the Doctor told him she had been
unjust, and ought to bear the consequences, and
alter her conduct ; that the pill might be bitter, but
it would be salutary, and must be swallowed. That
these were the sentiments of impartial men, after
thorough consideration and full information of all
circumstances, and that sooner or later these or
similar measures must be followed, or the empire
would be divided and ruined. The Doctor, on the

I Sir Fletcher Norton.

1775] Benjamin Franklin 31

whole, hoped some good would be effected by our
endeavors.

On the 19th of January, I received a card from
Lord Stanhope, acquainting me that Lord Chatham,
having a motion to make on the morrow in the House
of Lords concerning America, greatly desired that I
might be in the House, into which Lord Stanhope
would endeavor to procure me admittance. At this
time it was a rule of the House that no person could
introduce more than one friend. The next morning
his lordship let me know by another card that, if I
attended at two o'clock in the lobby, Lord Chatham
would be there about that time, and would himiself
introduce me. I attended, and met him there ac-
cordingly. On my mentioning to him what Lord
Stanhope had written to me, he said: "Certainly;
and I shall do it with the more pleasure, as I am sure
your being present at this day's debate will be of
more service to America than mine ' ' ; and so taking
me by the arm was leading me along the passage to
the door that enters near the throne, when one of the
door-keepers followed, and acquainted him that, by
the order, none were to be carried in at that door but
the eldest sons or brothers of peers; on which he
limped back with me to the door near the bar, where
were standing a number of gentlemen waiting for
the peers who were to introduce them, and some
peers waiting for friends they expected to introduce ;
among whom he delivered me to the door-keepers,
saying aloud: "This is Dr. Franklin, whom I would
have admitted into the House"; when they readily
opened the door for me accordingly.

32 The Works of [177s

As it had not been publicly known that there was
any communication between his lordship and me, this
I found occasioned some speculation. His appear-
ance in the House, I observed, caused a kind of
bustle among the officers, who were hurried in send-
ing messengers for members, I suppose those in
connection with the ministry, something of impor-
tance being expected when that great man appears;
it being but seldom that his infirmities permit his
attendance. I had great satisfaction in hearing
his motion and the debate upon it, which I shall not
attempt to give here an account of, as you may find
a better in the papers of the time. It was his mo-
tion for withdrawing the troops from Boston, as the
first step towards an accommodation.

The day following, I received a note from Lord
Stanhope expressing that, "at the desire of Lord
Chatham, was sent me enclosed the motion he made
in the House of Lords, that I might be possessed of
it in the most authentic manner, by the communica-
tion of the individual paper which was read to the
House by the mover himself." I sent copies of this
motion to America, and was the more pleased with
it, as I conceived it had partly taken its rise from a
hint I had given his lordship in a former conversa-
tion. It follows in these words.

"lord Chatham's motion, January 20, 1775

" That an humble address be presented to his Maj-
esty, most humbly to advise and beseech his Majesty
that, in order to open the way towards a happy
settlement of the dangerous troubles in America,

1775] Benjamin Franklin 33

by beginning to allay ferments and soften animosities
there, and above all, for preventing in the meantime
any sudden and fatal catastrophe at Boston, now
suffering under the daily irritation of an army before
their eyes, posted in their town, it may graciously
please his Majesty that immediate orders may be
despatched to General Gage for removing his
Majesty's forces from the town of Boston, as soon
as the rigor of the season and other circumstances,
indispensable to the safety and accommodation of
the said troops, may render the same practicable."
I was quite charmed with Lord Chatham's speech
in support of his motion. He impressed me with
the highest idea of him, as a great and most able
statesman.^ Lord Camden, another wonderfully
good speaker and close reasoner, joined him in the
same argument, as did several other lords, who
spoke exceedingly well, but all availed no more than
the whistling of the winds. The motion was rejected.
Sixteen Scotch peers, and twenty-four bishops, with
all the lords in possession or expectation of places,
when they vote together tmanimously, as they gen-
erally do for ministerial measures, make a dead ma-
jority, that renders all debating ridiculous in itself,
since it can answer no end. Full of the high esteem
I had imbibed for Lord Chatham, I wrote back to
Lord Stanhope the following note, viz. :

^ It was reported at the time that his lordship had concluded his
speech with the following remarkable words: "If the ministers thtis
persevere in misadvising and misleading the king, I will not say that
they can alienate the affections of his subjects from his crown, but I
will affirm that they will make the crown not worth his wearing. I will
not say that the king is betrayed, but I will pronounce that the kin-dcm

ts undone." — W. T. F

VOL. VII.

34 The Works of [1775

" Dr. Franklin presents his best respects to Lord
Stanhope, with many thanks to his lordship and
Lord Chatham for the communication of so authentic
a copy of the motion. Dr. F. is filled with admira-
tion of that truly great man. He has seen, in the
course of life, sometimes eloquence without wisdom,
and often wisdom without eloquence ; in the present
instance he sees both united, and both, as he thinks,
in the highest degree possible.

" Craven Street, January 23, 1775."

As in the course of the debate some lords in the
administration had observed, that it was common
and easy to censure their measures, but those who
did so proposed nothing better. Lord Chatham
mentioned that he should not be one of those idle
censurers; that he had thought long and closely
upon the subject, and proposed soon to lay before
their lordships the result of his meditation, in a plan
for healing our differences, and restoring peace to the
empire, to which his present motion was prepara-
tory. I much desired to know what his plan was,
and intended waiting on him to see if he would
communicate it to me, but he went the next morning
to Hayes, and I was so much taken up with daily
business and company that I could not easily get
out to him. A few days after, however. Lord Mahon
called on me, and told me Lord Chatham was very
desirous of seeing me, when I promised to be with
him the Friday following, several engagements
preventing my going sooner.

On Friday the 27th I took a post-chaise about

1775] Benjamin Franklin 35

nine o'clock and got to Hayes about eleven; but, my
attention being engaged in reading a new pamphlet,
the post-boy drove me a mile or two beyond the gate.
His lordship, being out on an airing in his chariot,
had met me before I reached Hayes, unobserved by
me, turned and followed me, and not finding me
there, concluded, as he had seen me reading, that I
had passed by mistake, and sent a servant after me.
He expressed great pleasure at my coming, and
acquainted me, in a long conversation, with the out-
lines of his plan, parts of which he read to me. He
said he had communicated it only to Lord Camden,
whose advice he much relied on, particularly in the
law part; and that he would, as soon as he could, get
it transcribed, put it into my hands for my opinion
and advice, but should show it to no other person be-
fore he presented it to the House ; and he requested
me to make no mention of it, otherwise parts might
be misunderstood and blown upon beforehand, and
others perhaps adopted and produced by ministers as
their own. I promised the closest secrecy, and kept
my word, not even mentioning to any one that I had
seen him. I dined with him, his family only present,
and returned to town in the evening.

On the Sunday following, being the 29th, his lord-
ship came to town, and called upon me in Craven
Street. He brought with him his plan, transcribed
in the form of an act of Parliament, which he put in-
to my hands, requesting me to consider it carefully,
and communicate to him such remarks upon it as
should occur to me. His reason for desiring to give
me that trouble was, as he was pleased to say, that

36 The Works of [1775

he knew no man so thoroughly acquainted with the
subject, or so capable of giving advice upon it ; that
he thought the errors of ministers in American affairs
had been often owing to their not obtaining the best
information; that, therefore, though he had con-
sidered the business thoroughly in all its parts, he
was not confident of his own judgment, but that he
came to set it right by mine, as men set their watches
by a regulator. He had not determined when he
should produce it in the House of Lords; but in the
course of our conversation, considering the precari-
ous situation of his health, and that if presenting it
was delayed some intelligence might arrive which
would make it seem less seasonable, or in all parts not
so proper, or the ministry might engage in different
measures, and then say: " If you had produced your
plan sooner, we might have attended to it," he con-
cluded to offer it the Wednesday following; and
therefore wished to see me about it the preceding
Tuesday, when he would again call upon me, unless
I could conveniently come to Hayes. I chose the
latter, in respect to his lordship, and because there
was less likelihood of interruptions; and I promised
to be with him early, that we might have more time.
He stayed with me near two hours, his equipage
waiting at the door; and being there while people
were coming from church, it was much taken notice
of, and talked of, as at that time was every little
circumstance that men thought might possibly any
way affect American affairs. Such a visit from so
great a man, on so important a business, flattered not
a little my vanity; and the honor of it gave me the

1775] Benjamin Franklin 37

more pleasure, as it happened on the very day twelve
months that the ministry had taken so much pains to
disgrace me before the Privy Council.'

I applied myself immediately to the reading and
considering the plan, of which, when it was after-
wards published, I sent you a copy, and therefore
need not insert it here. I put down upon paper, as
I went along, some short memorandums for my
future discourse with him upon it, which follow,
that you may, if you please, compare them with the
plan; and if you do so, you will see their drift and
purpose, which otherwise would take me much
writing to explain.

•' NOTES FOR DISCOURSE WITH LORD CHATHAM ON HIS
PLAN

" Tuesday, 31 January, 1775.

" Voluntary grants and forced taxes not to be ex-
pected of the same people at the same time.

" Permanent revenue will be objected to. Would
not a temporary agreement be best, suppose for one
hundred years ?

" Does the whole of the rights claimed in the Peti-
tion of Rights relate to England only ?

"The American Naturalization Act gives all the
rights of natural-born subjects to foreigners residing
there seven years. Can it be supposed, that the
natives there have them not ?

" If the king should raise armies in America, would
Britain like their being brought hither? as the king
might bring them when he pleased.

» In the affair of Hutchinson's letters. — Editor.

38 The Works of [1775

" An act of Parliament requires the colonies to fur-
nish sundry articles of provision and accommodation
to troops quartered among them ; this may be made
very burdensome to colonies that are out of favor.

" If a permanent revenue, why not the same priv-
ileges in trade with Scotland?

" Should not the lands, conquered by Britain and
the colonies in conjunction, be given them (reserving
a quit-rent), whence they might form funds to enable
them to pay ?

" Instructions about agents to be withdrawn.

" Grants to be for three years, at the end of which
a new Congress ; and so from three to three years.

" Congress to have the general defence of frontiers,
making and regulating new settlements.

" Protection mutual.

" We go into all your wars.

" Our settlements cost you nothing.

" Take the plan of union.

"'Defence, extension, and prosperity of.' The
late Canada Act prevents their extension, and may
check their prosperity.

" Laws should be secure as well as charters.

" Perhaps if the legislative power of Parliament is
owned in the colonies, they may make a law to forbid
the meeting of any Congress," etc.

I was at Hayes early on Tuesday, agreeable to my
promise, when we entered into consideration of the
plan; but, though I stayed near four hours, his
lordship, in the manner of, I think, all eloquent per-
sons, was so full and diffuse in supporting every par-

1775] Benjamin Franklin 39

ticular I questioned, that there was not time to go
through half my memorandums. He is not easily
interrupted, and I had such pleasure in hearing
him that I found little incUnation to interrupt him.
Therefore, considering that neither of us had much
expectation that the plan would be adopted entirely
as it stood; that, in the course of its consideration, if
it should be received, proper alterations might be in-
troduced; that, before it would be settled, America
should have opportunity to make her objections and
propositions of amendment ; that, to have it received
at all here, it must seem to comply a little with some
of the prevailing prejudices of the legislature; that,
if it was not so perfect as might be wished, it would
at least serve as a basis for treaty, and in the mean-
time prevent mischiefs; and that, as his lordship had
determined to offer it the next day, there was not
time to make changes and another fair copy, I there-
fore ceased my querying, and, though afterwards
many people were pleased to do me the honor of
supposing I had a considerable share in composing
it, I assure you that the addition of a single word
only was made at my instance, viz., "constitutions''
after "charters"; for my filling up, at his request, a
blank with the titles of acts proper to be repealed,
which I took from the proceedings of the Congress,
was no more than might have been done by any
copying clerk.

On Wednesday, Lord Stanhope, at Lord Chat-
ham's request, called upon me, and carried me down
to the House of Lords, which was soon very full.
Lord Chatham, in a most excellent speech, intro-

40 The Works of [1775

duced, explained, and supported his plan. When he
sat down, Lord Dartmouth rose, and very properly-
said it contained matter of such weight and magni-
tude as to require much consideration; and he
therefore hoped the noble earl did not expect their
lordships to decide upon it by an immediate vote, but
would be willing it should lie upon the table for con-
sideration. Lord Chatham answered readily that he
expected nothing more.

But Lord Sandwich rose, and in a petulant, vehe-
ment speech, opposed its being received at all, and
gave his opinion that it ought to be immediately
rejected, with the contempt it deserved; that he
could never believe it to be the production of any
British peer; that it appeared to him rather the
work of some American ; and turning his face towards
me, who was leaning on the bar, said he fancied he
had in his eye the person who drew it up, one of the
bitterest and most mischievous enemies this country
had ever known. This drew the eyes of many lords
upon me, but as I had no inducement to take it to
myself, I kept my countenance as immovable as if
my features had been made of wood. Then several
other lords of the administration gave their senti-
ments also for rejecting it, of which opinion also was
strongly the wise Lord Hillsborough. But the Dukes
of Richmond and Manchester, Lord Shelbume, Lord
Camden, Lord Temple, Lord Lyttleton, and others,
were for receiving it, some through approbation, and
others for the character and dignity of the House.
One lord mentioning with applause the candid pro-
posal of one of the ministers. Lord Dartmouth, his

1775] Benjamin Franklin 4^

lordship rose again and said that, having since
heard the opinions of so many lords against receiv-
ing it, to lie upon the table for consideration, he had
altered his mind, could not accept the praise offered
him for a candor of which he was now ashamed, and
should therefore give his voice for rejecting the plan
immediately.

I am the more particular in this, as it is a trait of
that nobleman's character, who from his office is sup-
posed to have so great a share in American affairs,
but who has in reality no will or judgment of his
own, being, with disposition for the best measures,
easily prevailed with to join in the worr;t.

Lord Chatham, in his reply to Lord Sandwich, took
notice of his liberal insinuation that the plan was not
the person's who proposed it; declared that it was
entirely his own; a declaration he thought himself
the more obliged to make, as many of their lordships
appeared to have so mean an opinion of it; for if it
was so weak or so bad a thing, it was proper in him
to take care that no other person should unjustly
share in the censure it deserved. That it had been
heretofore reckoned his vice, not to be apt to take
advice ; but he made no scruple to declare that if he
were the first minister of this country, and had the
care of settling this momentous business, he should
not be ashamed of publicly calling to his assistance a
person so perfectly acquainted with the whole of
American affairs as the gentleman alluded to, and so
injuriously reflected on; one, he was pleased to say,
whom all Europe held in high estimation for his
knowledge and wisdom, and ranked with our Boyles

42 The Works of [177s

and Newtons ; who was an honor, not to the English
nation only, but to human nature ! I foimd it harder
to stand this extravagant compliment than the pre-
ceding equally extravagant abuse ; but kept as well
as I could an unconcerned countenance, as not con-
ceiving it to relate to me.

To hear so many of these hereditary legislators de-
claiming so vehemently against, not the adopting
merely, but even the consideration of, a proposal so
important in its nature, offered by a person of so
weighty a character, one of the first statesmen of the
age, who had taken up this country when in the low-
est despondency, and conducted it to victory and
glory through a war with two of the mightiest king-
doms in Europe; to hear them censuring his plan,
not only for their own misunderstandings of what
was in it, but for their imaginations of what was not
in it, which they would not give themselves an op-
portunity of rectifying by a second reading; to per-
ceive the total ignorance of the subject in some, the
prejudice and passion of others, and the wilful per-
version of plain truth in several of the ministers ; and,
upon the whole, to see it so ignominiously rejected
by so great a majority, and so hastily too, in breach
of all decency, and prudent regard to the character
and dignity of their body, as a third part of the na-
tional legislature, gave me an exceeding mean opinion
of their abilities, and made their claim of sovereign-
ty over three millions of virtuous, sensible people in
America seem the greatest of absurdities, since they
appeared to have scarce discretion enough to govern
a herd of swine. Hereditary legislators! thought I.

1775] Benjamin Franklin 43

There would be more propriety, because less hazard
of mischief, in having (as in some university of
Germany) hereditary professors of mathematics! But
this was a hasty reflection; for the elected House of
Commons is no better, nor ever will it be while the
electors receive money for their votes, and pay
money wherewith ministers may bribe their repre-
sentatives when chosen.'

' Franklin did not hesitate to speak of the House of Commons, even
in letters of an official nature, as corrupt, but he never mentions any
specific cases of corruption. As corruption is not apt to have wit-
nesses who can afford to betray it, it is charged in many cases on sus-
picion, and oftentimes unjustly. To show that Franklin did not make
such a charge merely upon rumors and suspicions, the attention of
the reader is invited to the following extract from Wraxall's Memoirs
of His Own Time, which will be fovmd to justify much stronger lan-
guage than Franklin ever used upon the subject:

"While I am engaged on the subject of the House of Commons, and
of the influence or corruption by which it has been always managed,
particularly during the last, and the present reign, I shall relate some
particulars, which cannot perhaps be introduced with more propriety
than in this place. We may see in the Memoirs of Prince Eugene of
Savoy what influence he attributes to the ' Presents of Champagne and
Burgundy' made by Marshal Tallard, then a prisoner of war in Eng-
land, to 'Right Honorable Members of Parliament.' Nay, the Prince
asserts positively that in the same year, 1 7 1 1 , when he came over in
person to London, with the avowed object of retaining, if possible,
Queen Anne and her Ministers in the Grand Alliance against France,
he had recourse, himself, to corruption. ' Je fis des presents,' says he,
*car on peut acheter beaucoup en Angleterre.' If such constituted the
ordinary practice under the last Princess of the Stuart Line, at a time
that Parliaments were not septennial but only triennial, we may be
quite assured that they did not become more virtuous after the acces-
sion of the reigning family, when the House of Commons was elected
for seven years.

" Proofs of the venaHty practised by Sir Robert Walpole, during the
whole course of his long administration, it seems unnecessary to pro-
duce, as that Minister did not disclaim or resent the imputation. Nor
did his political adversaries disdain, whatever professions of public
virtue they might make, to have recourse to the same unworthy ex-
pedients in order to effect his removal. We have the authority of a

44 The Works of [1775

After this proceeding I expected to hear no more
of any negotiation for settling our difference ami-
cably; yet, in a day or two, I had a note from Mr.
Barclay, requesting a meeting at Doctor Fother-
gill's, the 4th of February, in the evening. I at-
tended accordingly, and was surprised by being told
that a very good disposition appeared in adminis-
tration; that the " Hints" had been considered and
several of them thought reasonable, and that others

member of their own body for the fact. 'Don Carlos' (Frederick,
Prince of Wales), says Mr. Glover, in his Memoirs, recently pubUshed,
' told me that it cost him twelve thousand poionds in corruption, par-
ticularly among the Tories, to carry the Westminster and Chippenham
elections in 1742, and other points, which compelled Lord Orford, at
that time Sir Robert Walpole, to quit the House of Commons.' It is
difficult to adduce more satisfactory and tmimpeachable proof of any
fact, as Glover was a man of strict veracity. Neither was Mr. Pelham,
who, after a short interval, succeeded Sir Robert, and who held his
situation near eleven years, though he may be justly esteemed one of
the most upright statesmen who presided in the cotmcils of George the
Second, less liable to the accusation of corrupting Parliament than his
predecessor.

"A friend of mine, a man of rank and high character, whom I do not
name, because, being still alive, I consider myself not at liberty to
divulge it, but whose name would at once stamp the veracity and au-
thenticity of whatever he relates, has frequently assured me that
about the year 1767 he was personally acquainted with Roberts, who
had been Secretary of the Treasury imder Mr. Pelham, but who was
then old, infirm, and near his end. He Ues bxiried in Westminster
Abbey, in Poets' Comer, where his epitaph describes him as ' the most
faithful Secretary of the Right Honorable Henry Pelham.' This gen-
tleman, conversing with Roberts upon the events of those times when
he held a place under Administration, and particularly on the manner
in which the House of Commons was then managed, Roberts avowed
without reserve, that while he remained at the treasury, there were a
number of members who regularly received from him their payment or
stipend, at the end of every session, in bank notes. The sums, which
varied according to the merits, ability, and attendance of the respective
individuals, amoimted usually from five hundred pounds to eight hun-
dred poiinds, per annum. 'This largess I distributed,' added Roberts,

1775] Benjamin Franklin 45

might be admitted with small amendments. The
good Doctor, with his usual philanthropy, expati-
ated on the miseries of war; that even a bad peace
was preferable to the most successful war; that
America was growing in strength; and, whatever
she might be obliged to submit to at present, she
would in a few years be in a condition to make her
own terms.

Mr. Barclay hinted how much it was in my power

'in the Cotirt of Requests, on the day of the prorogation of Parliament.
I took m}^ stand there, and as the gentlemen passed me, in going to or
returning from the House, I conveyed the money in a squeeze of the
hand. Whatever person received the ministerial bounty in the manner
thus related, I entered his name in a book, which was preserved in the
deepest secrecy, it being never inspected by any one, except the King
and Mr. Pelham. On the decease of that Minister in 1754, his brother
the Duke of Newcastle, Mr. Fox, afterwards Lord Holland, and others
of the Cabinet who succeeded to power, anxious to obtain an accurate
knowledge of the private state of the House of Commons, and par-
ticularly to ascertain the names of all the individuals who received
money during Mr. Pelham's life, applied to me for information. They
further demanded of me to surrender the book, in which, as they knew,
I was accustomed to enter the above particulars. Conceiving a com-
pliance to be dishonorable, I peremptorily refused to deliver it up,
except by the King's express command, and to his Majesty in person.
In consequence of my refusal, they acquainted the King of the cir-
cumstance, who sent for me to St. James', where I was introduced
into the Closet, more than one of the above-mentioned Ministers being
present. George the Second ordered me to return him the book in
question, with which injtmction I immediately complied. At the
same time, taking the poker in his hand, he put it into the fire, made
it red hot, and then, while we stood rotmd him, he thrust the book into
the flames, where it was immediately reduced to ashes. He con-
sidered it, in fact, as too sacred and confidential a register, to be thus
transferred over to the new Ministers, and as having become extinct
with the administration of Mr. Pelham.'

"It is unquestionable that the Duke of Newcastle, though he failed
in getting possession of his brother's secret information, in consequence
of Roberts's firmness, yet pursued the same mode of management on
becoming himself First Lord of the Treasiiry. Under Lord Bute's

4^ The Works of [1775

to promote an agreement, how much it would be to
my honor to effect it, and that I might expect, not
only restoration of my old place, but almost any
other I could wish for, etc. I need not tell you, who
know me so well, how improper and disgusting this
language was to me. The Doctor's was more suit-
able. Him I answered that we did not wish for war,
and desired nothing but what was reasonable and
necessary for our security and well-being. To Mr.

government, when, from a variety of causes, a violent opposition in
Parliament arose, which required the whole power of Ministry to stem,
similar practices were carried to a greater length. John Ross Mackaj^
who had been Private Secretary to the Earl of Bute, and afterwards,
during seventeen years, was Treasurer of the Ordnance, a man with
whom I was personally acquainted, frequently avowed the fact. He
hved to a very advanced age, sat in several Pariiaments, and only died,
I believe, in 1796. A gentleman of high professional rank and of vm-
impeached veracity told me that, dining at the late Earl of Bes-
borough's in Cavendish Square, in the year 1790, where only four per-
sons were present, including himself, Ross Mackay, who was one of the
number, gave them the most ample information upon this subject.
Lord Besborough having called, after dinner, for a bottle of excellent
champagne, of which wine Mackay was fond, and the conversation
accidentally turning on the means of governing the House of Commons,
Mackay said that 'Money formed, after all, the only effectual and
certain method.' 'The peace of 1763,' continued he, 'was carried
through and approved by a pecuniary distribution. Nothing else
could have sxirmoimted the difificulty. I was, myself, the channel
through which the money passed. With my own hand I secured
above one hundred and twenty votes on that vital question to Min-
isters. Eighty thousand pounds were set apart for the purpose.
Forty members of the House of Commons received from me a thousand
pounds each. To eighty others I paid five hundred pounds apiece.'
Mackay afterwards confirmed more than once this fact to the gentle-
man above mentioned, who related it to me. He added that Lord Bes-
borough appeared, himself, so sensible of the imprudence, as well as
impropriety, of the avowal made by Mackay at his table, that His
Lordship sent to him and to the fourth person who had been present on
the occasion, next morning, to entreat of them on no accotmt to divulge
it during Mackay's life.

1775] Benjamin Franklin 47

Barclay I replied that the ministry, I was sure, would
rather give me a place in a cart to Tyburn than any
other place whatever; and to both that I sincerely
wished to be serviceable ; that I needed no other in-
ducement than to be shown how I might be so, but
saw they imagined more to be in my power than
really was. I was then told again that conferences
had been held upon the "Hints," and the paper

"Wilkes was, however, perfectly well instructed on the subject, and
made no secret of his information, even at the time when the Treaty of
Fontainebleau was a recent transaction. In his memorable letter ad-
dressed from 'Paris, 22d October, 1764,' to the Electors of Aylesbury,
he says: 'I will not compliment the present profligate majority in the
House of Commons, so far as to say they were so well informed that
they knew the exact truth of every assertion in the North Briton, No. 45.
One particular, however, came within their knowledge — the means by
which it is hinted that the entire approbation of Parliament, even of the
Preliminary Articles of the late inglorious Peace, was obtained, and
the previous step to the obtaining that entire approbation — the large
debt contracted on the Civil List. They knew this assertion was ex-
tremely true, and I am as ready to own that it was extremely scandal-
ous.'' It is impossible to convey a charge of such a nature in less
equivocal or ambiguous language.

"Relative to the three successive administrations of George Gren-
ville, the Marquis of Rockingham, and the Duke of Grafton, which
comprised the period of time between April, 1763, and January, 1770,
I can state nothing from my own personal knowledge. Bradshaw
conducted that department under the Duke of Grafton. The same
system certainly continued during the period of the American war,
when Robinson, and under him, Brummell, were its agents. I incline
nevertheless to doubt whether, towards the termination of Lord
North's ministry, these practices subsisted in all their force; by which
I mean to say that I question whether any individual member of the
House of Commons was paid for his vote and support in bank notes,
as had been done under Walpole, Pelham, and most, if not all their
successors down to that time. More refinement had insensibly been
introduced into the distribution of gratifications, which were conveyed
in oblique shapes, such as lottery tickets, scrip, jobs, contracts, and
other beneficial forms, by which the majority was kept together in
defiance of a most unfortunate, if not an ill-conducted, war." — Editor.

48 The Works of [1775

being produced, was read, that I might hear the ob-
servations that had been made upon them separately,
which were as follows :

1 . The first article was approved.

2. The second agreed to, so far as related to the
repeal of the Tea Act, but repayment of the duties
that had been collected was refused.

3. The third not approved, as it implied a defi-
ciency of power in the Parliament that made those
acts.

4. The fourth approved.

5. The fifth agreed to, but with a reserve that no
change prejudicial to Britain was to be expected.

6. The sixth agreed to, so far as related to the
appropriation of the duties, but the appointment of
the officers and their salaries to remain as at present.

7. The seventh, relating to aids in time of peace,
agreed to.

8. The eighth, relating to the troops, was inad-
missible.

9. The ninth could be agreed to, with this differ-
ence, that no proportion should be observed with
regard to preceding taxes, but each colony should
give at pleasure.

10. The tenth agreed to, as to the restitution of
Castle William, but the restriction on the crown in
building fortresses refused.

11. The eleventh refused absolutely, except as to
the Boston Port Bill, which would be repealed ; and
the Quebec Act might be so far amended as to re-
duce that province to its ancient limits. The other
Massachusetts acts, being real amendments of their

1775] Benjamin Franklin 49

constitution, must for that reason be continued, as
well as to be a standing example of the power of
Parliament.

12. The twelfth agreed to, that the judges should
be appointed during good behavior, on the Assem-
blies providing permanent salaries, such as the crown
should approve of.

13. The thirteenth agreed to, provided the Assem-
blies make provision as in the preceding article.

15. The fifteenth agreed to.

16. The sixteenth agreed to, supposing the duties
paid to the colony treasuries.

17. The seventeenth inadmissible.

We had not at this time a great deal of conversa-
tion upon these points, for I shortened it by observ-
ing that, while the Parliament claimed and exercised
a power of altering our constitutions at pleasure,
there could be no agreement; for we were rendered
unsafe in every privilege we had a right to, and were
secure in nothing. And, it being hinted how neces-
sary an agreement was for America, since it was so
easy for Britain to bum all our seaport towns, I
grew warm, said that the chief part of my little prop-
erty consisted of houses in those towns; that they
might make bonfires of them whenever they pleased ;
that the fear of losing them would never alter my
resolution to resist to the last that claim of Parlia-
ment, and that it behoved this country to take care
what mischief it did us, for that sooner or later it
would certainly be obliged to make good all damages
with interest. The Doctor smiled, as I thought,
with some approbation of my discourse, passionate

50 The Works of [1775

as it was, and said he would certainly repeat it to-
morrow to Lord Dartmouth.

In the discourse concerning the " Hints," Mr. Bar-
clay happened to mention that, going to Lord Hyde's,
he found Lord Howe with him ; and that Lord Hyde
had said to him: "You may speak any thing before
Lord Howe that you have to say to me, for he is a
friend in whom I confide"; upon which he accord-
ingly had spoken with the same freedom as usual.
By this I collected how Lord Howe came by the
paper of " Hints," which he had shown me. And, it
being mentioned as a measure thought of, to send
over a commissioner with powers to inquire into
grievances, and give redress on certain conditions,
but that it was difficult to find a proper person, I
said: "Why not Lord Hyde? He is a man of pru-
dence and temper, a person of dignity, and, I should
think, very suitable for such an employment; or, if
he would not go, there is the other person you just
mentioned. Lord Howe, who would, in my opinion,
do excellently well." This passed as mere conversa-
tion, and we parted.

Lord Chatham's rejected plan being printed, for
the public judgment, I received six copies from Lord
Mahon, his son-in-law, which I sent to different per-
sons in America.

A week and more passed in which I heard nothing
further of any negotiation, and my time was much
taken up among the members of Parliament, when
Mr. Barclay sent me a note to say that he was indis-
posed, but desirous of seeing me, and should be glad
if I would call on him. I waited upon him the next

1775] Benjamin Franklin 51

morning, when he told me that he had seen Lord
Hyde, and had some further discourse with him on
the Articles; that he thought himself now fully
possessed of what would do in this business ; that he
therefore wished another meeting with me and Dr.
Fothergill, when he would endeavor to bring prepared
a draft conformable chiefly to what had been pro-
posed and conceded on both sides, with some propo-
sitions of his own. I readily agreed to the meeting,
which was to be on Thursday evening, February i6th.
We met accordingly, when Mr. Barclay produced
the following paper, viz. :

** A PLAN WHICH, IT IS BELIEVED, WOULD PRODUCE A
PERMANENT UNION BETWEEN GREAT BRITAIN AND
HER COLONIES

" I. The tea destroyed to be paid for; and, in order
that no time may be lost to begin the desirable work
of conciliation, it is proposed that the agent or agents,
in a petition to the king, should engage that the tea
destroyed shall be paid for; and, in consequence of
that engagement, a commissioner to have authority,
by a clause in an act of Parliament, to open the port
(by a suspension of the Boston Port Act) when that
engagement shall be complied with.

"2. The Tea-duty Act to be repealed, as well for
the advantage of Great Britain as the colonies.

"3. Castle William to be restored to the province
of Massachusetts Bay, as formerly, before it was
delivered up by Governor Hutchinson.

"4. As it is believed that the commencement of
conciliatory measures will, in a considerable degree,

52 The Works of [1775

quiet the minds of the subjects in America, it is
proposed that the inhabitants of the province of
Massachusetts Bay should petition the king, and
state their objections to the said act.' And it is to
be understood that the said act shall be repealed.
Interim., the commissioner to have power to suspend
the act, in order to enable the inhabitants to petition.

"5. The several provinces who may think them-
selves aggrieved by the Quebec Bill, to petition in
their legislative capacities ; and it is to be understood
that so far of the act, as extends the limits of Quebec
beyond its ancient bounds, is to be repealed.

"6. The act of Henry the Eighth to be formally
disclaimed by Parliament.

"7. In time of peace the Americans to raise, within
their respective provinces, by acts of their own legis-
latures, a certain sum or sums, such as may he thought
necessary for a peace establishment, to pay gov-
ernors, judges, etc. Vide Laws of Jamaica.

"8. In time of war, on requisition made by the king
with consent of Parliament, every colony shall raise
such sums of money as their legislatures may think
stiitable to their abilities and the public exigency,
to be laid out in raising and paying men for land and
sea service, furnishing provisions, transports, or
such other purposes as the king shall require and
direct.

" 9. The acts of navigation to be reexamined, in
order to see whether some alterations might not be
made therein as much for the advantage of Great
Britain as the ease of the colonies.

I Supposed to mean the Boston Port Act. — B. F.

1775] Benjamin Franklin 53

"10. A naval officer to be appointed by the crown
to reside in each colony to see those acts observed.

" N. B. — In some colonies they are not appointed by
the crown.

"11. All duties arising on the acts for regulating
trade with the colonies to be for public use of the
respective colonies, and paid into their treasuries,
and an officer of the crown to see it done.

"12. The admiralty courts to be reduced to the
same powers as they have in England.

" 13. All judges in the king's colony governments
to be appointed during good behavior, and to be
paid by the province, agreeable to article seventh.

" N. B. — If the king chooses to add to their salaries,
the same to be sent from England.

" 14. — The governors to be supported in the same
manner."

Our conversation turned chiefly upon the first
article. It was said that the ministry only wanted
some opening to be given them, some ground on
which to found the commencement of conciliating
measures ; that a petition containing such an engage-
ment as mentioned in this article would answer that
purpose ; that preparations were making to send over
more troops and ships; that such a petition might
prevent their going, especially if a commissioner
were proposed. I was therefore urged to engage
the colony agents to join with me in such a petition.
My answer was, that no agent had any thing to do
with the tea business but those for Massachusetts
Bay, who were Mr. Bollan for the Council, myself

54 The Works of [1775

for the Assembly, and Mr. Lee, appointed to succeed
me when I should leave England; that the latter,
therefore, could hardly yet be considered as an agent;
and that the former was a cautious, exact man, and
not easily persuaded to take steps of such importance
without instructions or authority; that, therefore, if
such a step were to be taken, it would lie chiefly on
me to take it; that, indeed, if there were, as they
supposed, a clear probability of good to be done by
it, I should make no scruple of hazarding myself in
it ; but I thought the empowering a commissioner to
suspend the Boston Port Act was a method too dila-
tory, and a mere suspension would not be satisfac-
tory; that if such an engagement were entered into,
all the Massachusetts acts should be immediately
repealed.

They laid hold of the readiness I had expressed to
petition on a probability of doing good, applauded
it, and urged me to draw up a petition immediately.
I said it was a matter of importance, and with their
leave I would take home the paper, consider the
propositions as they now stood, and give them my
opinion to-morrow evening. This was agreed to,
and for that time we parted.

Weighing now the present dangerous situation of
affairs in America, and the daily hazard of widening
the breach there irreparably, I embraced the idea
proposed in the paper of sending over a commis-
sioner, as it might be a means of suspending military
operations, and bring on a treaty, whereby mischief
would be prevented, and an agreement by degrees
be formed and established. I also concluded to do

1775] Benjamin Franklin 55

what had been desired of me as to the engagement,
and essayed a draft of a memorial to Lord Dart-
mouth for that purpose simply, to be signed only by
myself. As to the sending of a commissioner, a
measure which I was desired likewise to propose,
and express my sentiments of its utility, I appre-
hended m}^ colleagues in the agency might be justly
displeased if I took a step of such importance with-
out consulting them, and therefore I sketched a joint
petition to that purpose, for them to sign with me
if they pleased; but apprehending that would meet
with difficulty, I drew up a letter to Lord Dart-
mouth, containing the same proposition, with the
reasons for it, to be sent from me only. I made
also upon paper some remarks on the propositions,
with some hints on a separate paper, of further
remarks to be made in conversation, when we should
meet in the evening of the 17th. Copies of these
papers (except the first, which I do not find with
me on shipboard), are here placed as follows, viz.:

" To the King's Most Excellent Majesty:

"The Petition and Memorial of W. Bollan, B.
Franklin, and Arthur Lee,

" Most humbly showeth:
" That your petitioners, being agents for several
colonies, and deeply affected with the apprehension
of impending calamities that now threaten your
Majesty's subjects in America, beg leave to ap-
proach your throne, and to suggest with all humility
their opinion, formed on much attentive considera-
tion, that, if it should please your Majesty to permit

56 The Works of [1775

and authorize a meeting of delegates from the differ-
ent provinces, and appoint some person or persons of
dignity and wisdom from this country to preside in
that meeting, or to confer with the said delegates,
acquaint themselves fully with the true grievances of
the colonies, and settle the means of composing all
dissensions, such means to be afterwards ratified by
your Majesty if found just and suitable, your peti-
tioners are persuaded, from their thorough knowl-
edge of that country and people, that such a measure
might be attended with the most salutary effects,
prevent much mischief, and restore the harmony
which so long subsisted, and is so necessary to the
prosperity and happiness of all your Majesty's sub-
jects in every part of your extensive dominions;
which, that Heaven may preserve entire to your Ma-
jesty and your descendants, is the sincere prayer of
your Majesty's most dutiful subjects and servants."

" To the Right Honorable Lord Dartmouth.

" My Lord : — Being deeply apprehensive of the im-
pending calamities that threaten the nation and its
colonies through the present unhappy dissensions, I
have attentively considered by what possible means
those calamities may be prevented. The great im-
portance of a business which concerns us all, will, I
hope, in some degree excuse me to your lordship if I
presume, unasked, to offer my humble opinion, that
should his Majesty think fit to authorize delegates
from the several provinces to meet at such conven-
ient time and place as in his wisdom shall seem
meet, then and there to confer with a commission or

1775] Benjamin Franklin 57

commissioners to be appointed and empowered by
his Majesty, on the means of estabHshing a firm and
lasting union between Britain and the American
provinces, such a measure might be effectual for that
purpose. I cannot, therefore, but wish it may be
adopted, as no one can more ardently and sincerely
desire the general prosperity of the British dominions
than, my lord, your lordship's most obedient, etc.,

" B. Franklin."
"'Remarks on the Propositions

"Art. I . In consequence of that engagement, all the
Boston and Massachusetts acts to be suspended, and,
in compliance with that engagement, to be totally re-
pealed.

" By this amendment article fourth will become
unnecessary.

" Arts. 4 and 5. The numerous petitions heretofore
sent home by the colony Assemblies, and either re-
fused to be received, or received and neglected, or
answered harshly, and the petitioners rebuked for
making them, have, I conceive, totally discouraged
that method of application ; and if even their friends
were now to propose to them the recurring again to
petitioning, such friends would be thought to trifle
with them. Besides, all they desire is now before
government in the petition of the Congress, and the
whole or parts may be granted or refused at pleasure.
The sense of the colonies cannot be better obtained
by petition from different colonies than it is by that
general petition.

" Art. 7. Read, such as they may think necessary.

58 The Works of [1775

"Art. II. As it stands, of little importance. The
first proposition was, that they should be repealed as
unjust. But they may remain, for they will probably
not be executed,

"Even with the amendment proposed above to arti-
cle first, I cannot think it stands as it should do. If
the object be merely the preventing present blood-
shed, and the other mischiefs to fall on that coun-
try in war, it may possibly answer that end; but, if
a thorough, hearty reconciliation is wished for all
cause of heart-burning should be removed, and strict
justice be done on both sides. Thus the tea should
not only be paid for on the side of Boston, but the
damage done to Boston by the Port Act should be
repaired, because it was done contrary to the custom
of all nations, savage as well as civilized, of first de-
manding satisfaction.

" Art. 14. The judges should receive nothing from
the king.

" As to the other two acts, the Massachusetts must
suffer all the hazards and mischiefs of war rather
than admit the alteration of their charters and laws
by Parliament. 'They who can give up essential
liberty to obtain a little temporary safety, deserve
neither liberty nor safety.' B. Franklin."

" Hints

" I doubt the regulating duties will not be accepted,
without enacting them, and having the power of
appointing the collectors in the colonies.

" If we mean a hearty reconciliation, we must deal
candidly, and use no tricks.

1775] Benjamin Franklin 59

" The Assemblies are many of them in a state of
dissolution. It will require time to make new elec-
tions; then to meet and choose delegates, supposing
all could meet. But the Assembly of the Massachu-
setts Bay cannot act under the new constitution, or
meet the new Council for that purpose, without
acknowledging the power of Parliament to alter their
charter, which they never will do. The language of
the proposal is: Try on my fetters -first, and then, if
you don't like them, petition and we will consider.

" Establishing salaries for judges may be a general
law. For governors not so, the constitution of
colonies differing. It is possible troops may be
sent to particular provinces, to burden them when
they are out of favor.

" Canada. We cannot endure despotism over any
of our fellow-subjects. We must all be free, or none. "

That afternoon I received the following note from
Mrs. Howe, enclosing another from Lord Howe,
viz.:

"Mrs. Howe's compliments to Dr. Franklin; she
has just received the enclosed note from Lord Howe,
and hopes it will be convenient to him to come to
her, either to-morrow or Sunday, at any hour most
convenient to him, which she begs he will be so good
to name.

"Grafton Street, Friday, February 17, 1775."
[Enclosed in the foregoing.],

" To the Honorable Mrs. Howe:

" I wish you to procure me an opportunity to see

6o The Works of [1775

Dr. Franklin at your house to-morrow, or on Sunday
morning, for an essential purpose.

''Grafton Street, Friday, four o'clock. Received Friday, -five o'clock,
February 17, 1775."

I had not heard from his lordship for some time,
and readily answered that I would do myself the
honor of waiting upon him at her house to-morrow
at eleven o'clock.

Mr. Barclay, Dr. Fothergill, and myself met ac-
cording to appointment at the Doctor's house. I
delivered to them the "Remarks" I had made on
the paper, and we talked them over. I read also the
sketches I had made of the petitions and memorials ;
but they being of opinion that the repeal of none of
the Massachusetts acts could be obtained by my
engaging to pay for the tea, the Boston Port Act
excepted, and I insisting on a repeal of all, otherwise
declining to make the offer, that measure was de-
ferred for the present, and I pocketed my drafts.
They concluded, however, to report my sentiments,
and see if any further concession could be obtained.
They observed, too, that I had signed my "Re-
marks"; on which I said that, understanding by
other means, as well as from them, that the ministers
had been acquainted with my being consulted in this
business, I saw no occasion for further mystery;
and, since conveying and receiving through second
hands their sentiments and mine occasioned delay,
and might be attended with misapprehension, some-
thing being lost or changed by mistake in the con-
veyance, I did not see why we should not meet and
discuss the points together at once ; that, if this was

1775] Benjamin Franklin 6i

thought proper, I should be willing and ready to
attend them to the ministerial persons they conferred
with. They seemed to approve the proposal, and
said they would mention it.

The next morning I met Lord Howe, according to
appointment. He seemed very cheerful, having, as
I imagine, heard from Lord Hyde what that lord
might have heard from Mr. Barclay the evening of
the 1 6th, viz., that I had consented to petition, and
engage payment for the tea; whence it was hoped
the ministerial terms of accommodation might take
place. He let me know that he was thought of to
be sent commissioner for settling the differences in
America, adding, with an excess of politeness, that,
sensible of his own unacquaintedness with the busi-
ness, and of my knowledge and abilities, he could
noD think of undertaking it without me; but, with
me, he should do it most readily; for he should found
his expectation of success on my assistance. He
therefore had desired this meeting, to know my
mind upon a proposition of my going with him in
some shape or other, as a friend, an assistant, or
secretary; that he was very sensible, if he should
be so happy as to effect any thing valuable, it must
be wholly owing to the advice and assistance I should
afford him; that he should therefore make no scruple
of giving me upon all occasions the full honor of it;
that he had declared to the ministers his opinion of
my good dispositions towards peace, and what he
now wished was to be authorized by me to say, that
I consented to accompany him, and would cooperate
with him in the great work of reconciliation; that

62 The Works of [1775

the influence I had over the minds of people in
America was known to be very extensive ; and that
I could, if any man could, prevail with them to com-
ply with reasonable propositions.

I replied, that I was obliged to his lordship for
the favorable opinion he had of me, and for the honor
he did me in proposing to make use of my assistance ;
that I wished to know what propositions were in-
tended for America; that, if they were reasonable
ones in themselves, possibly I might be able to make
them appear such to my countrymen; but, if they
were otherwise, I doubted whether that could be
done by any man, and certainly I should not under-
take it. His lordship then said that he should not
expect my assistance without a proper consideration.
That the business was of great importance; and, if
he undertook it, he should insist on being enabled
to make generous and ample appointments for those
he took with him, particularly for me; as well as a
firm promise of subsequent rewards. "And," said
he, "that the ministry may have an opportunity of
showing their good disposition towards yourself,
will you give me leave, Mr. Franklin, to procure for
you previously some mark of it; suppose the pay-
ment here of the arrears of your salary, as agent for
New England, which I understand they have stopped
for some time past?" "My lord," said I, "I shall
deem it a great honor to be in any shape joined with
your lordship in so good a work; but, if you hope
service from any influence I may be supposed to
have, drop all thoughts of procuring me any previ-
ous favors from ministers ; my accepting them would

1775] Benjamin Franklin 63

destroy the ver>^ influence you propose to make use
of ; they would be considered as so many bribes to
betray the interest of my country; but only let me
see the propositions, and, if I approve of them, I
shall not hesitate a moment, but will hold myself
ready to accompany your lordship at an hour's
warning." He then said he wished I would dis-
course with Lord Hyde upon the business, and asked
if I had any objection to meet his lordship. I
answered, none, not the least; that I had a great re-
spect for Lord Hyde, and would wait upon him
whenever he should be pleased to permit it. He
said he would speak to Lord Hyde, and send me word.
On the Monday following, I received a letter from
Lord Howe. To understand it better, it is necessary
to reflect that in the meantime there was opportunity
for Mr. Barclay to commimicate to that nobleman
the "Remarks" I had made on the Plan, the sight
of which had probably changed the purpose of mak-
ing any use of me on the occasion. The letter
follows :

"Grafton Street, February 20, 1775.

" Not having had a convenient opportunity to
talk with Lord Hyde until this morning, on the sub-
ject I mentioned when I had, my worthy friend, the
pleasure to see you last, I now give you the earliest
information of his lordship's sentiments upon my
proposition.

"He declares he has no personal objection, and that
he is always desirous of the conversation of men of
knowledge; consequently, in that respect, would
have a pleasure in yours. But he apprehends that

64 The Works of [1775

on the present American contest your principles
and his, or rather those of Parliament, are as yet so
wide from each other, that a meeting merely to dis-
cuss them might give you unnecessary trouble.
Should you think otherwise, or should any pro-
pitious circumstances approximate such distant
sentiments, he would be happy to be used as a chan-
nel to convey what might tend to harmony from a
person of credit to those in power. And I will ven-
ture to advance, from my knowledge of his lordship's
opinion of men and things, that nothing of that
nature would suffer in the passage.

" I am, with sincere regard, your most obedient
servant, " Howe.

"To Dr. Franklin."

As I had no desire of obtruding myself upon Lord
Hyde, though a little piqued at his declining to see
me, I thought it best to show a decent indifference,
which I endeavored in the following answer:

"Craven Street, February 20, 1775.

" Having nothing to offer on the American busi-
ness in addition to what Lord Hyde is already ac-
quainted with from the papers that have passed, it
seems most respectful not to give his lordship the
trouble of a visit; since a mere discussion of the
sentiments contained in those papers is not, in his
opinion, likely to produce any good effect. I am
thankful, however, to his lordship for the permission
of waiting on him, which I shall use if any thing oc-
curs that may give a chance of utility in such an
interview.

1775] Benjamin Franklin 65

" With sincere esteem and respect, I have the honor
to be, my lord, your lordship's most obedient humble
servant, " B. Franklin.

"To Lord Howe."

On the morning of the same day, February 20th,
it was currently and industriously reported all over
the town, that Lord North would that day make a
pacific motion in the House of Commons for healing
all differences between Britain and America. The
House was accordingly very full, and the members
full of expectation. The Bedford party, inimical to
America, and who had urged severe measures, were
alarmed, and began to exclaim against the minister
for his timidity, and the fluctuation of his politics;
they even began to count voices, to see if they could
not, by negativing his motion, at once imhorse him,
and throw him out of administration. His friends
were therefore alarmed for him, and there was much
caballing and whispering. At length a motion, as
one had been promised, was made, but whether that
originally intended, is with me very doubtful. I sus-
pect, from its imperfect composition, from its inade-
quateness to answer the purpose previously pro-
fessed, and from some other circumstances, that,
when first drawn, it contained more of Mr. Barclay's
plan, but was curtailed by advice, just before it was
delivered. My old proposition of giving up the
regulating duties to the colonies was in part to be
found in it; and many, who knew nothing of that
transaction, said it was the best part of the motion.
It was as follows :

66 The Works of [1775

"lord north's motion, FEBRUARY 20, 1775

" That it is the opinion of this committee, that
when the Governor, Council, and Assembly, or the
General Court of his Majesty's provinces or colonies
shall propose to make provision according to their
respective conditions, circumstances, and situations,
for contributing their proportion to the common
defence, such proportion to be raised under the
authority of the General Court or General Assembly
of such province or colony, and disposable by Par-
liament, and shall engage to make provision also for
the support of the civil government and the admin-
istration of justice in such province or colony, it
will be proper, if such proposal shall be approved
by his Majesty in Parliament, and for so long as
such provision shall be made accordingly, to for-
bear, in respect of such province or colony, to levy
any duties, tax, or assessment, or to impose any
further duty, tax, or assessment, except only such
duties as it may be expedient to impose for the
regulation of commerce; the net produce of the
duties last mentioned to be carried to the account
of such province, colony, or plantation, exclusively."

After a good deal of wild debate, in which this mo-
tion was supported upon various and inconsistent
principles by the ministerial people, and even met
with an opposition from some of them, which showed
a want of concert, probably from the suddenness of
the alterations above supposed, they all agreed at
length, as usual, in voting it by a large majority.

1775] Benjamin Franklin 67

Hearing nothing during all the following week
from Messrs. Barclay and Fothergill, (except that
Lord Hyde, when acquainted with my willingness to
engage for the payment of the tea, had said it gave
him new life,) nor any thing from Lord Howe, I
mentioned his silence occasionally to his sister, add-
ing, that I supposed it owing to his finding what he
proposed to me was not likely to take place; and I
wished her to desire him, if that was the case, to let
me know it by a line, that I might be at liberty to
take other measures. She did so as soon as he re-
turned from the country, where he had been for a
day or two; and I received from her the following
note :

"Mrs. Howe's compliments to Dr. Franklin; Lord
Howp not quite understanding the message received
from her, will be very glad to have the pleasure of
seeing him, either between twelve and one this
morning (the only hour he is at liberty this day), at
her house, or at any hour to-morrow most convenient
to him.

" Graf ton Street, Tuesday."

I met his lordship at the hour appointed. He said
that he had not seen me lately, as he expected daily
to have something more material to say to me than
had yet occurred; and hoped that I would have
called on Lord Hyde, as I had intimated I should do
when I apprehended it might be useful, which he was
sorry to find I had not done. That there was some-
thing in my verbal message by Mrs. Howe, which
perhaps she had apprehended imperfectly; it was

68 The Works of [1775

the hint of my purpose to take other measures. I
answered that having, since I had last seen his lord-
ship, heard of the death of my wife at Philadelphia,
in whose hands I had left the care of my affairs there,
it was become necessary for me to return thither as
soon as conveniently might be; that what his lord-
ship had proposed of my accompanying him to
America might, if likely to take place, postpone my
voyage to suit his conveniency; otherwise, I should
proceed by the first ship; that I did suppose by not
hearing from him, and by Lord North's motion, all
thoughts of that kind were laid aside, which was
what I only desired to know from him.

He said my last paper of " Remarks," by Mr. Bar-
clay, wherein I had made the indemnification of Bos-
ton, for the injury of stopping its ports, a condition
of my engaging to pay for the tea (a condition im-
possible to be complied with), had discouraged fur-
ther proceeding on that idea. Having a copy of that
paper in my pocket, I showed his lordship that I had
proposed no such condition of my engagement, nor
any other than the repeal of all the Massachusetts
acts. That what followed relating to the indemnifi-
cation was only expressing my private opinion that
it would be just, but by no means insisting upon it.
He said the arrangements were not yet determined
on; that, as I now explained myself, it appeared I
had been much misapprehended; and he wished of
all things I would still see Lord Hyde, and asked if
I would choose to meet him there (at Mrs. Howe's),
or that he should call upon me. I said that I would
by no means give Lord Hyde that trouble. That

1775] Benjamin Franklin 69

since he (Lord Howe) seemed to think it might be of
use, and wished it done soon, I wotild wait upon Lord
Hyde. I knew him to be an early riser, and would
be with him at eight o'clock the next morning;
which Lord Howe undertook to acquaint him with.
But I added that, from what circumstances I could
collect of the disposition of the ministry, I appre-
hended my visit would answer no material purpose.
He was of a different opinion ; to which I submitted.

The next morning, March ist, I accordingly was
early with Lord Hyde, who received me with his
usual politeness. We talked over a great part of the
dispute between the countries. I found him ready
with all the newspaper and pamphlet topics: of the
expense of settling our colonies, the protection af-
forded them, the heavy debt under which Britain
labored, the equity of our contributing to its allevia-
tion; that many people in England were no more
represented than we were, yet all were taxed and
governed by Parliament, etc., etc. I answered all,
but with little effect ; for, though his lordship seemed
civilly to hear what I said, I had reason to believe he
attended very little to the purport of it, his mind
being employed the while in thinking on what he
himself purposed to say next.

He had hoped, he said, that Lord North's motion
would have been satisfactory ; and asked what could
be objected to it. I replied the terms of it were that
we should grant money till ParUament had agreed we
had given enough, without having the least share
in judging of the propriety of the measure for which it
was to be granted, or of our own abilities to grant;

70 The Works of [1775

that these grants were also to be made under a threat
of exercising a claimed right of taxing us at pleasure,
and compelling such taxes by an armed force, if we
did not give till it should be thought we had given
enough ; that the proposition was similar to no mode
of obtaining aids that ever existed, except that of a
highwayman, who presents his pistol and hat at a
coach window, demanding no specific sum, but, if you
will give him all your money, or what he is pleased to
think sufficient, he will civilly omit putting his own
hand into your pockets; if not, there is his pistol.
That the mode of raising contributions in an enemy's
country was fairer than this, since there an explicit
sum was demanded, and the people who were raising
it knew what they were about, and when they
should have done ; and that, in short, no free people
could ever think of beginning to grant upon such
terms. That, besides, a new dispute had now been
raised by the Parliament's pretending to a power of
altering our charters and established laws, which was
of still more importance to us than their claim of
taxation, as it set us all adrift, and left us without
a privilege we could depend upon but at their pleas-
ure ; this was a situation we could not possibly be in ;
and, as Lord North's proposition had no relation to
this matter, if the other had been such as we could
have agreed to, we should still be far from a recon-
ciliation.

His lordship thought I misunderstood the propo-
sition; on which I took it out and read it. He then
waived that point, and said he should be glad to know
from me, what would produce a reconciliation. I

1775] Benjamin Franklin 71

said, that his lordship, I imagined, had seen several
proposals of mine for that purpose. He said he
had; but some of my articles were such as would
never be agreed to. That it was apprehended I had
several instructions and powers to offer more accept-
able terms, but was extremely reserved, and perhaps
from a desire he did not blame, of doing better for
my constituents ; but my expectations might deceive
me; and he did think I might be assured I should
never obtain better terms than what were now offered
by Lord North. That administration had a sincere
desire of restoring harmony with America; and it
was thought, if I would cooperate with them, the
business would be easy. That he hoped I was above
retaining resentment against them, for what nobody
now approved, and for which satisfaction might be
made me; that I was, as he understood, in high
esteem among the Americans; that, if I would bring
about a reconciliation on terms suitable to the dig-
nity of government, I might be as highly and gener-
ally esteemed here, and be honored and rewarded,
perhaps, beyond my expectation.

I replied, that I thought I had given a convincing
proof of my sincere desire of promoting peace, when,
on being informed that all wanted for the honor of
government was, to obtain payment for the tea, I of-
fered, without any instruction to warrant my so
doing, or assurance that I should be reimbursed, or
my conduct approved, to engage for that payment,
if the Massachusetts acts were to be repealed; an
engagement in which I must have risked my whole
fortune, which I thought few besides me would have

72 The Works of

.1775

done. That, in truth, private resentments had no
weight with me in public business; that I was not
the reserved man imagined, having really no secret
instructions to act upon. That I was certainly
willing to do every thing that could reasonably be
expected of me. But, if any supposed I could pre-
vail with my countrymen to take black for white,
and wrong for right, it was not knowing either them
or me; they were not capable of being so imposed
on, nor was I capable of attempting it.

He then asked my opinion of sending over a com-
missioner, for the purpose mentioned in a preceding
part of this account, and my answer was to the same
effect. By the way, I apprehend that to give me an
opportunity of discoursing with Lord Hyde on that
point, was a principal motive with Lord Howe for
urging me to make this visit. His lordship did not
express his own sentiments upon it. And thus ended
this conversation.

Three or four days after I received the following
note from Mrs. Howe:

" Mrs. Howe's compliments to Dr. Franklin; Lord
Howe begs to have the pleasure of meeting him once
more before he goes, at her house; he is at present
out of town, but returns on Monday; and any day
or hour after that, that the Doctor will name, he will
be very glad to attend him.

"Grafton Street, Saturday, March 4th."

I answered that I would do myself the honor of
waiting on Lord Howe, at her house, the Tuesday
following at eleven o'clock. We met accordingly.

1775] Benjamin Franklin i:s

He began by saying that I had been a better prophet
than himself, in foreseeing that my interview with
Lord Hyde would be of no great use ; and then said
that he hoped I would excuse the trouble he had
given me, as his intentions had been good both
towards me and the public. He was sorry that at
present there was no appearance of things going into
the train he had wished, but that possibly they might
yet take a more favorable turn ; and as he understood
I was going soon to America, if he should chance to
be sent thither on that important business, he hoped
he might still expect my assistance. I assured him
of my readiness at all times of cooperating with him
in so good a work; and so, taking my leave, and re-
ceiving his good wishes, ended the negotiations with
Lord Howe. And I heard no more of that with
Messrs. Fothergill and Barclay. I could only gather,
from some hints in their conversation, that neither
of them were well pleased with the conduct of the
ministers respecting these transactions. And a few
days before I left London, I met them, by their de-
sire, at the Doctor's house, when they desired me to
assure their friends for them, that it was now their
fixed opinion that nothing could secure the privileges
of America but a firm, sober adherence to the terms
of the association made at the Congress, and that the
salvation of English liberty depended now on the
perseverance and virtue of America,

During the whole, my time was otherwise much
taken up by friends calling continually to inquire
news from America; members of both Houses of
Parliament, to inform me what passed in the Houses,

74 The Works of [1775

and discourse with me on the debates, and no mo-
tions made or to be made ; merchants of London and
of the manufacturing and port towns, on their peti-
tions; the Quakers, upon theirs, etc., etc.; so that I
had no time to take notes of almost any thing. This
account is therefore chiefly from recollection, in
which doubtless much must have been omitted, from
deficiency of memory ; but what there is I believe to
be pretty exact; except that discoursing with so
many different persons about the same time on the
same subject, I may possibly have put down some
things as said by or to one person, which passed in
conversation with another.

A little before I left London, being at the House
of Lords, during a debate in which Lord Camden was
to speak, and who indeed spoke admirably on Amer-
ican affairs, I was much disgusted, from the minis-
terial side, by many base reflections on American
courage, religion, understanding, etc., in which we
were treated with the utmost contempt, as the low-
est of mankind, and almost of a different species
from the English of Britain; but particularly the
American honesty was abused by some of the Lords,
who asserted that we were all knaves, and wanted
only by this dispute to avoid paying our debts ; that
if we had any sense of equity or justice, we should
offer payment of the tea, etc. I went home some-
what irritated and heated; and partly to retort upon
this nation, on the article of equity, drew up a me-
morial to present to Lord Dartmouth before my
departure; but, consulting my friend, Mr. Thomas
Walpole, upon it, who is a member of the House

1775] Benjamin Franklin 75

of Commons, he looked at it and at me several times
alternately, as if he apprehended me a little out of
my senses. As I was in the hurry of packing up, I
requested him to take the trouble of showing it to
his neighbor. Lord Camden, and ask his advice upon
it, which he kindly undertook to do; and returned
it to me with a note, which here follows the proposed
memorial :

" A MEMORIAL OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN, AGENT OF THE
PROVINCE OF MASSACHUSETTS BAY

" To the Right Honorable the Earl of Dartmouth, one of
his Majesty's principal Secretaries of State:
" Whereas an injury done can only give the party
injured a right to full reparation ; or, in case that be
refused, a right to return an equal injury ; and where-
as the blockade of Boston, now continued nine
months, hath every week of its continuance done
damage to that town, equal to what was suffered
there by the India Company; it follows that such
exceeding damage is an injury done by this govern-
ment, for which reparation ought to be made; and
whereas reparation of injuries ought always (agree-
ably to the custom of all nations, savage as well as
civilized) to be first required, before satisfaction is
taken by a return of damage to the aggressors ; which
was not done by Great Britain in the instance above
mentioned; I the underwritten do therefore, as their
agent, in the behalf of my country and the said town
of Boston, protest against the continuance of the
said blockade; and I do hereby solemnly demand
satisfaction for the accumulated injury done them,

76 The Works of [1775

beyond the value of the India Company's tea de-
stroyed.

" And whereas the conquest of the Gulf of St. Law-
rence, the coasts of Labrador and Nova Scotia, and
the fisheries possessed by the French there and on
the Banks of Newfoundland, so far as they were
more extended than at present, was made by the
joint forces of Britain and the colonies, the latter
having nearly an equal number of men in that ser-
vice with the former, it follows that the colonies have
an equitable and just right to participate in the ad-
vantage of those fisheries; I do, therefore, in the be-
half of the colony of the Massachusetts Bay, protest
against the act now under consideration in Parlia-
ment, for depriving that province, with others, of
that fishery (on pretence of their refusing to purchase
British commodities), as an act highly unjust and
injurious; and I give notice, that satisfaction will
probably one day be demanded for all the injury that
may be done and suffered in the execution of such
act ; and that the injustice of the proceeding is likely
to give such umbrage to all the colonies, that in no
future war, wherein other conquests may be medi-
tated, either a man or a shilling will be obtained from
any of them to aid such conquests, till full satisfac-
tion be made as aforesaid. B. Franklin.

"Given in London, this i6th day of March, 1775."

" Dear Sir: — I return you the memorial, which it
is thought might be attended with dangerous con-
sequences to your person, and contribute to exas-
perate the nation.

1775] Benjamin Franklin n

" I heartily wish you a prosperous voyage, and long
health, and am, with the sincerest regard, your most
faithful and obedient servant,

"Thomas Walpole.

"Lincoln's Inn Fields, i6th March, 1775."

Mr. Walpole called at my house the next day, and,
hearing I was gone to the House of Lords, came there
to me, and repeated more fully what was in his note;
adding, that it was thought my having no instruc-
tions directing me to deliver such a protest, would
make it appear still more tmjustifiable, and be deemed
a national affront. I had no desire to make matters
worse, and, being grown cooler, took the advice so
kindly given me.

The evening before I left London, I received a
note from Dr. Fothergill, with some letters to his
friends in Philadelphia. In that note he desires me
to get those friends " and two or three more together,
and inform them that, whatever specious pretences
are offered, they are all hollow; and that to get a
larger field on which to fatten a herd of worthless
parasites is all that is regarded. Perhaps it may be
proper to acquaint them with David Barclay's and
our united endeavors, and the effects. They will
stun at least, if not convince, the most worthy, that
nothing very favorable is intended, if more un-
favorable articles cannot be obtained. " The Doctor,
in the course of his daily visits among the great,
in the practice of his profession, had full opportunity
of being acquainted with their sentiments, the con-
versation everywhere turning upon the subject of
America.

78 The Works of [1775

DXCIX

TO JOSEPH PRIESTLEY

Philadelphia, i6 May, 1775.

Dear Friend: — You will have heard, before this
reaches you, of a march stolen by the regulars into
the country by night, and of their expedition back
again. They retreated twenty miles in six hours. ^
The governor had called the Assembly to propose
Lord North's pacific plan, but, before the time of
their meeting, began cutting of throats. You know
it was said he carried the sword in one hand and the
olive branch in the other; and it seems he chose to
give them a taste of the sword first.

He is doubling his fortifications at Boston, and
hopes to secure his troops till succor arrives. The
place indeed is naturally so defensible that I think
them in no danger. All America is exasperated by
his conduct, and more firmly united than ever. The
breach between the two countries is grown wider,
and in danger of becoming irreparable.

I had a passage of six weeks, the weather con-
stantly so moderate that a London wherry might
have accompanied us all the way. I got home in
the evening, and the next morning was unanimously
chosen by the Assembly of Pennsylvania a delegate
to the Congress now sitting.

In coming over I made a valuable philosophical
discovery, which I shall communicate to you when I
can get a little time." At present I am extremely
hurried. Yours most affectionately, B . Franklin .

1 Alluding to the affair at Lexington and Concord.

2 Alluding to his experiments with a thermometer in crossing the
Gulf Stream.

1775] Benjamin Franklin 79

DC

TO MRS. JANE MECOM

Philadelphia, 26 May, 1775.

Dear Sister: — I have just now heard, by Mr.
Adams, that you are come out of Boston, and are at
Warwick, in Rhode Island. I suppose it must be at
good Mr. and Mrs. Greene's, to whom present my
affectionate respects. I write this Hne just to let you
know that I am returned well from England, and
that I found my family well ; but have not found the
repose I wished for, being the next morning after my
arrival delegated to the Congress by our Assembly.

I wish to hear from you, and to know how you
have left your affairs in Boston; and whether it
would be inconvenient for you to come hither; or
you wish rather that I should come to see you, if the
business I am engaged in will permit. Let me know
if you want any assistance, and what is become of
cousin Williams and his family, and other friends.
Jonathan was at Paris when I left England, but to
return in a week or two. I am ever, my dear sister,
your very loving brother,

B. Franklin.

DCI

TO MR. STRAHAN ^

Philadelphia, 5 July, 1775.

Mr. Strahan : — You are a member of Parliament,
and one of that majority which has doomed my

^ King's printer, London.

8o The Works of [1775

country to destruction. You have begun to burn
our towns, and murder our people. Look upon your
hands; they are stained with the blood of your rela-
tions! You and I were long friends; you are now
my enemy, and I am,

Yours,

B. Franklin.

DCII

TO JOSEPH PRIESTLEY

Philadelphia, 7 July, 1775.

Dear Friend : — The Congress met at a time when
all minds were so exasperated by the perfidy of Gen-
eral Gage, and his attack on the country people, that
propositions for attempting an accommodation were
not much relished; and it has been with difficulty
that we have carried another humble petition to the
crown, to give Britain one more chance, one oppor-
tunity more, of recovering the friendship of the col-
onies; which, however, I think she has not sense
enough to embrace, and so I conclude she has lost
them forever.

She has begun to bum our seaport towns; secure,
I suppose, that we shall never be able to return the
outrage in kind. She may doubtless destroy them
all; but, if she wishes to recover our commerce, are
these the probable means? She must certainly be
distracted; for no tradesman out of Bedlam ever
thought of increasing the number of his customers,
by knocking them on the head ; or of enabling them

1775] Benjamin Franklin 8i

to pay their debts, by burning their houses. If she
wishes to have us subjects, and that we shovild sub-
mit to her as our compound sovereign, she is now
giving us such miserable specimens of her govern-
ment, that we shall ever detest and avoid it, as a
complication of robbery, murder, famine, fire, and
pestilence.

You will have heard, before this reaches you, of
the treacherous conduct of General Gage to the re-
maining people in Boston, in detaining their goods,
after stipulating to let them go out with their
effects, on pretence that merchants' goods were not
effects; the defeat of a great body of his troops by
the country people at Lexington; some other small
advantages gained in skirmishes with their troops;
and the action at Bunker's Hill, in which they were
twice repulsed, and the third time gained a dear
victory. Enough has happened, one would think, to
convince your ministers that the Americans will
fight, and that this is a harder nut to crack than they
imagined.

We have not yet applied to any foreign power
for assistance, nor offered our commerce for their
friendship. Perhaps we never may ; yet it is natural
to think of it if we are pressed. We have now an
army on the establishment, which still holds yours
besieged. My time was never more fully employed.
In the morning at six, I am at the Committee of
Safety, appointed by the Assembly to put the prov-
ince in a state of defence; which committee holds
till near nine, when I am at the Congress, and that
sits till after four in the afternoon. Both these

82 The Works of [1775

bodies proceed with the greatest unanimity, and
their meetings are well attended. It will scarce
be credited in Britain, that men can be as diligent
with us from zeal for the public good, as with you
for thousands per annum. Such is the difference
between uncorrupted new states, and corrupted old
ones.

Great frugality and great industry are now become
fashionable here. Gentlemen, who used to entertain
with two or three courses, pride themselves now in
treating with simple beef and pudding. By these
means, and the stoppage of our consumptive trade
with Britain, we shall be better able to pay our
voltmtary taxes for the support of our troops. Our
savings in the article of trade amount to near five
millions sterling per annum.

I shall communicate your letter to Mr. Winthrop;
but the camp is at Cambridge, and he has as little
leisure for philosophy as myself. Believe me ever,
etc., B. Franklin.

DCIII

TO MRS. MARY HEWSON

Philadelphia, 8 July, 1775.

My Dear Friend: — I thank you for your kind
letter of April 14th. It grieves me that the present
situation of public affairs makes it not eligible for
you to come hither with your family, because I am
sure you would otherwise like this country, and might
provide better here for your children, at the same

1775] Benjamin Franklin 83

time that I should be made more happy by your
neighborhood and company. I flatter myself, that
this may yet happen, and that our public disputes
may be ended by the time your private business is
settled to your mind, and then we may be all happv
together. ^^^

The debt you mention of mine to Bolton remains
unpaid through his own neglect. I was charged by
Matthews ten pounds for the tea-kitchen, but Bolton
told me I ought not to pay so much; that he would
see what it should be when he got home, and send
me word, which he never did. I dunned him for it
by letters as often as Matthews sent to me, but re-
ceived no answer.

I take it kindly of my godson, that he should re-
member me ; my love to him. I am glad to hear the
dear children are all well through the measles. I
have much delight in my godsons. Mr. and Mrs
Bache join in love to yours. Ben,^ when I delivered
him your blessing, inquired the age of Elizabeth, and
thought her yet too young for him; but, as he made
no other objection, and that will lessen every day, I
have only to wish being alive to dance with your
mother at the wedding. Temple was much obliged
by your kind remembrance of him. He is now very
happy with his father at Amboy, near New York but
returns to me in September, to prosecute his studies
m our college.

I am much pleased with the contribution letter
and thank you for your share of it. I am still well
and hearty, and never went through more business

^ Benjamin Franklin Bache, grandson of Dr. Franklin.

84 The Works of [1775

than I do at present. God knows when I shall be
permitted to enjoy the repose I wish. Adieu, my
very dear friend. Continue your pleasing corres-
pondence, and believe me ever yours most affection-
ately, B. Franklin.

DCIV

TO PETER V. B. LIVINGSTON '

Perth Amboy, 29 August, 1775.

Sir; — The Committee of Safety acquainted you
by a letter, dated the 26th instant, that we had or-
dered a ton of gunpowder to be sent to you, agree-
ably to your request. It left Philadelphia early on
Simday morning, and yesterday I overtook the
wagon on the road at Trenton, and left it proceeding
on the journey. But being informed this morning
at Brunswick, that four wagon loads of powder had
passed through that place on Friday evening for your
city, and supposing it to be the powder which you
mentioned as having been expected but not arrived,
which occasioned your sending to us, and as we
have still too little at Philadelphia, I thought it best
to stop that powder, and send it back again, and
wrote accordingly to the wagoner by a person just
setting out for Trenton. I write this, therefore, that
you may not expect it at New York in consequence
of our letter. With great respect and esteem, I am,
etc., B. Franklin.

' Chairman of the Committee of Safety in New York. Dr. Franklin
was chairman of a similar committee in Philadelphia. When this letter
was written, he was on a visit to his son , the governor of New Jersey,
who then resided at Perth Amboy.

i77sl Benjamin Franklin 85

DCV

TO JOSEPH PRIESTLEY

Philadelphia, 3 October, 1775.

Dear Sir: — I am to set out to-morrow for the
camp, and, having just heard of this opportunity,
can only write a Hne to say that I am well and
hearty.' Tell our dear good friend, Dr. Price, who
sometimes has his doubts and despondencies about
our firmness, that America is determined and unani-
mous; a very few Tories and placemen excepted,
who will probably soon export themselves. Britain,
at the expense of three millions, has killed one
hundred and fifty Yankees this campaign, which is
twenty thousand pounds a head; and at Bunker's
Hill she gained a mile of ground, half of which she
lost again by our taking post on Ploughed Hill.
During the same time sixty thousand children have
been born in America. From these data his mathe-
matical head will easily calculate the time and ex-
pense necessary to kill us all, and conquer our whole

territory. My sincere respects to , and to

the club of honest Whigs at . Adieu. I am

ever yours most affectionately,

B. Franklin.

^ On the 30th of September, Congress appointed Dr. Franklin, Mr.
Lynch, and Mr. Harrison, as a committee to confer with General Wash-
ington, concerning the best mode of supporting and regulating the
Continental army. The committee proceeded to the camp at Cam-
bridge, and the conference was held on the i8th of October. See
Washington's Writings, Vol. III., p. 123.

86 The Works of [1775

DCVI

TO A FRIEND IN ENGLAND *

Philadelphia, 3 October, 1775.

Dear Sir: — I wish as ardently as you can do
for peace, and shoiild rejoice exceedingly in co-
operating with you to that end. But every ship
from Britain brings some intelligence of new meas-
ures that tend more and more to exasperate ; and it
seems to me that until you have found by dear ex-
perience the reducing us by force impracticable, you
will think of nothing fair and reasonable.

We have as yet resolved only on defensive meas-
ures. If you would recall yotir forces and stay at
home, we should meditate nothing to injure you.
A little time so given for cooling on both sides would
have excellent effects. But you will goad and pro-
voke us. You despise us too much; and you are
insensible of the Italian adage, that there is no little
enemy. I am persuaded that the body of the British
people are our friends; but they are changeable, and
by your lying gazettes may soon be made our ene-
mies. Our respect for them will proportionably di-
minish, and I see clearly we are on the high road to
mutual enmity, hatred and detestation. A separa-
tion of course will be inevitable. It is a million of
pities, so fair a plan as we have hitherto been engaged
in for increasing strength and empire with public
felicity, should be destroyed by the mangling hands

I This letter was first printed in Mr. Vaughan's edition, but without
the name of the person to whom it was written. Probably it was to
David Hartley.

^775] Benjamin Franklin 87

of a few blundering ministers. It will not be de-
stroyed; God will protect and prosper it; you will
only exclude yourselves from any share in it. We
hear that more ships and troops are coming out.
We know that you may do us a great deal of mis-
chief, and are determined to bear it patiently as
long as we can. But if you flatter yourselves with
beating us into submission, you know neither the
people nor the country. The Congress is still sitting,
and will wait the result of their last petition.

Yours, etc.,

B. Franklin.

DCVII

TO CHARLES W. F. DUMAS '

Philadelphia, 9 December, 1775.

Dear Sir:— I received your several favors, of
May 1 8th, June 30th, and July 8th, by Messrs. Vail-
lant and Pochard; whom if I could serve upon your

- Charles William Frederick Dumas was a native of Switzerland but
he passed much of his Hfe in Holland. He edited an edition of Vattel
/;. w, "^^^ ^'"^ ""^ Holland, and formed so favorable an opinion
of his ability and character, that he recommended him to the Committee
of Secret Correspondence, as a suitable person to be employed in their
service, and was accepted. When Mr. John Adams was minister from
the Lnited States m Holland, Mr. Dumas performed the office of secre-
tary and translator; and, after Mr. Adams' departure, he acted for
some time m the capacity of Charge d' Affaires, and exchanged with the
Ad^ms ^^^^"^^"^^ ^^^ ratification of the treaty negotiated by Mr.

The Committee of Secret Correspondence was appointed by Congress
on the 29th of November, 1775. for the purpose of corresponding with
persons ^Europe who were supposed to be friends to the American
cause. The above letter was written by Dr. Franklin as a member of
that committee On the 17th of April, 1777, the style of the committee
was changed to that of the Committee of Foreign Affairs.

88 The Works of [1775

recommendation, it would give me great pleasure.
Their total want of English is at present an ob-
struction to their getting any employment among us;
but I hope they will soon obtain some knowledge of
it. This is a good country for artificers or farmers;
but gentlemen of mere science in les belles lettres can-
not so easily subsist here, there being little demand
for their assistance among an industrious people, who,
as yet, have not much leisure for studies of that kind.
I am much obliged by the kind present you have
made us of your edition of Vattel. It came to us in
good season, when the circumstances of a rising state
make it necessary frequently to consult the law of
nations. Accordingly, that copy, which I kept
(after depositing one in our own public library here,
and sending the other to the College of Massachu-
setts Bay, as you directed) has been continually in
the hands of the members of our Congress, now sit-
ting, who are much pleased with your notes and
preface, and have entertained a high and just esteem
for their author. Your manuscript, "Idee sur le
Gouvernement et la Royaute," is also well relished,
and may, in time, have its effect. I thank you,
likewise, for the other smaller pieces which accom-
panied Vattel. " Le court expose de ce qui s'est pass^
entre la Cour britannique et les Colonies," etc., being
a ver>^ concise and clear statement of facts, will be
reprinted here for the use of our new friends in
Canada. The translations of the proceedings of
our Congress are very acceptable. I send you here-
with what of them has been further published here,
together with a few newspapers, containing accounts

1775] Benjamin Franklin 89

of some of the successes Providence has favored us
with. We are threatened from England with a very
powerful force, to come next year against us. We
are making all the provision in our power here to
oppose that force, and we hope we shall be able to
defend ourselves. But, as the events of war are
always uncertain, possibly, after another campaign,
we may find it necessary to ask the aid of some for-
eign power.

It gives us great pleasure to learn from you that
toute V Europe nous souhaite le plus heureux sneers
pour la maintien de nos liberies. But we wish to
know whether any one of them, from principles of
humanity, is disposed magnanimously to step in for
the relief of an oppressed people; or whether if, as
it seems likely to happen, we should be obliged to
break off all connection with Britain, and declare
ourselves an independent people, there is any state
or power in Europe who would be willing to enter
into an alliance with us for the benefit of our com-
merce, which amounted before the war to near
seven millions sterling per annum, and must con-
tinually increase, as our people increase most rapidly.
Confiding, my dear friend, in your good-will to us
and our cause, and in your sagacity and abilities for
business, the committee of Congress, appointed for
the purpose of establishing and conducting a cor-
respondence with our friends in Europe, of which
committee I have the honor to be a member, have
directed me to request of you that, as you are situ-
ated at the Hague, where ambassadors from all the
courts reside, you would make use of the opportunity

90 The Works of [1775

that situation affords you of discovering, if possible,
the disposition of the several courts with respect to
such assistance or alliance, if we should apply for the
one or propose the other. As it may possibly be
necessary, in particular instances, that you should,
for this purpose, confer directly with some great
ministers, and show them this letter as your creden-
tial, we only recommend it to your discretion, that
you proceed therein with such caution as to keep the
same from the knowledge of the English ambassador,
and prevent any public appearance, at present, of
your being employed in any such business, as there-
by, we imagine, many inconveniences may be avoided,
and your means of rendering us service increased.

That you may be better able to answer some
questions, which will probably be put to you, con-
cerning our present situation, we inform you that
the whole continent is very firmly united, the party
for the measures of the British ministry being very
small and much dispersed ; that we have had on foot,
the last campaign, an army of near twenty-five
thousand men, wherewith we have been able, not
only to block up the king's army in Boston, but to
spare considerable detachments for the invasion of
Canada, where we have met with great success, as
the printed papers sent herewith will inform you, and
have now reason to expect the whole province may
be soon in our possession; that we purpose greatly
to increase our force for the ensuing year, and thereby
we hope, with the assistance of a well disciplined
militia, to be able to defend our coast, notwithstand-
ing its great extent; that we have already a small

^775] Benjamin Franklin 91

squadron of armed vessels to protect our coasting
trade, who have had some success in taking several
of the enemy's cruisers, and some of their transport
vessels and store-ships. This little naval force we
are about to augment, and expect it may be more
considerable in the next summer.

We have hitherto applied to no foreign power.
We are using the utmost industry in endeavoring to
make saltpetre, and with daily increasing success.
Our artificers are also everywhere busy in fabricating
small-arms, casting cannon, etc. ; yet both arms and
ammunition are much wanted. Any merchants, who
would venture to send ships laden with those articles,
might make great profit ; such is the demand in ever^
colony, and such generous prices are and will be
given; of which, and of the manner of conducting
such a voyage, the bearer, Mr. Story, can more fully
mform you; and whoever brings in those articles is
allowed to carry off the value in provisions, to our
West Indies, where they will probably fetch a very
high price, the general exportation from North
America being stopped. This you will see more par-
ticulariy in a printed resolution of the Congress.

We are in great want of good engineers, and wish
you could engage and send us two able ones, in time
for the next campaign, one acquainted with field ser-
vice, sieges, etc., and the other with fortifying of sea-
ports. They will, if well recommended, be made very
welcome, and have honorable appointments, besides
the expenses of their voyage hither, in which Mr.
Story can also advise them. As what we now re-
quest of you, besides taking up your time, may put

92 The Works of [1775

you to some expense, we send you for the present,
enclosed, a bill for one hundred pounds sterling, to
defray such expenses, and desire you to be assured
that your services will be considered and honorably
rewarded by the Congress.

We desire also that you would take the trouble
of receiving from Arthur Lee, agent for the Con-
gress in England, such letters as may be sent by
him to your care, and of forwarding them to us with
your despatches. When you have occasion to write
to him to inform him of any thing, which it may be
of importance that our friends there should be ac-
quainted with, please to send your letters to him, un-
der cover, directed to Mr. Alderman Lee, merchant,
on Tower Hill, London; and do not send it by post,
but by some trusty shipper, or other prudent per-
son, who will deliver it with his own hand. And
when you send to us, if you have not a direct safe
opportunity, we recommend sending by way of St.
Eustatia, to the care of Messrs. Robert and Cornelius
Stevenson, merchants there, who will forward your
despatches to me. With sincere and great esteem
and respect, I am, sir, etc., B. Franklin.

DCVIII

TO HIS MOST SERENE HIGHNESS, DON GABRIEL OF
BOURBON

Philadelphia, 12 December, 1775.

Illustrious Prince: — I have just received,
through the hands of the ambassador of Spain, the

17751 Benjamin Franklin 93

much esteemed present your Most Serene Highness
hath so kindly sent me, of your excellent version of
Sallust.^

I am extremely sensible of the honor done me,
and beg you would accept my thankful acknowledg-
ments. I wish I could send hence any American
literary production worthy of your perusal; but as
yet the Muses have scarcely visited these remote re-
gions. Perhaps, however, the proceedings of our
American Congress, just published, may be a subject
of some curiosity at your court. I therefore take
the liberty of sending your Highness a copy, with
some other papers, which contain accounts of the
successes wherewith Providence has lately favored us.
Therein your wise politicians may contemplate the
first efforts of a rising state, which seems likely soon
to act a part of some importance on the stage of hu-
man affairs, and furnish materials for a future Sallust.
I am very old, and can scarce hope to see the event
of this great contest; but, looking forward, I think
I see a powerful dominion growing up here, whose
interest it will be to form a close and firm alliance
with Spain (their territories bordering), and who,
being united, will be able, not only to preserve their
own people in peace, but to repel the force of all the
other powers in Europe. It seems, therefore, pru-
dent on both sides to cultivate a good understanding,
that may hereafter be so useful to both; towards

' The famous Latin and Spanish edition of Sallust, printed in 1772,
by Ibarra, at the Royal Press in Madrid. This edition, which is an
imperial quarto, is considered by bibliographers as a masterpiece of
typography. Dibden remarks that it "is very rare, as the Prince,
Don Gabriel, reserved all the copies for presents."

94 The Works of [1775

which a fair foundation is already laid in our minds,
by the well founded popular opinion entertained here
of Spanish integrity and honor. I hope my pre-
sumption in hinting this will be pardoned. If in any
thing on this side of the globe I can render either
service or pleasure to your Royal Highness, your
commands will make me happy. With the utmost
esteem and veneration, I have the honor to be your
Serene Highness' most obedient and most humble
servant. B. Franklin.

DCIX

ARTICLES OF CONFEDERATION AND PERPETUAL UNION,
PROPOSED IN GENERAL CONGRESS ^

ARTICLE I

The name of this Confederacy shall henceforth be
The United Colonies of North America.

I The following articles exhibit the first sketch of a plan of confedera-
tion, which is known to have been presented to Congress. They seem
to have been proposed by Dr. Franklin in his individual capacity, and
not as a member of any committee. They were brought forward on
the 2ist of July, 1775. What proceedings were had in relation to them
cannot be ascertained from the journals; but it is probable, that,
after some debate, they were referred to a committee. It is worthy
of remark that, although they are dated nearly a year before the
Declaration of Independence, they could hardly be made practical, with-
out assuming the existence of an independent government. The sub-
ject of a confederation was discussed from time to time; but the plan
finally acceded to by the States was not adopted by Congress till No-
vember 15, 1777. This ultimate plan differed in many essential points
from Dr. Franklin's draft, and was more extensive. It was not ratified
by a sufficient number of States to carry it into effect till July 9, 1778,
nor by all the States till March i, 1781. — Editor.

1775] Benjamin Franklin 95

ARTICLE II

The said United Colonies hereby severally enter
into a firm league of friendship with each other, bind-
ing on themselves and their posterity, for their com-
mon defence against their enemies; for the security
of their liberties and properties; the safety of their
persons and families, and their mutual and general
welfare.

ARTICLE III

That each colony shall enjoy and retain as much
as it may think fit of its own present laws, customs,
rights, privileges, and peculiar jurisdictions within its
own limits: and may amend its own constitution, as
shall seem best to its own Assembly or Convention.

ARTICLE IV

That, for the more convenient management of gen-
eral interests, delegates shall be annually elected in
each colony, to meet in general Congress at such
time and place as shall be agreed on in the next
preceding Congress. Only where particular circum-
stances do not make a deviation necessary, it is under-
stood to be a rule that each succeeding Congress be
held in a different colony, till the whole number be
gone through; and so in perpetual rotation; and
that accordingly the next Congress after the present
shall be held at Annapolis, in Maryland.

ARTICLE v

That the power and duty of the Congress shall
extend to the determining on war and peace; the

96 The Works of [1775

entering into alliances and sending and receiving
ambassadors (the reconciliation with Great Britain) ;
the settling all disputes and differences between col-
ony and colony, about limits or any other cause, if
such should arise; and the planting of new colonies
when proper. The Congress shall also make such
general ordinances as, though necessary to the gen-
eral welfare, particular Assemblies cannot be com-
petent to, viz. : those that may relate to our general
commerce or general currency, to the establishment
of posts, and the regulation of our common forces.
The Congress shall also have the appointment of all
general officers, civil and military, appertaining to
the general Confederacy, such as general treasurer,
secretary, etc.

ARTICLE VI

All charges of wars, and all other general expenses
to be incurred for the common welfare, shall be de-
frayed out of the common treasury, which is to be sup-
plied by each colony in proportion to its number of
male polls between sixteen and sixty years of age.
The taxes for paying that proportion are to be laid
and levied by the laws of each colony.

ARTICLE VII

The number of delegates to be elected and sent to
the Congress by each colony shall be regulated, from
time to time, by the number of such polls returned;
so as that one delegate be allowed for every five
thousand polls. And the delegates are to bring with
them to every Congress an authenticated return of

T775] Benjamin Franklin 97

the number of polls in their respective provinces,
which is to be triennially taken, for the purposes
above mentioned.

ARTICLE VIII

At every meeting of the Congress, one half of the
members returned, exclusive of proxies, shall be
necessary to make a quorum; and each delegate at
the Congress shall have a vote in all cases, and, if
necessarily absent, shall be allowed to appoint any
other delegate from the same colony to be his proxy,
who may vote for him.

ARTICLE IX

An Executive Council shall be appointed by the
Congress out of their own body, consisting of twelve
persons; of whom, in the first appointment, one
third, viz. four, shall be for one year, four for two
years, and four for three years; and, as the said
terms expire, the vacancies shall be filled by appoint-
ments for three years, whereby one third of the mem-
bers will be changed annually. And each person
who has served the said term of three years as coun-
cillor, shall have a respite of three years before he
can be elected again. This Council, of whom two
thirds shall be a quorum in the recess of the Con-
gress, is to execute what shall have been enjoined
thereby; to manage the general Continental busi-
ness and interests; to receive applications from
foreign countries ; to prepare matters for the consid-
eration of the Congress; to fill up, pro tempore,
Continental offices that fall vacant, and to draw on

98 The Works of [1775

the general treasurer for such moneys as may be
necessary for general services, and appropriated by
the Congress to such services.

ARTICLE X

No colony shall engage in an offensive war with
any nation of Indians without the consent of the
Congress, or Great Council above mentioned, who
are first to consider the justice and necessity of such
war.

ARTICLE XI

A perpetual alliance, offensive and defensive, is to
be entered into as soon as may be with the Six
Nations; their limits to be ascertained and secured
to them; their land not to be encroached on, nor
any private or colony purchases made of them, here-
after to be held good; nor any contract for lands
to be made, but between the great Council of the
Indians at Onondaga and the general Congress.
The boundaries and lands of all the other Indians
shall also be ascertained and secured to them in the
same manner, and persons appointed to reside
among them in proper districts ; who shall take care
to prevent injustice in the trade with them; and be
enabled at our general expense, by occasional small
supplies, to relieve their personal wants and dis-
tresses. And all purchases from them shall be by
the Congress, for the general advantage and benefit
of the United Colonies.

ARTICLE XII

As all new institutions may have imperfections,
which only time and experience can discover, it is

1775] Benjamin Franklin 99

agreed that the general Congress, from time to time,
shall propose such amendments of this constitution
as may be found necessary ; which, being approved
by a majority of the colony Assemblies, shall be
equally binding with the rest of the articles of this
Confederation.

ARTICLE XIII

Any and every colony from Great Britain upon the
continent of North America, not at present engaged
in our association, may, upon application, and joining
the said association, be received into this Confedera-
tion, viz. : Ireland, the West India Islands, Quebec,
St. John's, Nova Scotia, Bermudas, and the East and
West Floridas; and shall thereupon be entitled to
all the advantages of our union, mutual assistance,
and commerce.

These articles shall be proposed to the several
provincial Conventions or Assemblies, to be by them
considered; and, if approved, they are advised to
empower their delegates to agree to and ratify the
same in the ensuing Congress. After which the
union thereby established is to continue firm, till
the terms of reconciliation proposed in the petition
of the last Congress to the king are agreed to ; till the
acts since made, restraining the American commerce
and fisheries, are repealed; till reparation is made
for the injury done to Boston by shutting up its port,
for the burning of Charlestown, and for the expense
of this unjust war; and till all the British troops are
withdrawn from America. On the arrival of these
events, the colonies will return to their former con-

loo The Works of [1775

nection and friendship with Britain; but, on failure
thereof, this Confederation is to be perpetual.

Whereas ' It hath pleased God to bless these coun-
tries with a most plentiful harvest, whereby-
much com and other provisions can be
spared to foreign nations who may want the
same.
Resolved, That [after the expiration of Six Months]
from (and ajterY the [20th of July Instant,] {being
one full year ajterY [being] the Day appointed by a
late Act of the Parliament of Great Britain, for re-
straining the Trade of the Confederate Colonies, all
the Custom-Houses [therein] (if the Act be not first
rescinded) shall be shut up, and all the officers of
the same discharged from the Execution of their sev-
eral Functions, and all the Ports of the said Colonies

^ The free-trade resolutions which follow are not given by Mr.
Sparks, but are printed in the Archives of New Jersey, Vol. X., p. 691.
They are here printed, however, from the original MS. in Franklin's
handwriting, preserved at the State Department in Washington.

1 append an explanatory note from Mr. Worthington Ford, of the
State Department, to whom I am indebted for the verified copy.

"Dear Sir: — As I find some differences between the articles as
printed in the New Jersey Archives (which you will see are endorsed as
being more exact than other printed copies), I have taken the original
on the enclosed sheets, giving the parts erased, and also distinguishing
the carets or interlinear words thus [ ]. The 'free-trade' resolutions
were brought in on the same day as the articles, are written on the
same paper, and all in B. F.'s MS. I am quite sure they originally
formed a part of the articles (although not numbered and placed in a
different volume in the records of the Continental Congress). They
were even endorsed 'Articles of Confederation,' though a pen was
afterwards rtm through the endorsement. Very Respectfully,

"Worthington C. Ford — Editor.

''Oct. 6, 1887."

2 The words in italics show the erasures in the original MS. — Editor,

1775] Benjamin Franklin loi

are hereby declared to be thenceforth open to the
Ships of every State in Europe that will admit om
Commerce and protect it; who may [torn off] and
expose to sale free of all Duties their respective
Produce and Manufactures, and every kind of Mer-
chandize, excepting Teas, and the Merchandize of
Great Britain, Ireland, and the British West India
Islands.

Resolved, That we will to the utmost of our
Power, maintain and support this Freedom of Com-
merce for [two] years certain after its Commence-
ment, any reconciliation between us and Britain
notwithstanding; and as much longer beyond that
Term, as the late Acts of Pariiament for restoring
the Restraining the Commerce and fisheries, and
altering the Laws and Charters of any of the Col-
onies, shall continue vmrepealed.

Endorsed— No 2. {Articles of ConfederationY A
proposal for opening the ports of N. A. bro? in by
committee— read July 21, 1775 — on motion post-
poned for future consideration.

DCX

VINDICATION AND OFFER FROM CONGRESS TO PARLIA-
MENT '

Forasmuch as the enemies of America in the Par-
liament of Great Britain, to render us odious to the

1 The words in italics show the erasures in the original MS.— Editor.

2 Dr. Franklin was put on a committee to report to Congress a
declaration to be pubhshed by General Washington, on his arrival in

I02 The Works of [1775

nation, and give an ill impression of us in the minds
of other European powers, have represented us as
unjust and ungrateful in the highest degree; assert-
ing, on every occasion, that the colonies were settled
at the expense of Britain; that they were, at the ex-
pense of the same, protected in their infancy; that
they now ungratefully and unjustly refuse to con-
tribute to their own protection, and the common
defence of the nation; that they aim at independ-
ence; that they intend an abolition of the Naviga-
tion Acts; and that they are fraudulent in their
commercial dealings, and purpose to cheat their
creditors in Britain by avoiding the payment of
their just debts ;

And as by frequent repetition these groimdless
assertions and malicious calumnies may, if not con-
tradicted and refuted, obtain further credit, and be
injurious throughout Europe to the reputation and
interest of the confederate colonies, it seems proper
and necessary to examine them in our own just
vindication.

With regard to the first, that the colonies were set-
tled at the expense of Britain, it is a known fact, that
none of the twelve imited colonies were settled, or
even discovered at the expense of England. Henry
the Seventh, indeed, granted a commission to Sebas-
tian Cabot, a Venetian, and his sons, to sail into the
western seas for the discovery of new countries ; but
it was to be '' suis eorum propriis sumptibus et ex-

camp at Cambridge in the stimmer of 1775. This paper is doubtless
one of the fruits of the discussions in that committee. It is in reply
to what Mr. Vaughan calls "a severe act of Parliament which reached
the colonies about that time."

1775] Benjamin Franklin 103

pensis,'' at their own costs and charges.' They dis-
covered, but soon shghted and neglected these
northern territories, which were, after more than a
hundred years' dereliction, purchased of the natives,
and settled at the charge and by the labor of private
men and bodies of men, our ancestors, who came
over hither for that purpose. But our adversaries
have never been able to produce any record that
ever the Parliament or government of England was
at the smallest expense on these accounts; on the
contrary, there exists on the journals of Parliament
a solemn declaration in 1642 (only twenty-two years
after the first settlement of the Massachusetts, when,
if such expense had ever been incurred, some of the
members must have known and remembered it),
"that these colonies had been planted and estab-
lished without any expense to the state.'' ^

New York is the only colony in the founding of
which England can pretend to have been at any ex-
pense; and that was only the charge of a small ar-
mament to take it from the Dutch, who planted it.
But to retain this colony at the peace, another at that
time full as valuable, planted by private countrymen
of ours, was given up by the crown to the Dutch in
exchange, viz., Surinam, now a wealthy sugar colony
in Guiana, and which, but for that cession, might

1 See the Commission in the Appendix to Pownall's Administration
of the Colonies. Edition 1775.

2 " Veneris, March 10, 1642. — Whereas, the plantations in New Eng-
land have, by the blessing of the Almighty, had good and prosperous
success, without any public charge to this state, and are now Hkely to
prove very happy for the propagation of the Gospel in those parts, and
very beneficial and commodious to this kingdom and nation; the
Commons now assembled in ParUament, etc., etc., etc."

I04 The Works of [1775

still have remained in our possession. Of late, in-
deed, Britain has been at some expense in planting
two colonies, Georgia and Nova Scotia; but those
are not in our confederacy ' ; and the expense she has
been at in their name has chiefly been in grants of
sums unnecessarily large, by way of salaries to of-
ficers sent from England, and in jobs to friends,
whereby dependants might be provided for; those
excessive grants not being requisite to the welfare
and good government of the colonies, which good
government (as experience in many instances of
other colonies has taught us) may be much more fru-
gally, and full as effectually, provided for and
supported.

With regard to the second assertion, that these
colonies were protected in their infant state by Eng-
land, it is a notorious fact that, in none of the many
wars with the Indian natives, sustained by our in-
fant settlements for a century after our first arrival,
were ever any troops or forces of any kind sent from
England to assist us ; nor were any forts built at her
expense, to secure our seaports from foreign invaders ;
nor any ships of war sent to protect our trade till
many years after our first settlement, when our com-
merce became an object of revenue, or of advantage
to British merchants ; and then it was thought neces-
sary to have a frigate in some of our ports, during
peace, to give weight to the authority of custom-
house officers, who were to restrain that commerce

I Georgia joined the other colonies soon afterwards. On the 20th of
July, 1775, a letter was i-ead in Congress from the convention of Geor-
gia, giving notice that delegates had been appointed in that colony to
attend the Continental Congress. — Editor.

1775] Benjamin Franklin 105

for the benefit of England. Our own arms, with our
poverty, and the care of a kind Providence, were all
this time our only protection; while we were neg-
lected by the English government; which either
thought us not worth its care, or having no good-
will to some of us, on accoimt of our different senti-
ments in religion and politics, was indifferent what
became of us.

On the other hand, the colonies have not been
wanting to do what they could in every war for an-
noying the enemies of Britain. They formerly as-
sisted her in the conquest of Nova Scotia. In the
war before last, they took Louisburg, and put it
into her hands. She made her peace with that
strong fortress restoring it to France, greatly to
their detriment. In the last war, it is true, Britain
sent a fleet and army, which acted with an equal
army of ours, in the reduction of Canada; and
perhaps thereby did more for us than we in the pre-
ceding wars had done for her. Let it be remem-
bered, however, that she rejected the plan we
formed in the Congress at Albany, in 1754, for our
own defence, by a union of the colonies; a union
she was jealous of, and therefore chose to send her
own forces ; otherwise her aid to protect us was not
wanted. And from our first settlement to that
time, her military operations in our favor were small,
compared with the advantages she drew from her ex-
clusive commerce with us. We are, however, willing
to give full weight to this obligation ; and as we are
daily growing stronger, and our assistance to her be-
comes of more importance, we should with pleasure

io6 The Works of [1775

embrace the first opportunity of showing our grati-
tude by returning the favor in kind.

But, when Britain values herself as affording us
protection, we desire it may be considered, that we
have followed her in all her wars, and joined with her
at our own expense against all she thought fit to
quarrel with. This she has required of us; and
would never permit us to keep peace with any power
she declared her enemy ; though by separate treaties
we might well have done it. Under such circum-
stances, when at her instance we made nations our
enemies, whom we might otherwise have retained
our friends, we submit it to the common-sense of man-
kind, whether her protection of us in these wars was
not our JMst due, and to be claimed of right, instead
of being received as a favor? And whether, when all
parts of an empire exert themselves to the utmost in
their common defence, and in annoying the common
enemy, it is not as well the parts that protect the
whole, as the whole that protects the parts? The
protection then has been proportionably mutual.
And whenever the time shall come, that our abilities
may as far exceed hers, as hers have exceeded ours,
we hope we shall be reasonable enough to rest satis-
fied with her proportionable exertions, and not think
we do too much for a part of the empire, when that
part does as much as it can for the whole.

The charge against us, that we refuse to contribute
to our own protection, appears from the above to be
groundless ; but we further declare it to be absolutely
false ; for it is well known that we ever held it as our
duty to grant aids to the crown, upon requisition,

17751 Benjamin Franklin 107

towards carrying on its wars; which duty we have
cheerfiilly complied with to the utmost of our abil-
ities ; insomuch that frequent and grateful acknowl-
edgments thereof, by king and Parliament, appear on
the records.' But as Britain has enjoyed a most
gainful monopoly of our commerce, the same, with
our maintaining the dignity of the king's representa-
tive in each colony, and all our own separate estab-
lishments of government, civil and military, has ever
hitherto been deemed an equivalent for such aids as
might otherwise be expected from us in time of
peace. And we hereby declare that on a reconcilia-
tion with Britain we shall not only continue to grant
aids in time of war as aforesaid, but whenever she
shall think fit to abolish her monopoly, and give us
the same privileges of trade as Scotland received at
the union, and allow us a free commerce with all the
rest of the world, we shall willingly agree (and we
doubt not it will be ratified by our constituents) to
give and pay into the sinking fund [one hundred
thousand pounds] sterling per annum for the term of
one hundred years; which duly, faithfully, and in-
violably applied for that purpose, is demonstrably
more than sufficient to extinguish all her present
national debt; since it will in that time amount, at
legal British interest, to more than [two hundred and
thirty millions of pounds.^]

1 Supposed to allude to certain passages in the journals of the House
of Commons on the 4th of April, 1748; 28th of January, 1756; 3d of
February, 1756; 16 and 19 of May, 1757; ist of June, 1758; 26th and
30th of April, 1759; 26th and 31st of March, and 28th of April, 1760;
9th and 20th of January, 1761; 22d and 26th of January, 1762; and
14th and 17th of March, 1763. — B. V.

2 See Dr. Price's Appeal on the National Debt. — B. V.

io8 The Works of [1775

But if Britain does not think fit to accept this
proposition, we, in order to remove her groundless
jealousies, that we aim at independence, and an aboli-
tion of the Navigation Act (which hath in truth never
been our intention), and to avoid all future disputes
about the right of making that and other acts for
regulating our commerce, do hereby declare our-
selves ready and willing to enter into a covenant with
Britain, that she shall fully possess, enjoy, and exer-
cise that right for a hundred years to come, the same
being bona fide used for the common benefit ; and, in
case of such agreement, that every Assembly be ad-
vised by us to confirm it solemnly by laws of their
own, which, once made, cannot be repealed without
the assent of the crown.

The last charge, that we are dishonest traders, and
aim at defrauding our creditors in Britain, is suffi-
ciently and authentically refuted by the solemn de-
clarations of the British merchants to Parliament
(both at the time of the Stamp Act and in the last
session), who bore ample testimony to the general
good faith and fair dealing of the Americans, and de-
clared their confidence in our integrity, for which we
refer to their petitions on the journals of the House
of Commons. And we presume we may safely call
on the body of the British tradesmen, who have had
experience of both, to say whether they have not
received much more ptinctual payment from us, than
they generally have from the members of their own
two Houses of Parliament.

On the whole of the above it appears that the
charge of ingratitude towards the mother coimtry,

1775] Benjamin Franklin 109

brought with so much confidence against the col-
onies, is totally without foundation; and that there
is much more reason for retorting that charge on
Britain, who, not only never contributes any aid, nor
affords, by an exclusive commerce, any advantages to
Saxony, her mother country, but, no longer since
than in the last war, without the least provocation,
subsidized the king of Prussia while he ravaged that
mother country and carried fire and sword into its
capital, the fine city of Dresden' An example we
hope no provocation will induce us to imitate.

DCXI

THE BRITISH NATION, AS IT APPEARED TO THE COLO-
NISTS IN 1775 ^

" Whereas, The British nation, through great cor-
ruption of manners and extreme dissipation and
profusion, both private and public, have foimd all
honest resources insufficient to supply their exces-
sive luxury and prodigality, and thereby have been
driven to the practice of every injustice which
avarice could dictate or rapacity execute; And
whereas, not satisfied with the immense plimder of
the East, obtained by sacrificing millions of the
human species, they have lately turned their eyes
to the West, and grudging us the peaceable enjoy-
ment of the fruits of our hard labor and virtuous
industry, have for years past been endeavoring to

' The draft resolution was found among Dr. Franklin's papers. If
prepared with the intent to have it adopted by Congress, which is im-
probable, the author changed his mind, for it was never offered.

iio The Works of [1776

extort the same from us under color of laws regu-
lating trade, and have thereby actually succeeded in
draining us of large sums to our great loss and detri-
ment; And whereas, impatient to seize the whole,
they have at length proceeded to open robbery,
declaring, by a solemn act of Parliament, that all
our estates are theirs, and all our property found
upon the sea divisible among such of their armed
plunderers as shall take the same; and have even
dared in the same act, to declare that all the spoil-
ings, thefts, burnings of houses and towns, and mur-
ders of innocent people, perpetrated by their wicked
and inhuman corsairs on our coasts, previous to any
war declared against us, were just actions, and shall
be so deemed, contrary to several commandments of
God (which by this act they presume to repeal), and
to all the principles of right and all the ideas of
justice entertained heretofore by every other nation,
savage as well as civilized ; thereby manifesting them-
selves to be hostes humani generis; And whereas, as
it is not possible for the people of America to subsist
under such continual ravages without making some
reprisals; Therefore, Resolved, etc."

DCXII

TO CHARLES LEE ^

Philadelphia, h February, 1776.

Dear Sir: — The bearer, M. Arundel, is directed
by the Congress to repair to General Schuyler, in

^ General Charles Lee was at this time in the command of New York,
and was engaged in constructing works of defence.

1776] Benjamin Franklin m

order to be employed by him in the artillery service.
He proposes to wait on you upon his way, and has
requested me to introduce him by a line to you. He
has been an officer in the French service, as you will
see by his commissions; and, professing a good will
to our cause, I hope he may be useful in instructing
our gunners and matrosses. Perhaps he may advise
in opening the nailed cannon. I received the en-
closed the other day, from an officer, Mr. Newland,
who served in the two last wars, and was known by
General Gates, who spoke well of him to me when I
was at Cambridge. He is desirous now of entering
into your service. I have advised him to wait upon
you at New York.

They still talk big in England and threaten hard;
but their language is somewhat civiler, at least not
quite so disrespectful to us. By degrees they come
to their senses, but too late, I fancy, for their interest.

We have got a large quantity of saltpetre, one
hundred and twenty tons, and thirty more expected.
Powder-mills are now wanting. I believe we must
set to work to make it by hand. But I still wish,
with you, that pikes could be introduced, and I
would add bows and arrows. These were good
weapons, not wisely laid aside :

I St. Because a man may shoot as truly with a bow
as with a common musket.

2dly. He can discharge four arrows in the time of
charging and discharging one bullet.

3dly. His object is not taken from his view by the
smoke of his own side.

4thly. A flight of arrows seen coming upon them,

112 The Works of [1776

terrifies and disturbs the enemies' attention to their
business.

5thly. An arrow sticking in any part of a man puts
him hors du combat till it is extracted.

6thly. Bows and arrows are more easily provided
everywhere than muskets and ammunition.

Polydore Virgil, speaking of one of our battles
against the French in Edward the Third's reign,
mentions the great confusion the enemy was thrown
into, sagtttarum nube, from the English; and con-
cludes: Est res profecto dictu mirabilis, ut tantus ac
potens exercitus a soils fere Anglicis sagittariis victus
fuerit; adeo Anglus est sagittipotens, et id genus ar-
morum valet. If so much execution was done by
arrows when men wore some defensive armor, how
much more might be done now that it is out of use.
I am glad you are come to New York, but I also
wish you could be in Canada. There is a kind of
suspense in men's minds here at present, waiting to
see what terms will be offered from England. I
expect none that we can accept; and when that is
generally seen, we shall be more imanimous and more
decisive. Then your proposed solemn league and
covenant will go better down, and perhaps most of
your other strong measures will be adopted. I am
always glad to hear from you, but I do not deserve
your favors, being so bad a correspondent. My eyes
will now hardly serve me to write by night, and
these short days have been all taken up by such a
variety of business, that I seldom can sit down ten
minutes without interruption. God give you success.
I am with the greatest esteem, etc., B. Franklin.

1776] Benjamin Franklin 113

DCXIII

TO CHARLES LEE

Philadelphia, 19 February 1776.

Dear Sir:— I rejoice that you are going to Canada.
I hope the gout will not have the courage to follow
you into that severe climate. I believe you will have
the number of men you wish for. I am told there
will be two thousand more, but there are always
deficiencies. '

The bearer, Mr. Paine, has requested a line of in-
troduction to you, which I give the more willingly, as
I know his sentiments are not very different from
yours. He is the reputed, and, I think, the real
author of "Common Sense," a pamphlet that has
made great impression here. I do not enlarge, both
because he waits, and because I hope for the pleasure
of conferring with you face to face in Canada. I will
only add that we are assured here, on the part of
France, that the troops sent to the West Indies have
no inimical views to us or our cause. It is thought
they intend a war without a previous declaration.
God prosper all your undertakings, and return you
with health, honor, and happiness.

Yours most affectionately, B. Franklin.

' Congress had ordered General Lee to Canada, but he was sent to
the south.

114 The Works of [1776

DCXIV

FROM DAVID HARTLEY ^

London, 24 February, 1776.

Dear Sir: — It is so long since I have had the
pleasure of hearing from you, that I fear the ad-
ministration has but too effectually stopped the
channel of communication between this country
and its colonies. I have always dreaded this event,
as fatal and final to the prospect of a national recon-
ciliation. When, in any contention, the parties are
not only studiously kept asunder, but mischief-
making go-betweens exert every art, and practise
every fraud, to inflame jealousies, animosities, and
resentments between them, it is but too obvious to
fear, that your own prophetic words should be ac-
compHshed; that, instead of that cordial affection,
which once and so long existed, and that harmony
so suitable to the happiness, safety, strength, and
welfare of both coimtries, a mutual hatred, such as
we see subsisting between the Spaniards and Por-
tuguese, the Genoese and Corsicans, should fatally
take root between the parent state and its colonies.

These fears are not abated by the consideration
of the incessant injuries, which have been, and which
continue to be, heaped upon our unhappy fellow-
subjects in America. These injuries are, indeed,
brought upon them by the administration, who

I The original of this letter is in the handwriting of David Hartley,
but signed "G. B.," a signature which Mr. Hartley affixed to many
of his letters to Dr. Franklin, written during the revolution. Mr.
Hartley was a member of Pariiament, and opposed to the ministerial
measures in regard to America. — Sparks.

1776] Benjamin Franklin 115

usurp the authority, which they pretend to derive
from the people; but, from the distance between
us and our American brethren, and the false evi-
dence transmitted from one to the other, I greatly
fear that national resentments will become indiscrim-
inate. It is inseparable from human nature, that
the mind, under any grievous suffering, especially
injury, will be distracted and broken from its nearest
connections, which may happen to be but accident-
ally involved. The affection of states to each other
consists of the combination of personal affections,
parentage, and intercourse. When blood is shed,
and the parent weeps for his son, the widow for her
husband, brother for brother, an inextinguishable
resentment arises. Those unfortunates who have
lost their relatives and friends, become furious ; and
in those who have them yet to lose, horrors and fears
take place of and drive out affection; the bonds of
attachment are let loose, and all the tumultuous
passions are set afloat.

I know that you are as sensible of these conse-
quences as any one can be. You have foreseen
them afar off. You have predicted them; you have
done every thing in your power to soften animos-
ities, and to put off the evil day. I hope still, that
you will not despair. Your age, experience, char-
acter, humanity, and example of moderation in
disregarding those injuries and insults which have
been offered to yourself, give you the best title to
plead with your countrymen to suspend their re-
sentments, to discriminate those who have not
injured them, and to remember the ties of affection

ii6 The Works of [1776

between themselves and their fellow-subjects in
England. I see the influence of your counsels in
the Congress. I see the distinction clearly made be-
tween the ministry and the people of England; but
I fear that, at the same time, the seeds of jealousy
are struggling to break out.

The address from the Congress to the Assembly of
Jamaica speaks of the people of England as dissi-
pated and corrupt. The people of England are far
otherwise. They are just and generous; and, if it
were put to the sense of the people of England, you
would not be left in any doubt whether it was want
of will, or want of power; to do you justice. You
know the blot of our constitution, by which, to our
disgrace, and to your misfortune, a corrupt ministry,
sheltered by Parliamentary influence, are out of our
immediate control. A day of accoimt may come,
when the justice of the nation may prevail; and
if it comes not too late, it may prove a day of recon-
ciliation and cordial reunion between us and America.
The trial is with you, to suspend your resentments
from becoming indiscriminate; and a great trial
it is. I cannot tell you what efforts the ministry
have in their purpose to try. I am amazed at their
headstrong hardiness to proceed in an undertaking,
which gives them so little prospect of success.

Many of your best friends in England regret that
the Congress has not made some specific and definite
proposition upon which the sense of the people of
England might have been consulted. A people at
large cannot enter into historical details, especially
when facts are so studiously confounded and mis-

1776] Benjamin Franklin 117

represented, but still they could judge of a simple
proposition. If any such had been made, I think
it would have been the most likely method to capti-
vate the good-will of the nation. While the propo-
sitions of the Congress are general and indefinite,
the ministry treat them as general words, meaning
little or nothing in fact. But, I think, the further
prosecution of hostile measures could not be sup-
ported by the ministry, if they were to refuse any
definite and equitable offer of accommodation, made
on the part of America. If it be possible, let the
two countries be once more reunited in affection. It
is not simply peace that we ought to strive for, but
reconciliation, which is more than peace. We may
have peace with foreign states, but it must be recon-
ciliation alone that can reunite us as one people.
However forlorn the prospect may be, let not the
common friends slacken their endeavors. Con-
stancy is our only hope. All is lost if we despair. I
am, dear sir, with the greatest regard and esteem,
affectionately yours, G. B.

DCXV

TO PHILIP SCHUYLER ^

Philadelphia, ii March, 1776.

Sir: — The Congress have appointed three com-
missioners to go to Canada, of which number I have

^ General Schuyler had at this time the command of the northern
department, and of the army operating in Canada.

ii8 The Works of [1776

the honor to be one.^ We purpose setting out some
day this week. I take the hberty of mentioning
this, as possibly a httle previous notice may enable

I On the 27th of March, 1776, Congress appointed Dr. Franklin,
Samuel Chase, and Charles Carroll, as Commissioners for the Colonies
to "promote or form a union between the said Colonies and the people
of Canada." John Carroll, a Jesuit priest, afterwards the first Roman-
ist archbishop in America, was invited by Congress to accompany
them, for the sake of his influence over a population composed of
less than one Protestant to one thousand Romanists.

An American army was then in Canada.

Among the papers preserved in the first volume of the Transactions
of the Maryland Historical Society, is a diary kept by Charles Carroll
during this expedition. His account of the voyage of the commis-
sioners from New York as far up the river as Po'keepsie, furnishes a
curious and impressive standard by which to estimate the changes
wrought in the speed and comfort of travel on the Hudson during the
succeeding hundred years. A journey which occupied these gentle-
men four days, would now occupy less than as many hours. The
commissioners reached Montreal on the 29th, consuming on their
jotimey from New York 27 days.

Journal of Charles Carroll, of Carrollton, during his Visit to Canada, in
1776, as one of the Commissioners from Congress.

April 2d, 1776. — Left New York at 5 o'clock, p. m. Sailed up
North River, or Hudson, that afternoon about thirteen miles. About
I o'clock in the night were awakened by the firing of cannon; heard
three great gtms distinctly from the Asia: soon saw a great fire, which
we presvmied to be a house on Bedloe's Island, set on fire by a detach-
ment of our troops. InteUigence had been received that the enemy
were throwing up intrenchments on that island, and it had been
determined by our generals to drive them ofif. Dr. FrankUn went
upon deck, and saw wavering flashes of light appearing suddenly
and disappearing, which he conjectured to be the fire of musquetry,
although he could not hear the report.

3d. — A bad rainy day; wind northeast; a. m. 11 o'clock, opposite
to Col. PhilUpp's (a tory); pretty situation near the river; a garden
sloping down to it; house has a pretty appearance; a church at little
distance on the south side, surrounded by cedar trees. The banks of
the river on the western side exceedingly steep and rocky; pine trees
growing amidst the rocks. On the eastern or New York side the banks
are not near so steep; they decline pretty gradually to the water's
edge. The river is straight hitherto. About five o'clock the wind
breezed up from the south; got under way and ran with a pretty

1776] Benjamin Franklin 119

you more easily to make any preparation you shall
judge necessary to facilitate and expedite our jour-
ney, which I am sure you will be kindly disposed to

easy gale as far as the Highlands, forty miles from New York. The
river here is greatly contracted, and the lands on each side very
lofty. When we got into this strait the wind increased, and blew
in violent flaws; in doubling one of these steep craggy points we
were in danger of running on the rocks; endeavored to double the
cape called St. Anthony's Nose, but all our efforts proved ineffectual;
obliged to retwrn some way back in the straits to seek shelter; in
doing this our mainsail was split to pieces by a sudden and most
violent blast of wind off the mountains. Came to anchor; blew a
perfect storm all night and all day the fourth. Remained all day
(the fourth) in Thunder Hill bay, about a mile below St. Anthony's
Nose, and a quarter of a mile from Thunder Hill. Our crew were
employed all this day in repairing the mainsail. The country round
about the bay has a wild and romantic appearance. The hills are
almost perpendicularly steep, and covered with rocks and trees of a
small size. The hill called St. Anthony's Nose is said to be full of
sulphur. I make no doubt this place has experienced some violent
convulsion from subterraneous fire; the steepness of the hills, their
correspondence, the narrowness of the river, and its depth, all confirm
me in this opinion.

5th. — Wind at northeast, mainsail not yet repaired. Sailed about
12 o'clock from Thunder Hill bay; just before we doubled Cape
Anthony's Nose, Mr. Chase and I landed to examine a beautiful fall
of water. Mr. Chase, very apprehensive of the leg of mutton being
boiled too much, impatient to get on board; wind breezing up, we
had near a mile to row to overtake the vessel. As soon as we doubled
Cape St. Anthony's Nose a beautiful prospect opened on us. The
river from this place to Constitution Fort, bmlt on Martler's Rock,
forms a fine canal, surrounded with high hills of various shapes; one
in particular resembles a sugar loaf, and is so called. About three
miles from Cape St. Anthony's Nose is another beautiful cascade
called "the Buttermilk." This is formed by a rivulet which flows
from a lake on the top of a neighboring mountain ; this lake, we were
told, abotinds with trout and perch. Arrived about five o'clock at
Constitution Fort. Mr. Chase went with me on shore to visit the fort ;
it is built on a rock called Martler's Rock; the river at this place
makes a sudden bend to the west; the battery (for it does not deserve
the name of a fort, being quite open on the northeast side) has two
flanks, one fronting the south, and the other the west. On the south
flank were planted thirteen six- and one nine-poimder; on the west

I20 The Works of [1776

do for us. A friend with us will make our company
four, besides our servants. We shall either go in
carriages directly to Albany, or by water if the river
is open from New York. Hoping soon for the pleas-
ure of seeing you, I now only add that I am, with the
sincerest respect and esteem, sir, etc., B. Franklin.

flank seven nine-pounders and one six-pounder; but there were no
cannoniers in the fort, and only one hundred and two men fit to do
duty; they intend to erect another battery on an eminence called
Gravel Hill, which will command vessels coming up the river as soon
as they double Cape St. Anthony's Nose. A little above this cape a
battery is projected to annoy the enemy's vessels, to be called Fort
Montgomery ; they intend another battery lower down the river and a
little below Cape St. Anthony's Nose. In the Highlands are many
convenient spots to construct batteries on, but in order to make
them answer the intended purpose, weighty metal should be placed
on these batteries and skilful gixnners shovdd be engaged to serve the
artillery. About 9 o'clock at night, the tide making, we weighed
anchor, and came to again about 6 o'clock in the morning, the 6th
instant. The river is remarkably deep all the way through the
Highlands, and the tide rapid. When we came to an anchor off
Constitution Fort we found the depth of water about thirty fathoms.
These Highlands present a number of romantic views, the steep hills
overshadow the water, and in some places the rocks, should they be
rolled down, would fall into the river, several feet from the banks on
which they stood. This river seems by nature intended to open a
communication between Canada and the Province of New York by
water, and, by some great convulsion, a passage has been opened by
the waters of the Hudson River through the Highlands. These
are certainly a sptir of the endless mountains.

6th. — Weighed anchor about seven o'clock in the morning; had a
fine breeze; the country more cultivated above the Highlands;
passed several mills, all of them overshot; saw two frigates on the
stocks at Pokeepsay, building for the service of the United Colonies:
saw a great many lime kilns in our rxm this morning on both sides of
the river, the banks of which begin to slope more gradually to the
water's edge. We wrote to General Heath from off Constitution Fort,
and sent the letter to the commanding officer of the fort, with orders
to forward it by express immediately to the General at New York.
The purport of the letter was to inform the General of the very de-
fenceless condition of the fort, that measures might be immediately
taken to put it in a better posture of defence.

1776] Benjamin Franklin 121

P. S. — The bearer, M. La Jeunesse, has been con-
sidered by the Congress as a friend to the American
cause, and he is recommended to your protection on
his return to Canada.

DCXVI

TO LORD STIRLING '

Brunswick, 27 March, 1776.

My Dear Lord: — I received your obhging letter
some days since at Philadelphia; but our departure
from thence being so uncertain, I could not till now
acquaint your lordship when we expected to be at
New York. We move but slowly, and I think we
shall scarce reach Newark before to-morrow, so that
we cannot have the pleasure of seeing you before
Friday. Being myself, from long absence, as much
a stranger in New York as the other gentlemen, we
join in requesting you would be so good as to cause
lodgings to be provided for us, and a sloop engaged
to carry us to Albany. There are five of us, and we
propose staying in New York two nights at least.
With great and sincere esteem and respect, I have
the honor to be, etc., B. Franklin.

^ Brigadier-general in the American army, and stationed at New
York, where, for a short time, he had the chief command, after the de-
parttire of General Lee.

122 The Works of [1776

DCXVII

TO JOSIAH QUINCY

Saratoga, 15 April, 1776.

Dear Sir: — I am here on my way to Canada,
detained by the state of the lakes, in which the
unthawed ice obstructs navigation. I begin to ap-
prehend that I have undertaken a fatigue that at
my time of hfe may prove too much for me; so
I sit down to write to a few friends by way of farewell.

I congratulate you on the departure of your late
troublesome neighbors. I hope your country will
now for some time have rest, and that care will be
taken so to fortify Boston, as that no force shall be
able again to get footing there. Your very kind
letter of November 13th, inclosing Lord Chatham's
and Lord Camden's speeches, I duly received. I
think no one can be more sensible than I am of the
favors of corresponding friends, but I find it impos-
sible to answer as I ought. At present I think you
will deem me inexcusable, and therefore I will not at-
tempt an apology. But if you should ever happen
to be at the same time oppressed with years and busi-
ness, you may then extenuate a little for your old
friend.

The notes of the speeches taken by your son,
whose loss I shall ever deplore with you, are exceed-
ingly valuable, as being by much the best account
preserved of that day's debate.*

You ask: "When is the Continental Congress by

^ Notes of speeches made by Lord Chatham, Lord Camden, and
others, in the British House of Lords, January 20, 1775. See Life of
Josiah Quincy, Junior, pp. 318, 335.

1776] Benjamin Franklin 123

general consent to be formed into a supreme legisla-
ture; alliances, defensive and offensive, formed; our
ports opened, and a formidable naval force estab-
lished at the public charge?" I can only answer,
at present, that nothing seems wanting but that
"general consent." The novelty of the thing deters
some ; the doubt of success, others ; the vain hope of
reconciliation, many. But otir enemies take con-
tinually every proper measure to remove these ob-
stacles, and their endeavors are attended with
success, since every day furnishes us with new causes
of increasing enmity, and new reasons for wishing
an eternal separation, so that there is a rapid in-
crease of the formerly small party, who were for an
independent government.

Your epigram on Lord Chatham's remark has am-
ply repaid me for the song. Accept my thanks for
it, and for the charming extract of a lady's letter,
contained in your favor of January 2 2d. I thought,
when I sat down, to have written by this opportunity
to Dr. Cooper, Mr. Bowdoin, and Dr. Winthrop, but
I am interrupted. Be so good as to present my af-
fectionate respects to them, and to your family.
Adieu, my dear friend, and believe me ever yours
most affectionately, B. Franklin.

DCXVIII

TO PHILIP SCHUYLER

New York, 27 May, 1776.

Dear General: — We arrived here safe yesterday
evening in your post-chaise, driven by Lewis. I was

124 The Works of [1776

unwilling to give so much trouble, and would have
borrowed your sulky, and driven myself; but good
Mrs. Schuyler insisted on a full compliance with your
pleasure, as signified in your letter, and I was obliged
to submit, which I was afterwards very glad of,
part of the road being very stony and much gullied,
where I should probably have overset and broken my
own bones, all the skill and dexterity of Lewis being
no more than sufficient. Through the influence of
your kind recommendation to the innkeepers on the
road, we found a great readiness to supply us with
a change of horses. Accept our thankful acknow-
ledgments; they are all we can at present make.

We congratulate you on the very valuable prize
made at Boston. They threaten us with a mighty
force from England and Germany. I trust that
before the end of the campaign its inefficacy will be
apparent to all the world, our enemies become sick
of their projects, and the freedom of America be
established on the surest foundation — its own ability
to defend it. May God bless, and preserve you, for
all our own sakes as well as for that of your dear
family! Mr. Carroll joins me in every hearty wish
for prosperity and felicity to you and yours. With
the highest esteem and respect I am, dear sir, etc.,

B. Franklin.

1776] Benjamin Franklin 125

DCXIX

TO THE COMMISSIONERS IN CANADA '

New York, 27 May, 1776.

Dear Friends: — We arrived here safe yesterday
evening, having left Mrs. Walker with her husband
at Albany, from whence we came down by land. We
passed him on Lake Champlain; but he returning
overtook us at Saratoga, where they both took such
liberties, in taunting at our conduct in Canada, that
it came almost to a quarrel. We continued our care
of her, however, and landed her safe in Albany with
her three wagon loads of baggage, brought thither
without putting her to any expense, and parted
civilly, though coldly. I think they both have an
excellent talent at making themselves enemies, and
I believe, live where they will, they will never be long
without them.

We met yesterday two officers from Philadelphia,
with a letter from the Congress to the Commissioners,
and a sum of hard money. I opened the letter, and
sealed it again, directing them to carry it forward to
you. I congratulate you on the great prize carried
into Boston. Seventy-five tons of gunpowder are an
excellent supply, and the thousand carbines with
bayonets, another fine article. The German auxil-
iaries are certainly coming. It is our business to
prevent their returning. The Congress have ad-
vised the erecting new governments, which has

I The condition of Dr. Franklin's health compelled him to leave
Canada before the other Commissioners returned, with the Reverend
Mr. Carroll.

126 The Works of [1776

occasioned some dissension in Philadelphia, but I
hope it will soon be composed.'

I shall be glad to hear of your welfare. As to my-
self, I find I grow daily more feeble, and think I
could hardly have got along so far, but for Mr. Car-
roll's friendly assistance and tender care of me.
Some symptoms of the gout now appear, which make
me think my indisposition has been a smothered fit
of that disorder, which my constitution wanted
strength to form completely. I have had several
fits of it formerly.

God bless you and prosper your counsels, and
bring you safe again to your friends and families.
With the greatest esteem and respect, I am, etc.,

B. Franklin.

DCXX

TO GEORGE WASHINGTON

Philadelphia, 22 July, 1776.

Sir: — The bearer, Mr. Joseph Belton, some time
since petitioned the Congress for encouragement to
destroy the enemy's ships of war by some contriv-
ance of his invention. They came to no conclusion
on his petition; and, as they appear to have no great
opinion of such proposals, it is not easy, in the mul-

I It was resolved in Congress, "That it be recommended to the
respective Assemblies and Conventions of the United Colonies, where
no government siifficient for the exigencies of their affairs has been
hitherto established, to adopt such form of government as shall, in the
opinion of the representatives of the people, best conduce to the
happiness and safety of their constituents in particular, and America
in general." — Journals, May loth.

1776] Benjamin Franklin 127

tiplicity of business before them, to get them to be-
stow any part of their attention on his request. He
is now desirous of trying his hand on the ships that
are gone up the North River ; and, as he proposes to
work entirely at his own expense, and only desires
your countenance and permission, I could not refuse
his desire of a line of introduction to you, the trouble
of which I beg you to excuse. As he appears to be
a very ingenious man, I hope his project may be
attended with success. With the sincerest esteem
and respect, I have the honor to be, etc.,

B. Franklin.

DCXXI

TO HORATIO GATES

Philadelphia, 28 August, 1776.

Dear Sir: — The Congress being advised, that
there was a probability that the Hessians might be
induced to quit the British service by offers of land,
came to two resolves for this purpose, which, being
translated into German and printed, are sent to
Staten Island to be distributed, if practicable, among
those people. Some of them have tobacco marks on
the back, that so tobacco being put up in them in
small quantities, as the tobacconists use, and suffered
to fall into the hands of these people, they might
divide the papers as plimder, before their officers
could come to the knowledge of the contents, and
prevent their being read by the men. That was
the first resolve. A second has since been made for

128 The Works of [1776

the officers themselves. I am desired to send some
of both sorts to you, that, if you find it practicable,
you may convey them among the Germans that
shall come against you.

The Congress continue firmly united, and we begin
to distress the enemy's trade very much ; many valu-
able prizes being continually brought in. Arms and
ammunition are also continually arriving, the French
having resolved to permit the exportation to us, as
they heartily wish us success ; so that in another year
we shall be well provided.

As you may not have .seen Dr. Price's excellent
pamphlet, for writing which the city of London pre-
sented him a freedom in a gold box of fifty pounds'
value, I send you one of them.

My last advices from England say that the minis-
try have done their utmost in fitting out this arma-
ment, and that if it fails they cannot find means
next year to go on with the war. While I am writ-
ing comes an account that the armies were engaged
on Long Island, the event unknown, which throws us
into anxious suspense. God grant success. I am,
etc., B. Franklin.

DCXXII

SKETCH OF PROPOSITIONS FOR A PEACE '

There shall be a perpetual peace between Great
Britain and the United States of America, on the
following conditions.

* On the 26th of September, 1776, Dr. Franklin was appointed one
of the Commissioners from Congress to the Court of France. Before

1776] Benjamin Franklin 129

Great Britain shall renounce and disclaim all pre-
tence of right or authority to govern in any of the
United States of America.

To prevent those occasions of misunderstanding,
which are apt to arise where the territories of different
.powers border on each other, through the bad con-
duct of frontier inhabitants on both sides, Britain
shall cede to the United States the provinces or
colonies of Quebec, St. John's, Nova Scotia, Ber-
muda, East and West Florida, and the Bahama
Islands, with all their adjoining and intermediate
territories now claimed by her.

In return for this cession, the United States shall

pay to Great Britain the sum of sterling,

in annual payments ; that is to say, per annum,

for and during the terms of years,

And shall, moreover, grant a free trade to all Brit-
ish subjects throughout the United States and the
ceded colonies, and shall guarantee to Great Britain
the possession of her islands in the West Indies,

Motives for Proposing a Peace at This Time

1. The having such propositions in charge will, by
the law of nations, be some protection to the com-
missioners or ambassadors, if they should be taken.

2. As the news of our declared independence will
tend to unite in Britain all parties against us, so our

his departure he sketched a brief outHne of the terms upon which he
supposed a peace might be made with Great Britain, in case an op-
portunity for a negotiation should offer. His propositions were sub-
mitted to the secret committee of Congress but no occasion presented
itself for using them.

I30 The Works of [1776

offering peace, with commerce and payments of
money, will tend to divide them again. For peace is
as necessary to them as to us; our commerce is
wanted by their merchants and manufacturers, who
will therefore incline to the accommodation, even
though the monopoly is not continued, since it can be
easily made to appear their share of our growing
trade will soon be greater than the whole has been
heretofore. Then, for the landed interest, who wish
an alleviation of taxes, it is demonstrable by figures,
that, if we should agree to pay, suppose ten millions
in one hundred years, viz., one hundred thousand
pounds per annum for that term, it would, being
faithfully employed as a sinking fund, more than pay
off all their present national debt. It is, besides, a
prevailing opinion in England, that they must in the
nature of things sooner or later lose the colonies, and
many think they had better be without the govern-
ment of them; so that the proposition will, on that
account, have more supporters and fewer opposers.

3. As the having such propositions to make, or any
powers to treat of peace, will furnish a pretence for
B. F.'s going to England, where he has many friends
and acquaintances, particularly among the best
writers and ablest speakers in both Houses of Par-
liament, he thinks he shall be able when there, if
the terms are not accepted, to work up such a divi-
sion of sentiments in the nation, as greatly to weaken
its exertions against the United States, and lessen its
credit in foreign countries.

4. The knowledge of there being powers given to
the commissioners to treat with England, may have

1776] Benjamin Franklin 131

some effect in facilitating and expediting the pro-
posed treaty with France.

5. It is worth our while to offer such a sum for the
countries to be ceded, since the vacant lands will in
time sell for a great part of what we shall give, if not
more; and, if we are to obtain them by conquest,
after perhaps a long war, they will probably cost us
more than that sum. It is absolutely necessary for
us to have them for our own security; and though
the sum may seem large to the present generation,
in less than half the term it will be to the whole
United States a mere trifle.

DCXXIII

TO PHILIP MAZZEI

Philadelphia. [Date uncertain.]

Dear Sir: — It was with great pleasure that I
learned from Mr. Jefferson that you were settled
in America; and, from the letter you favored me
with, that you liked the country, and have reasons
to expect success in your laudable and meritorious
endeavors to introduce new products. I heartily
wish you all the success you can desire in that,
and every other laudable undertaking that may con-
duce to your comfortable establishment in your
present situation. I know not how it has happened
that you have not received an answer from the secre-
tary of our society. I suppose they must have
written, and that it has miscarried. If you have not

132 The Works of [1776

yet sent the books which the Academy of Turin have
done us the honor to present us with, we must, I
fear, wait for more quiet times before we can have
the pleasure of receiving them, the communication
being now very difficult.

All America is obliged to the Grand Duke for
his benevolence to it, and for the protection he
afforded you, and his encouragement of your under-
taking. We have experienced that silk may be pro-
duced to great advantage. While in London I had
some trunks full sent to me from hence, three years
successively; and it sold by auction for nineteen
shillings and sixpence the small pound, which was
not much below the silk of Italy.

The Congress have not yet extended their views
much towards foreign powers. They are neverthe-
less obliged by your kind offers of your service, which
perhaps in a year or two more may become very use-
ful to them. I am myself much pleased that you
have sent a translation of our Declaration of Inde-
pendence to the Grand Duke ; because, having a high
esteem for the character of that prince, and of the
whole imperial family, from the accounts given me of
them by my friend. Dr. Ingenhousz and yourself, I
should be happy to find that we stood well in the
opinion of that court.

Mr. Tromond of Milan, with whom I had the
pleasure of being acquainted in London, spoke to me
of a plant much used in Italy, and which he thought
might be useful in America. He promised, at my
request, to find me some of the seeds, which he has
accordingly done. I have unfortunately forgotten

[776] Benjamin Franklin

i^"^

the use and know nothing of the culture. In both
these particulars I must beg information and advice
from you. It is called ravizzoni. I send specimens
of the seed inclosed. I received from the same Mr.
Tromond four copies of a translation of some of my
pieces into the fine language of your native country.
I beg your acceptance of one of them, and of my
best wishes for your health and prosperity. With
great esteem, I have the honor to be, etc.,

B. Franklin.

DCXXIV

CORRESPONDENCE AND INTERVIEW WITH LORD HOWE '

FROM LORD HOWE

"Eagle,'' 20 Jiine, 1776.

I cannot, my worthy friend, permit the letters and
parcels, which I have sent in the state I received

I Near the beginning of the year 1776, Lord Howe was appointed to
command the British fleet in North America, and on the 3d of May was
declared joint commissioner with his brother, General William Howe,
for the piirpose of endeavoring to effect a reconciliation with the
colonies, conformable to the terms of an act of Parliament. In the
first part of July Lord Howe arrived at Staten Island, where he fotmd
his brother with the British army. He had previously prepared a
Declaration announcing the object of his mission, which he designed
for distribution in the colonies, accompanied by circular-letters to the
royal governors. Copies of these papers were forwarded to Congress,
by whose orders they were immediately published. Lord Howe like-
wise wrote a private letter to Dr. Franklin, then a member of Congress,
which he answered.

Meantime, as Congress took no steps to meet the advances of the
British commissioners, in their proposals for reconciliation, they com-

134 The Works of [1776

them, to be landed, without adding a word upon the
subject of the injurious extremities in which our
unhappy differences have engaged us.

You will learn the nature of my mission from the
official despatches, which I have recommended to
be forwarded by the same conveyance. Retaining
all the earnestness I ever expressed to see our differ-
ences accommodated, I shall conceive, if I meet with
the disposition in the colonies I was once taught to
expect, the most flattering hopes of proving service-
able in the objects of the king's paternal solicitude,
by promoting the establishment of lasting peace and

menced military operations, and the battle of Long Island was fought.
General Sullivan was taken prisoner in this action, and conducted
on board Lord Howe's ship. At his request General Sullivan went to
Philadelphia on parole, having in charge certain verbal communications
to Congress, tending to open the way to some method of effecting the
objects of the commissioners. After maturely considering the subject,
Congress resolved to send a committee of their members to hold a
conference with Lord Howe. The persons selected for this mission
were Franklin, John Adams, and Edward Rutledge.

In regard to the previous correspondence mentioned above, the
following memorandum was afterwards written by Dr. Franklin.

" These letters were published in London, to show the insolence of the
insurgents, in refusing the offer of pardon upon submission, made to
them by the British plenipotentiaries. They undoubtedly deserve
the attention of the public for another reason, the proof they afford
that the commerce of America is deemed by the ministry themselves
of such vast importance, as to justify the horrid and expensive war
they are now waging to maintain the monopoly of it ; that being the
principal cause stated by Lord Howe; though their pensioned writers
and speakers in Parliament have affected to treat that commerce as a
trifle. And they demonstrate further, of how much importance it is
to the rest of Europe, that the continuance of that monopoly should
be obstructed, and the general freedom of trade, now offered by the
Americans, prevented; since by no other means the enormous growing
power of Britain both by sea and land, so formidable to their neighbors,
and which must follow her success, can possibly be prevented." —
Sparks.

1776] Benjamin Franklin 135

union with the colonies. But, if the deep-rooted
prejudices of America, and the necessity for pre-
venting her trade from passing into foreign channels,
must keep us still a divided people, I shall, from
every private as well as public motive, most heartily
lament that this is not the moment wherein those
great objects of my ambition are to be attained, and
that I am to be longer deprived of an opportimity
to assure you personally of the regard with which I
am your sincere and faithful humble servant,

Howe.

P. S. — I was disappointed of the opportimity I
expected for sending this letter at the time it was
dated, and have ever since been prevented by calms
and contrary winds from getting here, to inform
General Howe of the commission with which I have
the satisfaction to be charged, and of his being joined
in it.

Off Sandy Hook, 12th of July.

TO LORD HOWE

Philadelphia, 20 July, 1776.

My Lord: — I received safe the letters your lord-
ship so kindly forwarded to me, and beg you to ac-
cept my thanks.

The official despatches, to which you refer me, con-
tain nothing more than what we had seen in the act
of Parliament, viz., offers of pardon upon submission,
which I am sorry to find, as it must give your lord-
ship pain to be sent so far on so hopeless a business.

Directing pardons to be offered the colonies, who

136 The Works of [1776

are the very parties injured, expresses indeed that
opinion of our ignorance, baseness, and insensibiUty,
which your uninformed and proud nation has long
been pleased to entertain of us ; but it can have no
other effect than that of increasing our resentment.
It is impossible we should think of submission to a
government, that has with the most wanton barbar-
ity and cruelty burnt our defenceless towns in the
midst of winter, excited the savages to massacre our
farmers, and our slaves to murder their masters, and
is even now bringing foreign mercenaries to deluge
our settlements with blood. These atrocious in-
juries have extinguished every remaining spark of
affection for that parent country we once held so
dear; but, were it possible for us to forget and forgive
them, it is not possible for you (I mean the British
nation) to forgive the people you have so heavily
injured. You can never confide again in those as
fellow-subjects, and permit them to enjoy equal
freedom, to whom you know you have given such
just cause of lasting enmity. And this must impel
you, were we again under your government, to
endeavor the breaking our spirit by the severest
tyranny, and obstructing, by every means in your
power, our growing strength and prosperity.

But your lordship mentions "the king's paternal
solicitude for promoting the establishment of lasting
peace and union with the colonies. " If by peace is here
meant a peace to be entered into between Britain
and America, as distinct states now at war, and
his Majesty has given your lordship powers to treat
with us of such a peace, I may venture to say, though

1776] Benjamin Franklin 137

without authority, that I think a treaty for that
purpose not yet quite impracticable, before we enter
into foreign alliances. But I am persuaded you have
no such powers. Your nation, though, by punishing
those American governors who have created and
fomented the discord; rebuilding our burnt towns,
and repairing as far as possible the mischiefs done us,
might yet recover a great share of our regard, and the
greatest part of our growing commerce, with all the
advantage of that additional strength to be derived
from a friendship with us; but I know too well her
abounding pride and deficient wisdom, to believe she
will ever take such salutary measures. Her fondness
for conquest, as a warlike nation, her lust of dominion
as an ambitious one, and her thirst for a gainful
monopoly as a commercial one (none of them legiti-
mate causes of war), will all join to hide from her
eyes every view of her true interests, and continually
goad her on in those ruinous distant expeditions, so
destructive both of lives and treasure, that must
prove as pernicious to her in the end, as the crusades
formerly were to most of the nations of Europe.

I have not the vanity, my lord, to think of intimi-
dating by thus pi-edicting the effects of this war ; for
I know it will in England have the fate of all my
former predictions, not to be believed till the event
shall verify it.

Long did I endeavor, with unfeigned and un-
wearied zeal, to preserve from breaking that fine and
noble china vase, the British empire; for I knew
that, being once broken, the separate parts could not
retain even their share of the strength or value that

138 The Works of [1776

existed in the whole, and that a perfect reunion of
those parts could scarce ever be hoped for. Your
Lordship may possibly remember the tears of joy
that wet my cheek, when, at your good sister's in
London, you once gave me expectations that a recon-
ciliation might soon take place. I had the misfor-
tune to find those expectations disappointed, and to
be treated as the cause of the mischief I was laboring
to prevent. My consolation under that groundless
and malevolent treatment was, that I retained the
friendship of many wise and good men in that
country, and, among the rest, some share in the re-
gard of Lord Howe.

The well-founded esteem, and, permit me to say,
affection, which I shall always have for your lord-
ship, makes it painful to me to see you engaged in
conducting a war, the great ground of which, as
expressed in your letter, is "the necessity of pre-
venting the American trade from passing into foreign
channels." To me it seems, that neither the obtain-
ing or retaining of any trade, how valuable soever, is
an object for which men may justly spill each other's
blood ; that the true and sure means of extending and
securing commerce is the goodness and cheapness
of commodities; and that the profit of no trade can
ever be equal to the expense of compelling it, and
of holding it, by fleets and armies.

I consider this war against us, therefore, as both
unjust and unwise; and I am persuaded that cool,
dispassionate posterity will condemn to infamy
those who advised it ; and that even success will not
save from some degree of dishonor those who voltm-

1776] Benjamin Franklin 139

tarily engaged to conduct it. I know your great
motive in coming hither was the hope of being instru-
mental in a reconciliation; and I believe, when you
find that impossible on any terms given you to pro-
pose, you will relinquish so odious a command, and
return to a more honorable private station.

With the greatest and most sincere respect, I have
the honor to be, my Lord, your Lordship's most
obedient humble servant, B. Franklin. ^

FROM LORD HOWE

'"Eagle," off Staten Island, i6 August, 1776.

I am sorry, my worthy friend, that it is only on
the assurances you give me of my having still pre-
served a place in your esteem, that I can now found
a pretension to trouble you with a reply to your favor
of the 20th past.

I can have no difficulty to acknowledge, that the
powers I am invested with were never calculated
to negotiate a reunion with America, under any

^ Colonel William Palfrey, Paymaster-General of the American
Army, went on board Lord Howe's vessel, July 30, 1776, to make
some arrangement for an exchange of prisoners, who had been captured
at sea. He was accompanied by Mr. Nathaniel Tracy, who carried
with him the above letter from Dr. Franklin to Lord Howe. In a
letter to President Hancock, written the next day, Colonel Palfrey
says:

" Mr. Tracy delivered the letter from Dr. Franklin, which he (Lord
Howe) read. I watched his cotmtenance, and observed him often
to exhibit marks of surprise. When he had finished reading it, he
said his old friend had expressed himself very warmly; that, when
he had the pleasure of seeing him in England, he made him acquainted
with his sentiments respecting the dispute between Great Britain and

I40 The Works of [1776

other description than as subject to the crown of
Great Britain. But I do esteem those powers com-
petent, not only to confer and negotiate with any
gentlemen of influence in the colonies upon the
terms, but also to effect a lasting peace and reunion
between the two countries, were the temper of t?ie
colonies such as professed in the last petition of the
Congress to the king. America would have judged
in the discussion how far the means were adequate
to the end, both for engaging her confidence and
proving our integrity. Nor did I think it necessary
to say more in my public declaration, not conceiving
it could be understood to refer to peace on any other
conditions but those of mutual interest to both
countries, which could alone render it permanent.

But, as I perceive from the tenor of your letter,
how little I am to reckon upon the advantage of
your assistance, for restoring that permanent union
which has long been the object of my endeavors,
and which, I flattered myself when I left England,
would be in the compass of my power; I will only
add that, as the dishonor to which you deem me
exposed by my military situation in this country

the colonies, and with his earnest desire that a reconciHation might
take place, equally honorable and advantageous to both. Possessed
of these sentiments, and the most ardent desire to be the means of
effecting this union, he had accepted the honor the king had done him
in appointing him one of the commissioners; and that tmfortunately a
long passage prevented his arriving here before the declaration of
independence. I told him he had now a fair opportunity to mention
to his friend. Dr. Franklin, in a private letter, his design in coming
out, and what his expectations from America were. This he declined,
saying, that the Doctor had grown too warm, and, if he expressed his
sentiments fully to him, he should only give him pain, which he would
wish to avoid."

1776] Benjamin Franklin 141

has effected no change in your sentiments of per-
sonal regard towards me, so shall no difference in
political points alter my desire of proving how much
I am your sincere and obedient humble servant,

Howe.

In Congress, September 2, 1776. — Congress being
informed that General Sullivan, who was taken
prisoner on Long Island, was come to Philadelphia
with a message from Lord Howe,

Ordered, that he be admitted and heard before
Congress.

General Sullivan being admitted, delivered the
verbal message he had in charge from Lord Howe,
which he desired to reduce to writing, and with-
drew.

September ^d. — General Sullivan having reduced
to writing the verbal message from Lord Howe, the
same was laid before Congress and read as follows :

" That, though he could not at present treat with
Congress, as such, yet he was desirous of having a
conference with some of the members, whom he
would consider for the present only as private gen-
tlemen, and meet them himself as such, at such
place as they should appoint.

" That he, in conjunction with General Howe, had
full powers to compromise the disputes between
Great Britain and America on terms advantageous
to both, the obtaining of which delayed him near
two months in England, and prevented his arrival
at this place before the declaration of independence
took place.

142 The Works of [1776

"That he wished a compact might be settled at
this time, when no decisive blow was struck, and
neither party could say they were compelled to
enter into such agreement.

"That, in case Congress were disposed to treat,
many things which they had not as yet asked,
might and ought to be granted to them; and that,
if, upon the conference, they found any probable
ground of accommodation, the authority of Con-
gress must be afterwards acknowledged, otherwise
the compact could not be complete."

September sth. — Resolved, that General SulHvan
be requested to inform Lord Howe, that this Con-
gress, being the representatives of the free and
independent States of America, cannot, with pro-
priety, send any of its members to confer with his
lordship in their private characters, but that, ever
desirous of establishing peace on reasonable terms,
they will send a committee of their body to know
whether he has any authority to treat with persons
authorized by Congress for that purpose on behalf
of America, and what that authority is, and to hear
such propositions as he shall think fit to make re-
specting the same.

Ordered, that a copy of the foregoing resolution
be delivered to General Sullivan, and that he be
directed immediately to repair to Lord Howe.

September 6th. — Resolved, that the committee
"to be sent to know whether Lord Howe has any
authority to treat with persons authorized by Con-
gress for that purpose, in behalf of America, and
what that authority is, and to hear such propositions

1776] Benjamin Franklin 143

as he shall think fit to make respecting the same,"
consist of three.

Congress then proceeded to the election, and, the
ballots being taken, Mr. Franklin, Mr. Adams, and
Mr. Rutledge were elected. '

TO LORD HOWE

Philadelphia, 8 September, 1776.

My Lord: — I received your favor of the i6th
past. I did not immediately answer it, because I
found that my corresponding with your lordship
was disliked by some members of Congress. I hope
now soon to have an opportunity of discussing with
you, viva voce, the matters mentioned in it ; as I am,
with Mr. Adams and Mr. Rutledge, appointed to
wait on your lordship, in consequence of a desire
you expressed at some conversation with General
Sullivan, and of a resolution of Congress made there-
upon, which that gentleman has probably before this
time communicated to you.

We propose to set out on our journey to-morrow
morning, and to be at Amboy on Wednesday about
nine o'clock, where we should be glad to meet a line
from your lordship, appointing the time and place
of meeting. If it would be agreeable to your lord-
ship, we apprehend that, either at the house on
Staten Island, opposite to Amboy, or at the gov-
ernor's house in Amboy, we might be accommodated
with a room for the purpose. With the greatest
esteem and respect, I have the honor to be, my lord,
etc., B. Franklin.

* See Franklin to Howe, above.

144 The Works of [1776

FROM LORD HOWE
''Eagle," off Bedlow's Island, September lo, 1776.

Lord Howe presents his compliments to Dr.
Franklin, and according to the tenor of his favor
of the 8th, will attend to have the pleasure of meet-
ing him and Messrs. Adams and Rutledge to-morrow
morning, at the house on Staten Island opposite to
Amboy, as early as the few conveniences for travel-
ling by land on Staten Island will admit. Lord
Howe upon his arrival at the place appointed, will
send a boat (if he can procure it in time), with a flag
of truce, over to Amboy; and requests the Doctor
and the other gentlemen will postpone their in-
tended favor of passing over to meet him, until
they are informed as above of his arrival to attend
them there.

In case the weather should prove unfavorable
for Lord Howe to pass in his boat to Staten Island
to-morrow, as from the present appearance there
is some reason to suspect, he will take the next
earliest opportunity that offers for that purpose.
In this intention he may be further retarded, having
been an invalid lately; but will certainly give the
most timely notice of that inability. He, however,
flatters himself he shall not have occasion to make
further excuses on that account.*

"The committee being arrived at Amboy, opposite to the island
and in possession of the Americans, the admiral sent over his barge to
receive and bring them to him, and to leave one of his principal officers
as a hostage for their safe return. The committee of Congress had
not desired a hostage, and they therefore took the officer back with
them. The admiral met them at their landing, and conducted them
through his guards to a convenient room for conference. — W. T. F.

1776] Benjamin Franklin 145

In Congress, September isth. — ^The committee
appointed to confer with Lord Howe, having re-
turned, made a verbal report.

Ordered, that they make a report in writing, as
soon as conveniently they can.

September lyth. — The committee appointed to con-
fer with Lord Howe, agreeable to order, brought in a
report in writing, which was read as follows :

" In obedience to the orders of Congress, we have
had a meeting with Lord Howe. It was on Wednes-
day last, upon Staten Island, opposite to Amboy,
where bis lordship received and entertained us with
the utmost politeness.

"His lordship opened the conversation by ac-
quainting us that, though he could not treat with
us as a committee of Congress, yet, as his powers
enabled him to confer and consult with any private
gentlemen of influence in the colonies, on the means
of restoring peace between the two countries, he
was glad of this opportunity of conferring with
us on that subject, if we thought ourselves at
liberty to enter into a conference with him in that
character.

" We observed to his lordship that, as our business
was to hear, he might consider us in what light he
pleased, and communicate to us any proposition he
might be authorized to make for the purpose men-
tioned; but that we could consider ourselves in no
other character than that in which we were placed
by order of Congress.

"His lordship then entered into a discourse of
considerable length, which contained no explicit

VOL. VII. — 10. "

146 The Works of [1776

proposition of peace except one, namely, that the
colonies should return to their allegiance and obedi-
ence to the government of Great Britain. The rest
consisted principally of assurances that there was
an exceeding good disposition in the king and his
ministers to make that government easy to us,
with intimations that in case of our submis-
sion they would cause the offensive acts of Par-
liament to be revised, and the instructions to
governors to be reconsidered; that so, if any just
causes of complaint were found in the acts, or any
errors in government were perceived to have crept
into the instructions, they might be amended or
withdrawn.

" We gave it as our opinion to his lordship that a
return to the domination of Great Britain was not
now to be expected. We mentioned the repeated
humble petitions of the colonies to the king and Par-
liament, which had been treated with contempt, and
answered only by additional injuries; the unexam-
pled patience we had shown under their tyrannical
government; and that it was not till the last act of
Parliament, which denounced war against us, and
put us out of the king's protection, that we declared
our independence; that this declaration had been
called for by the people of the colonies in general;
that every colony had approved of it, when made;
and all now considered themselves as independent
States, and were settHng or had settled their gov-
ernments accordingly; so that it was not in the
power of Congress to agree for them that they should
return to their former dependent state; that there

1776] Benjamin Franklin 147

was no doubt of their inclination to peace, and their
willingness to enter into a treaty with Britain that
might be advantageous to both countries; that,
though his lordship had at present no power to treat
with them as independent States, he might, if there
was the same good disposition in Britain, much sooner
obtain fresh powers from thence, than powers could
be obtained by Congress from the several colonies to
consent to a submission.

" His lordship then saying that he was sorry to
find that no accommodation was likely to take place,
put an end to the conference.

" Upon the whole, it did not appear to your com-
mittee that his lordship's commission contained
any other authority of importance than what is
expressed in the act of Parliament, namely, that
of granting pardons, with such exceptions as the
commissioners shall think proper to make, and of
declaring America, or any part of it, to be in the
king's peace, upon submission; for, as to the power
of inquiring into the state of America, which his
lordship mentioned to us, and of conferring and
consulting with any persons the commissioners
might think proper, and representing the result of
such conversation to the ministry, who, provided
the colonies would subject themselves, might, after
all, or might not, at their pleasure, make any alter-
ations in their former instructions to governors, or
propose in Parliament any amendment of the acts
complained of, we apprehended any expectation
from the effect of such a power would have been
too uncertain and precarious to be relied on by

148 The Works of [1776

America, had she still continued in her state of
dependence."

Ordered that the above be published.

John Hancock, President.

Attest, Chas. Thompson, Secretary.

DCXXV

TO THOMAS MORRIS

(Translated ')

AuRAY IN Brittany, 4 December, 1776.

I arrived here on board the Reprisal, Capt. Wickes,
now at anchor in Quiberon Bay, where she is wait-
ing for wind to get up to Nantes. I have many
letters and large packages for you, and as I count
upon leaving Nantes by post, I hope to have the
pleasure of delivering them to you. I only send
one of them now, not being sure that the others will
not be opened at the post. Besides, they will cost
you very dear. If our friends at Nantes think
proper, I will send your packages, and those for
Mr. Deane, by express, so that you will have them
almost as soon as if sent by post.

When I left, our armies were very near each other,
about 18 miles from New York. There had been no
general action, though one was expected every day.
In various skirmishes our forces had beaten the

^ This letter is retranslated from a French translation of it found
among the archives of the French Ministry of Foreign Affairs. —
Editor.

1776] Benjamin Franklin 149

enemy of equal or superior force, and our army is full
of courage. There are daily arrivals in our ports of
captures made from the enemy. We made two on
our passage over of twenty days. ^

DCXXVI

TO SILAS DEANE

AuRAY IN Brittany, 4 December, 1776.

I have just arrived on board the Reprisal, Captain
Wickes, a small vessel of war belonging to Congress.
We are in Quiberon Bay, awaiting a favorable wind
to go on to Nantes. We left the Cape the 29th of
October, and have been but 30 days from land to
land. I remained on board three days after we
dropped anchor, hoping to be able to go up to
Nantes in our ship, but the wind continuing un-
favorable, I came here to go on by land to
Nantes.

Congress in September named you, Mr. Jefferson,
and myself, to negotiate a treaty of commerce and
friendship with the court of France. Mr. Jefferson,
then in Virginia, declined. Thereupon Mr. Arthur
Lee, at present in London, was named in his place.
Our vessel has brought indigo for the account of

I The story was rife in Europe that Franklin had fled from America
when he came to France as the agent of the colonies. "I never will
believe," said Burke, "that he is going to conclude a long Hfe, which
has brightened every hour it has continued, with so foul and dishonor-
able a flight."

150 The Works of [1776

Congress, to the value of about ;^3,ooo sterHng,
subject to our order, to meet our expenses. Con-
gress has appropriated, in addition, ;;^7,ooo for the
same object, which the committee will transmit as
soon as possible.

I find myself here as near to Paris as I shall be at
Nantes, but I am obliged to go there to provide
myself with money for my journey, and to get my
baggage, which was left on the ship. I shall endeavor
to join you as soon as possible. I propose to retain
my incognito until I ascertain whether the court will
receive ministers from the United States. I have
several letters for you from the committee, which I
do not send forward because I know they contain
matters of consequence, and I am not certain of their
safety in that way. Besides, as I intend to take the
post at Nantes, I imagine it will make but three or
four days difference. We fell in with two brigantines
at sea, one Irish and the other English, which we
captured and brought into Nantes.

I do not know that the captain can get permission
to sell them here, as that would be in contradiction
of the treaties between the two crowns. They are
worth about £4,000. We have had a tedious pas-
sage, and I am weak, but hope that the good air
which I breathe on land will soon reestablish me,
that I may travel with speed to join you in Paris,
and there find you in good health.

P. S. — If you could find some means to notify Mr.
Lee of his nomination, it would be well to do so.
Perhaps the best way would be through the Depart-

1776] Benjamin Franklin 151

ment of Foreign affairs and the French Ambassador.
The regular post would not be safe.
I beg you to procure lodgings for me."

DCXXVII

TO M. BARBEU DUBOURG

AuRAY IN Brittany, 4 December, 1776.

My dear good friend will be much surprised to
receive a letter from me dated in France, when

' This letter is translated from a copy in French in the Archives des
Affaries Etrangbres at Paris.

Four days after this letter was despatched, Mr. Deane addressed
the following note to M. de Vergennes;

"Paris, December 8, 1776.

" Sir: — I received last evening a letter from my friend Dr. Franklin
at Nantes, which place he was to leave last Sunday morning, so that
I expect him in Paris this day or early to-morrow. Meantime I have
and shall carefully attend to the hint given me, and am confident he
will do the same.

" His arrival is the common topic of conversation and has given
birth to a thousand conjectures and reports, not one of which I have
given grotmd for, having constantly declared that I am ignorant of the
motives of his voyage. I have the honor to be., etc.,

" Silas Deane."

Deane, writing to the Committee of Secret Correspondence on the
12th Dec, after mentioning the receipt of Dr. Franklin's letter an-
nouncing his arrival at Nantes, adds: "Nothing has for a long time
created greater speculation than this event, and our friends here are
elated beyond measure, as this confirms them you will not negotiate
with England ; and for me, I will not attempt to express the pleasiire
I feel on this occasion, as it removes at once difficulties under which I
have been constantly in danger of sinking." — The Diplomatic Corre-
spondence of the American Revolution. Vol. I., p. loi.

The hint referred to in Deane's letter to Vergennes, to which he had
attended and expected Franklin to attend to, was probably given him
by Vergennes, at their first interview, when Vergennes told that the
British Ambassador (Stormont) knew of his, Deane's, arrival, and he
therefore advised him not to associate with Englishmen more than
he was obliged to, as he doubted not Deane would have many spies
on his conduct. — Editor.

152 The Works of [1776

neither of us had been expecting such a thing. I
left Philadelphia the 26th of October, on a vessel of
war belonging to Congress, and in thirty days dropped
anchor in Quiberon Bay. On our voyage we cap-
tured two British vessels and brought them with us.
Our ship is destined for Nantes, but the wind being
unfavorable to entering the Loire, we waited some
days in Quiberon Bay, until becoming impatient to
put my feet on the land, I availed myself of a boat to
get here, whence I shall go by land to Nantes, where
I shall probably rest for a few days. Learning that
the post leaves here this evening, I seize the oppor-
tunity to salute you, as well as my dear Madame
Dubourg and Mesdlles. Prehesson and Basseport,
whom I hope soon to have the pleasure of finding in
good health.

I suppose that Messrs, Deane and Morris have the
honor of being known to you, and as I do not know
their address, I take the liberty of addressing each of
them a word under your cover, and beg you to trans-
mit it to them. I shall see to the reimbursement of
your expenses.

I see that you have had bad news of our affairs in
America, but they are not true. The British, with
the assistance of their ships, have gained a footing in
two islands, but they have not extended their foot-
hold on the continent, where we hold them at a
respectful distance. Our armies were one or two
miles apart when I left, and both entrenched. In
different skirmishes which had occurred lately be-
tween parties of five hundred and a thousand men on
each side, we have always had the advantage, and

1776] Benjamin Franklin 153

have driven them from the field with loss, our fire
being more destructive than theirs. On the sea
we have seriously molested their commerce, taking
large numbers of their ships in the West Indies,
which are daily brought to our ports. But I do not
care to dwell upon these subjects tintil I shall have
the pleasure of seeing you.^

DCXXVIII

TO JOHN HANCOCK, PRESIDENT OF CONGRESS ^

Nantes, 8 December, 1776.

Sir: — In thirty days after we left the Capes of
Delaware we came to an anchor in Quiberon Bay.
I remained on board four days, expecting a change
of wind proper to carry the ship into the river Loire ;
but the wind seemed fixed in an opposite quarter.
I landed at Auray, and with some difficulty got

^This letter is translated from a French copy in the Archives des
Affaires Etrangeres at Paris. — Editor.

2 In March, 1776, Mr. Silas Deane, who had been a member of Con-
gress, was sent to France by the Committee of Secret Correspondence,
to act as a political and commercial agent for the United States. On
the 26th of September, three commissioners were appointed by Con-
gress to take charge of the American affairs in Europe, and endeavor
to procure a treaty of alliance with the court of France. These com-
missioners were Benjamin FrankHn, Silas Deane, and Thomas Jefferson.
The appointment was declined by Mr. Jefferson for domestic reasons,
and his place was supplied by Arthur Lee, on the 2 2d of October.
Mr. Lee was then in London and Mr. Deane in Paris. Dr. Franklin
sailed from Philadelphia on the 26th of October, and the vessel entered
Qviiberon Bay, November 29th. He proceeded thence by way of
Nantes to Paris, where he arrived about the 20th of December, and
where he found Mr. Deane. They were joined by Mr. Lee the day
after Dr. Franklin's arrival.

154 The Works of [1776

hither, the road not being well supplied with means
of conveyance. Two days before we saw land, we
met a brigantine from Bordeaux belonging to Cork,
and another from Rochefort belonging to Hull, both
of which were taken. The first had on board staves,
tar, turpentine, and claret; the other cognac brandy
and flaxseed. There is some difficulty in determin-
ing what to do with them; as they are scarce worth
sending to America, and the mind of the French
court, with regard to prizes brought into their ports,
is not yet known. It is certainly contrary to their
treaties with Britain to permit the sale of them, and
we have no regular means of trying and condemning
them. There are, however, many here who would
purchase prizes, we having already had several offers
from persons who are willing to take upon themselves
all consequences as to the illegality. Captain Wickes,
as soon as he can get his refreshment, intends to cruise
in the Channel.

Our friends in France have been a good deal
dejected with the Gazette accounts of advantages
obtained against us by the British troops. I have
helped them here to recover their spirits a little, by
assuring them, that we still face the enemy, and
were under no apprehension of their armies being
able to complete their junction. I understand that
Mr. Lee has lately been at Paris, that Mr. Deane is
still there, and that an underhand supply is obtained
from the government of two hundred brass field-
pieces, thirty thousand firelocks, and some other mil-
itary stores, which are now shipping for America, and
will be convoyed by a ship of war. The court of

1776] Benjamin Franklin 155

England (M. Penet tells me, from whom I had the
above intelligence) had the folly to demand Mr.
Deane to be delivered up, but were refused.

Our voyage, though not long, was rough, and
I feel myself weakened by it; but I now recover
strength daily, and in a few days shall be able to
undertake the journey to Paris. I have not yet
taken any public character, thinking it prudent first
to know whether the court is ready and willing to re-
ceive ministers publicly from the Congress; that we
may neither embarrass it on the one hand, nor sub-
ject ourselves to the hazard of a disgraceful refusal on
the other. I have despatched an express to Mr.
Deane, with the letters that I had for him from the
committee and a copy of our commission, that he
may immediately make the proper inquiries, and
give me information. In the meantime I find it
generally supposed here that I am sent to negotiate ;
and that opinion appears to give great pleasure, if I
can judge by the extreme civilities I meet with from
numbers of the principal people who have done me
the honor to visit me.

I have desired Mr. Deane, by some speedy and
safe means, to give Mr. Lee notice of his appoint-
ment. I find several vessels here laden with military
stores for America, just ready to sail. On the whole,
there is the greatest prospect that we shall be well
provided for another campaign, and much stronger
than we were last. A Spanish fleet has sailed with
seven thousand land forces foot, and some horse.
Their destination is unknown, but supposed against
the Portuguese in Brazil, Both France and England

156 The Works of [1776

are preparing strong fleets, and it is said that all the
powers of Europe are preparing for war, apprehend-
ing that a general one cannot be very far distant.
When I arrive at Paris, I shall be able to write with
more certainty. I beg you to present my duty to
Congress, and assure them of my most faithful en-
deavors in their service. With the sincerest esteem
and respect I have the honor to be, etc.,

B. Franklin.

DCXXIX

TO THE COMMITTEE OF SECRET CORRESPONDENCE

Nantes, 8 December, 1776.

Gentlemen: — After a short but rough passage of
thirty days, we anchored in Quiberon Bay, the wind
not suiting to enter the Loire. Captain Wickes did
every thing in his power to make the voyage com-
fortable to me ; and I was much pleased with what I
saw of his conduct as an officer, when on supposed
occasions we made preparation for engagement, the
good order and readiness with which it was done
being far beyond my expectations, and I believe
equal to any thing of the kind in the best ships of the
king's fleet. He seems to have also a very good set
of officers under him. I hope they will all in good
time be promoted. He met, and took two prizes,
brigantines, one belonging to Cork, laden with
staves, pitch, tar, turpentine, and claret ; the other,
to Hull, with a cargo of flaxseed and brandy. The
captains have made some propositions of ransom.

1776] Benjamin Franklin 157

which, perhaps, may be accepted, as there is yet no
means of condemning them here, and they are scarce
worth sending to America. The ship is yet in Qui-
beron Bay with her prizes. I came hither from
thence, seventy miles, by land. I am made ex-
tremely welcome here, where America has many
friends. As soon as I have recovered strength
enough for the journey, which I hope will be in a
very few days, I shall set out for Paris. My letter
to the President will inform you of some other par-
ticulars. With great esteem, I have the honor to be,
etc., B. Franklin.

P. S. — December loth. — I have just learned that
eighty pieces of cannon, all brass, with carriages,
braces, and every thing fit for immediate service,
were embarked in a frigate from Havre, which is
sailed; the rest were to go in another frigate of
thirty-six guns.

DCXXX

TO THE COUNT DE VERGENNES

Paris, 23 December, 1776.

Sir: — ^We beg leave to acquaint your Excellency
that we are appointed and fully empowered by the
Congress of the United States of America to propose
and negotiate a treaty of amity and commerce be-
tween France and the United States. The just
and generous treatment their trading ships have re-
ceived by a free admission into the ports of this
kingdom, with other considerations of respect, has

158 The Works of [1776

induced the Congress to make this offer first to
France. We request an audience of your Excellency,
wherein we may have an opportunity of presenting
our credentials, and we flatter ourselves that the
propositions we are authorized to make are such as
will not be found unacceptable.

With the greatest regard, we have the honor to be.
Your Excellency's most obedient
and most humble servants,

B. Franklin,
Silas Deane,
Arthur Lee.
His Excellency, the Count
DE Vergennes.

Endorsement

The original of the above, in the handwriting of
Dr. Franklin, is in the archives of the Ministry of
Foreign Affairs at Paris, where, by the courtesy
of the Duke Decaze, this photograph has been taken.

E. B. Washburne.
Legation of the United States,
Paris, July 16, 1887.

1777] Benjamin Franklin 159

DCXXXI

COMPARISON OF GREAT BRITAIN AND THE UNITED
STATES IN REGARD TO THE BASIS OF CREDIT IN THE
TWO COUNTRIES '

In borrowing money, a man's credit depends on
some, or all, of the following particulars.

First. His known conduct respecting former
loans, and his punctuality in discharging them.

Secondly. His industry.

Thirdly. His frugality.

Fourthly. The amount and certainty of his in-
come, and the freedom of his estate from the incum-
brances of prior debts.

Fifthly. His well-founded prospects of greater
future ability, by the improvement of his estate in
value, and by aids from others.

Sixthly. His known prudence in managing his
general affairs, and the advantage they will probably
receive from the loan which he desires.

Seventhly. His known probity and honest char-
acter, manifested by his voluntary discharge of debts,
which he could not have been legally compelled to
pay. The circumstances which give credit to an in-
dividual, ought to have, and will have their weight
upon the lenders of money to public bodies or nations.

^ This paper was written in the year 1777, while Franklin was one of
the Commissioners of the United States in France. The object was to
produce in Europe a just impression of the resources and political con-
dition and prospects of the United States, with the view of encouraging
governments and private capitalists to loan money to the American
Congress. It was translated into various languages and widely cir-
culated.— Editor.

i6o The Works of [1777

If then we consider and compare Britain and America
in these several particulars, upon the question, "To
which is it safest to lend money?" we shall find:

1. Respecting former loans, that America, who
borrowed ten millions during the last war, for the
maintenance of her army of twenty-five thousand
men and other charges, had faithfully discharged
and paid that debt, and all her other debts, in 1772.
Whereas Britain, during those ten years of peace and
profitable commerce, had made little or no reduction
of her debt; but, on the contrary, from time to time,
diminished the hopes of her creditors by a wanton
diversion and misapplication of the sinking fund
destined for discharging it.

2. Respecting industry; every man in America is
employed; the greater part in cultivating their own
lands, the rest in handicrafts, navigation, and com-
merce. An idle man there, is a rarity; idleness and
inutility are disgraceful. In England the number of
that character is immense ; fashion has spread it far
and wide. Hence the embarrassments of private
fortunes, and the daily bankruptcies, arising from a
universal fondness for appearance and for expensive
pleasures; and hence, in some degree, the misman-
agement of public business; for habits of business,
and ability in it, are acquired only by practice; and,
where universal dissipation and the perpetual pursuit
of amusement are the mode, the youth educated in it
can rarely afterwards acquire that patient attention
and close application to affairs, which are so neces-
sary to a statesman charged with the care of national
welfare. Hence their frequent errors in policy, and

1777] Benjamin Franklin i6i

hence the weariness at public councils, and back-
wardness in going to them, the constant unwilling-
ness to engage in any measure that reqmres thought
and consideration, and the readiness for postponing
every new proposition; which postponing is, there-
fore, the only part of business they come to be expert
in, an expertness produced necessarily by so much
daily practice. Whereas, in America, men bred to
close employment in their private affairs attend with
ease to those of the public when engaged in them, and
nothing fails through negligence.

3. Respecting frugality; the manner of living in
America is more simple and less expensive than in
England; plain tables, plain clothing, and plain fur-
niture in houses prevail, with few carriages of pleas-
ure. There an expensive appearance hurts credit,
and is avoided; in England it is often assumed to
gain credit, and continued to ruin. Respecting pub-
lic affairs, the difference is still greater. In England
the salaries of officers and emoluments of office are
enormous. The king has a million sterling per an-
num, and yet cannot maintain his family free of
debt ^ ; secretaries of state, lords of the treasury,
admiralty, etc., have vast appointments; an auditor
of the exchequer has sixpence in the poimd, or a
fortieth part of all the pubhc money expended by

I On the 13th of April of this year, Lord Worth had asked for and ob-
tained from Parliament $3,000,000 to liquidate the pressing demands
of his sovereign, and an addition of $500,000 to his yearly income.
Many of the tradesmen who supplied the palace with common neces-
saries had not been paid for years. The coal merchant's bill had
reached $30,000. Charles Knight says the annual expense for wax
candles was $50,000. The menial servants were nearly two years
in arrears. The king had received $4,000,000 annually ever since his

VOL. VII. II.

i62 The Works of [1777

the nation, so that, when a war costs forty millions,
one million is paid to him ; an inspector of the mint,
in the last new coinage, received as his fee ;^65,ooo
sterling per annum; to all which rewards no service
these gentlemen can render the public, is by any
means equivalent. All this is paid by the people,
who are oppressed by taxes so occasioned, and
thereby rendered less able to contribute to the pay-
ment of necessary national debts. In America,
salaries, where indispensable, are extremely low;
but much of the public business is done gratis. The
honor of serving the public ably and faithfully is
deemed sufficient. Public spirit really exists there,
and has great effects. In England it is universally
deemed a nonentity, and whoever pretends to it is
laughed at as a fool, or suspected as a knave. The
committees of Congress, which form the board of
war, the board of treasury, the board of foreign
affairs, the naval board, that for accounts, etc., all
attend the business of their respective functions with-
out any salary or emolument whatever, though they
spend in it much more of their time than any lord of
the treasury or admiralty in England can spare from
his amusements. A British minister lately com-
puted, that the whole expense of the Americans in

accession. No one knew where it had gone. No vouchers were pro-
duced, nor were any audit books kept, apparently. The royal estab-
lishment swarmed with officers for whom it was difficult to find names.
Among the satellites aulae was one who was dignified with the title of
"Turnspit of the King's Kitchen." It was suspected that no incon-
siderable part of the king's debts had been incurred in Parliamentary
corruption. It was also whispered that some of the money was sent
to France to corrupt the French ministers, especially Vergennes, who
was suspected of being a pensioner of Lord Stormont. — Editor.

1777] Benjamin Franklin 163

their civil government, over three millions of people,
amounted to but ;^7 0,000 sterling, and drew from
thence a conclusion, that they ought to be taxed
until their expense was equal in proportion to that
which it costs Great Britain to govern eight millions.
He had no idea of a contrary conclusion, that, if three
millions may be well governed for ;^7 0,000, eight
millions may be well governed for three times that
sum, and that therefore the expense of his own gov-
ernment should be diminished. In that corrupted
nation, no man is ashamed of being concerned in
lucrative government jobs, in which the pubhc money
is egregiously misapplied and squandered, the treas-
ury pillaged, and more numerous and heavy taxes
accumulated, to the great oppression of the people.
But the prospect of a greater number of such jobs
by a war, is an inducement with many to cry out
for war upon all occasions, and to oppose every pro-
position of peace. Hence the constant increase of
the national debt, and the absolute improbability
of its ever being discharged.

4. Respecting the amount and certainty of income,
and solidity of security; the whole thirteen States of
America are engaged for the payment of every debt
contracted by the Congress, and the debt to be con-
tracted by the present war is the only debt they will
have to pay; all, or nearly all the former debts of
particular colonies being already discharged ; where-
as England will have to pay, not only the enormous
debt this war must occasion, but all their vast pre-
ceding debt, or the interest of it; and, while Amer-
ica is enriching itself by prizes made upon the British

1 64 The Works of [1777

commerce, more than it ever did by any commerce of
its own, under the restraints of a British monopoly,
Britain is growing poorer by the diminution of its
revenues, and of course less able to discharge the
present indiscreet increase of its expenses.

5. Respecting prospects of greater future ability,
Britain has none such. Her islands are circum-
scribed by the ocean; and, excepting a few parks or
forests, she has no new land to cultivate, and cannot
therefore extend her improvements. Her numbers,
too, instead of increasing from increased subsistence,
are continually diminishing from growing luxury, and
the increasing difficulties of maintaining families,
which of course discourage early marriages. Thus
she will have fewer people to assist in paying her
debts, and that diminishing number will be poorer.
America, on the contrary, has, besides her lands
already cultivated, a vast territory yet to be culti-
vated; which, being cultivated, continually in-
creases in value with the increase of people; and
the people, who double themselves by a natural
propagation every twenty-five years, will double
yet faster by the accession of strangers, as long as
lands are to be had for new families; so that every
twenty years there will be a double number of in-
habitants obliged to discharge the public debts;
and those inhabitants, being more opulent, may pay
their shares with greater ease.

6. Respecting prudence in general affairs, and the
advantages to be expected from the loan desired, the
Americans are cultivators of land; those engaged in
fishery and commerce are few, compared with the

1777] Benjamin Franklin 165

others. They have ever conducted their several
governments with wisdom, avoiding wars and vain,
expensive projects, delighting only in their peaceable
occupations, which must, considering the extent of
their uncultivated territory, find them employment
still for ages. Whereas England, ever imquiet, am-
bitious, avaricious, imprudent, and quarrelsome, is
half of the time engaged in war, always at an expense
infinitely greater than the advantages to be obtained
by it, if successful. Thus they made war against
Spain in 1739, for a claim of about ;^95,ooo (scarce a
groat for each individual of the nation), and spent
forty millions sterling in the war, and the lives of
fifty thousand men ; and finally made peace without
obtaining satisfaction for the sum claimed. Indeed,
there is scarce a nation in Europe, against which she
has not made war on some frivolous pretext or other,
and thereby imprudently accumulated a debt that
has brought her on the verge of bankruptcy. But
the most indiscreet of all her wars is the present
against America, with whom she might for ages have
preserved her profitable connection only by a just
and equitable conduct. She is now acting like a
mad shopkeeper, who, by beating those that pass his
doors, attempts to make them come in and be his
customers. America cannot submit to such treat-
ment, without first being ruined, and, being ruined,
her custom will be worth nothing. England, to
effect this, is increasing her debt, and irretrievably
ruining herself. America, on the other hand, aims
only to estabHsh her liberty, and that freedom of
commerce which will be advantageous to all Europe ;

i66 The Works of [1777

and, by abolishing that monopoly which she labored
under, she will profit infinitely more than enough to
repay any debt which she may contract to accom-
plish it.

7. Respecting character in the honest payment of
debts, the punctuality with which America has dis-
charged her public debts was shown under the first
head. And the general good disposition of the
people to such punctuality has been manifested in
their faithful payment of private debts to England,
since the commencement of this war. There were
not wanting some politicians (in America), who pro-
posed stopping that payment, until peace should be
restored, alleging that, in the usual course of com-
merce, and of the credit given, there was always a
debt existing equal to the trade of eighteen months ;
that, the trade amounting to five millions sterling per
annum, the debt must be seven millions and a half;
that this sum paid to the British merchants would
operate to prevent that distress intended to be
brought upon Britain by our stoppage of commerce
with her; for the merchants, receiving this money,
and no orders with it for further supplies, would
either lay it out in public funds, or in employing
manufacturers to accumulate goods for a future
hungry market in America upon an expected accom-
modation, by which means the funds would be kept
up and the manufacturers prevented from murmur-
ing. But against this it was alleged that injuries
from ministers should not be revenged on merchants,
that the credit was in consequence of private con-
tracts made in confidence of good faith; that these

1777] Benjamin Franklin 167

ought to be held sacred and faithfully complied with ;
for that, whatever public utility might be supposed
to arise from a breach of private faith, it was imjust,
and would in the end be found unwise, honesty being
in truth the best policy. On this principle the prop-
osition was universally rejected ; and though the
English prosecuted the war with unexampled bar-
barity, burning our defenceless towns in the midst
of winter, and arming savages against us, the debt
was punctually paid, and the merchants of London
have testified to the Parhament, and will testify to
all the world, that from their experience in dealing
with us they had, before the war, no apprehension
of our unfairness, and that, since the war, they have
been convinced that their good opinion of us was
well founded. England, on the contrary, an old,
corrupt government, extravagant and profligate
nation, sees herself deep in debt, which she is in no
condition to pay, and yet is madly and dishonestly
running deeper, without any possibiHty of discharg-
ing her debt but by a public bankruptcy.

It appears, therefore, from the general industry,
frugality, ability, prudence, and virtue of America,
that she is a much safer debtor than Britain ; to say
nothing of the satisfaction generous minds must have
in reflecting that by loans to America they are oppos-
ing tyranny, and aiding the cause of liberty, which is
the cause of all mankind.

1 68 The Works of [1777

DCXXXII

TO THE COMMITTEE OF SECRET CORRESPONDENCE

Paris, 4 January, 1777.

Gentlemen: — I arrived here about two weeks
since, where I found Mr. Deane. Mr. Lee has since
joined us from London. We have had an audience
of the minister, Count de Vergennes, and were re-
spectfully received. We left for his consideration a
sketch of the proposed treaty. We are to wait upon
him to-morrow, with a strong memorial, requesting
the aids mentioned in our instructions. By his ad-
vice, we have had an interview with the Spanish Am-
bassador, Count d'Aranda, who seems well disposed
towards us, and will forward copies of our memorials
to his court, which will act, he says, in perfect con-
cert with this.

Their fleets are said to be in fine order, manned
and fit for sea. The cry of the nation is for us, but
the court, it is thought, views an approaching war
with reluctance. The press continues in England.
As soon as we can receive a positive answer from
these courts, we shall despatch an express with it. I
am, gentlemen, etc., B. Franklin.

DCXXXIII

TO MRS. MARY HEWSON

Paris, 12 January, 1777.

My Dear, Dear Polly: — Figure to yourself an
old man with gray hair appearing under a martin

1777] Benjamin Franklin 169

fur cap, among the powdered heads of Paris. It is
this odd figure that salutes you, with handfuls of
blessings on you and your dear little ones. '

On my arrival here, Mademoiselle Biheron gave
me great pleasure in the perusal of a letter from you
to her. It acquainted me that you and yours were
well in August last. I have with me here my young
grandson, Benjamin Franklin Bache, a special good
boy. I shall give him a little French language and
address, and then send him over to pay his respects
to Miss Hewson. My love to all that love you, par-
ticularly to dear Dolly. I am ever, my dear friend,
your affectionate B. Franklin.

P. S. — Temple, who attends me here, presents his
respects. I must contrive to get you to America. I
want all my friends out of that wicked country. I
have just seen in the paper seven paragraphs about
me, of which six were lies.

I The following description of Dr. Franklin's personal appearance
was given by the French police only three days after this letter was
written.

"Doctor Franklin, who lately arrived in this country from the English
colonies, is very much run after, and f^ted, not only by his fellow
savants, but by all who can get hold of him; for he is difficult to be
approached and lives in a seclusion which is supposed to be at the
instance of the government. This Quaker wears the full costume of
his sect. He has an agreeable physiognomy; spectacles always on
his eyes; but Httle hair, — a fur cap is always on his head. He wears
no powder; tidy in his dress; very white linen. His only defence is
a walking-stick. If he sees our ministers it is at Paris, at night, and in
the greatest secrecy; but he has frequent conference with the Sieurs
de Beaumarchais and le Ray de Chaumont. The first of these is the
pet of Madame de Maurepas, and probably fetches and carries for
her."

I70 The Works of [1777

DCXXXIV

TO JULIANA RITCHIE

Paris, 19 January, 1777.

Madam: — I am much obliged to you for your
kind attention to my welfare in the information you
give me. I have no doubt of its being well founded,
but as it is impossible to discover in every case the
falsity of pretended friends who would know our
affairs, and more so to prevent being watched by
spies when interested people may think proper to
place them for that purpose,' I have long observed
one rule which prevents any inconvenience from
such practices. It is simply this — to be concerned in
no affairs that I would blush to have made public,
and to do nothing but what spies may see and wel-
come. When a man's actions are just and honorable,
the more they are known, the more his reputation is
increased and estabHshed. If I was sure, therefore,
that my valet de place was a spy, as probably he is, I
think I should not discharge him for that, if in other
respects I liked him. The various conjectures you
mention concerning my business here must have
their course. They amuse those that make them
and some of those that hear them; they do me no
harm, and therefore it is not necessary that I should
take the least pain^ to rectify them. I am glad to
learn that 3^ou are in a situation that is agreeable to
you, and that Mr. Ritchie was lately well. My
daughter and her children were so when I left them,

I The French Government gave special orders to the police to protect
Dr. Franklin.

1777] Benjamin Franklin 171

but I have lost my dear Mrs. Franklin, now two
years since. I have the honor to be, very respect-
fully, etc., B. Franklin.

DCXXXV

TO THE PRESIDENT OF CONGRESS

Paris, 20 January, 1777.

Dear Sir: — The bearer. Captain Balm, is strongly
recommended to me as a very able officer of horse,
and capable of being extremely useful to us in form-
ing a body of men for that service. As he has other-
wise an excellent character, I take the liberty of
recommending him to my friends as a stranger of
merit, worthy of their civilities, and to Congress as
an officer, who, if employed, may greatly serve a
cause which he has sincerely at heart With great
respect, etc., B. Franklin.

DCXXXVI

TO MR. T. MORRIS

Paris, 26 January, 1777.

Sir: — ^We have expected some remittances from
you to our credit, in consequence of the sales which
have been made at Nantes. You must be sensible
how very unbecoming it is of the situation we are in,
to be dependent on the credit of others. We there-
fore desire that you will remit with all possible ex-
pedition the sum allotted by the Congress for our
expenses.

172 The Works of [1777

DCXXXVII

INSTRUCTIONS TO CAPT. NICHOLSON

Paris, 26 January, 1777.

Sir: — You are directed to proceed to Boulogne,
and there purchase, on as good terms as possible,
a cutter suitable for the purpose of being sent to
America. The purchase being made, despatch the
vessel to Havre de Grace to the care of Mons. Limo-
zin, and agree in the bargain to have her delivered,
at said port, at the risk and expense of the original
owner, at which stipulate to make the payment.
Should you miss of one at Boulogne, proceed to
Calais, and pursue the same directions. If you fail
there, pass to Dover, or Deal, and employ a person
there to make the purchase as for Mr. Limozin of
Nantes, at whose house the payment shall be made.
Your skill in maritime affairs will enable you to
judge of the vessel proper for our purpose, in which
we wish you to embark yourself for Havre, and on
your arrival, put the vessel into the care of Mr.
Limozin, to be filled with every thing necessary for
her to proceed the designed voyage, at the same time
directing Mr. Limozin to call her and speak of her as
his own, — after which you will instantly set off, for
this place, to inform us of your proceedings. Mean-
time you are, on purchasing, to write, first post, not
to us, but to Mr. Le Grand, Bang: rue Mons Mart,
vis-h-vis, St. Joseph a Paris, only saying in a few
words that you have made a purchase, and shall draw
on him soon for the money favor of Mr. Limozin, or

1777] Benjamin Franklin 173

words to that purpose. This letter will be shown us,
and we shall regulate our proceedings accordingly.

Should you be obliged, on purchasing, to pay at
Dover, or Deal, Mons. Le Grand's letter will give a
sufficient credit for the purpose, and at Calais, or
Boulogne, you will address yourself, on the score of
advice and assistance in money matters, to the per-
sons to whom you will have letters directed, but on no
other account, and avoid hinting your proceedings or
views to any one. But should Capt. Hynsen arrive
from London and you, let him go in the vessel you
purchase to Havre and there wait our further orders.
Should he arrive and no vessel be purchased, in such
case procure him a passage to Havre, and direct him
to apply to Mr. Limozin for our directions. In the
whole, we have to wish you to make the utmost de-
spatch, and to conduct with the utmost secrecy and
the economy consistent with hastening as fast as pos-
sible, the object in view.

Dcxxxvni

SUPPOSED TO BE TO M. MONTAUDOIN

Paris, 26 January, 1777.

Sir: — We are very much obliged to you for the
information contained in yours of the 21st.

Mr. Williams' ^ good sense will prevent him from
being materially embarrassed by any manoeuvre em-
ployed to make him counteract our instructions.

^ Mr. Jonathan Williams, Jr., who was about this time appointed
commercial agent of Congress at the port of Nantes.

174 The Works of [1777

We cannot so entirely comprehend this obligation
we have to the mayor and aldermen of your city, as
to know in what terms to return it. As it is probable
one of our number will soon be in Nantes, he will
be able to thank them in person. In the meantime
we beg the favor of you, sir, to make them our
acknowledgments in such manner as you may think
becoming. We have the honor to be, with very
great esteem, sir, Your most obedient servants.

DCXXXIX

TO MRS. MARY HEWSON

Paris, 26 January, 1777

Dear Polly: — I wrote a few lines to you by Dr.

B , and have since seen your letter to Jonathan,

by which I have the great pleasure of learning that
you and yours were well on the 1 7th.

What has become of my and your dear Dolly?
Have you parted? for you mention nothing of her.
I know your friendship continues; but perhaps she
is with one of her brothers. How do they all do ?

I have not yet received a line from my dear old
friend, your mother. Pray tell me where she is, and
how it is with her. Jonathan, who is now at Nantes,
told me that she had a lodging in Northumberland
Court. I doubt her being comfortably accommo-
dated there. Is Miss Barwell a little more at rest,
or as busy as ever? Is she well? And how fares
it with our good friends of the Henckell family ?

1777] Benjamin Franklin 175

But, principally, I want to know how it is with you.
I hear you have not quite settled yet with those peo-
ple. I hope, however, that you have a sufficient in-
come, and live at your ease, and that your money is
safe out of the funds. Does my godson remember
any thing of his Doctor papa ? I suppose not. Kiss
the dear little fellow for me; not forgetting the
others. I long to see them and you. What became
of the lottery ticket I left with your good mother,
which was to produce the diamond ear-rings for you ?
Did you get them? If not. Fortune has wronged
you, for you ought to have had them. I am, my dear
friend, ever yours with sincere esteem and affection,

B. Franklin.

P. S. — January 2'jth. — ^They tell me that in writing
to a lady from Paris, one should always say some-
thing about the fashions. Temple observes them
more than I do. He took notice that at the ball in
Nantes there were no heads less than five, and a few
were seven lengths of the face above the top of the
forehead. You know that those who have practised
drawing, as he has, attend more to proportions than
people in common do. Yesterday we dined at the
Duke de Rochefoucauld's, where there were three
duchesses and a countess, and no head higher than a
face and a half. So, it seems, the farther from court
the more extravagant the mode.

176 The Works of [1777

DCXL

TO JOSEPH PRIESTLEY

Paris, 27 January, 1777.

Dear Sir: — I received your very kind letter of
February last some time in September. Major
Carleton, who was so kind as to forward it to me,
had not an opportunity of doing it sooner. I re-
joice to hear of your continual progress in those use-
ful discoveries. I find that you have set all the
philosophers of Europe at work upon fixed air; and
it is with great pleasure I observe how high you stand
in their opinion; for I enjoy my friends' fame as my
own.

The hint you gave me jocularly, that you did not
quite despair of the philosopher's stone, draws from
me a request that, when you have found it, you will
take care to lose it again; for I believe, in my con-
science, that mankind are wicked enough to continue
slaughtering one another as long as they can find
money to pay the butchers. But of all the wars in
my time, this on the part of England appears to me
the wickedest, having no cause but malice against
liberty, and the jealousy of commerce. And I think
the crime seems likely to meet with its proper pun-
ishment— a total loss of her own liberty, and the de-
struction of her own commerce.

I suppose you would like to know something of the
state of affairs in America. In all probability we
shall be much stronger the next campaign than we
were in the last; better armed, better disciplined,
and with more ammunition. When I was at the

1777] Benjamin Franklin 177

camp before Boston ' the army had not five rounds
of powder a man. This was kept a secret even from
our people. The world wondered that we so seldom
fired a cannon. We could not afford it ; but we now
make powder in plenty.

To me it seems, as it has always done, that this war
must end in our favor and in the ruin of Britain, if
she does not speedily put an end to it. An English
gentleman here the other day, in company with some
French, remarked that it was folly in France not to
make war immediately. And in England, replied
one of them, not to make peace.

Do not believe the reports you hear of our internal
divisions. We are, I believe, as much united as any
people ever were, and as firmly. B. Franklin.

DCXLI

FROM WILLIAM DODD

London, 29 January, 1777.

Sir: — I make no apology for troubling you with
a request I have heretofore made of conveying the
enclosed letter, if possible, to a worthy young woman,
who, in an unfortunate hour, went to America, and
to whose fortunes and situation there I am a stranger.

Anxious for the success of the grand struggle, in
which you are engaged, I could have been happy in
conversing with you when I was at Paris, but you
were rather reserved. If you should see or con-
verse with Mr. Mante, who resided at Dieppe, but

*In October, 1775.

178 The Works of [1777

is frequently at Paris, he knows my sentiments, and
would be happy to communicate with you.' I am,
with very great esteem, etc., W. Dodd.

P. S. — Is it not possible to effect a reconciliation?
Happy could I be to be any way instrumental in it.

DCXLII

TO JOHN INGENHOUSZ

Paris [date xincertain].

I long labored in England, with great zeal

and sincerity, to prevent the breach that has hap-
pened, and which is now so wide that no endeavors
of mine can possibly heal it. You know the treat-
ment I met with from that imprudent court; but I
keep a separate account of private injuries, which I
may forgive ; and I do not think it right to mix them

' Thomas Mante was the author of The History of the Late War in
North America, and the Islands of the West Indies, including the
Campaigns of 1763 and 1764 against His Majesty's Indian Enemies ;
being a quarto volume published at London in 1772. It is the best
history of the war which has been written. The author served in
America; and, in the campaign against the Indians, in 1764, he acted
as major of a brigade and aid-de-camp to General Bradstreet. After
he published his History, he engaged in extensive agriculttiral opera-
tions in France, where he fell into pecuniary difificulties, as he says, by
the faithless conduct of a person with whom he was associated. He
was imprisoned in Paris for debt. In this condition, debiHtated by
disease and oppressed with want, he applied to Dr. Franklin for assist-
ance. His creditors kept him long confined, during which time Dr.
Franklin extended to him every friendly aid in his power, and gener-
ously supplied his necessities.

It was but six days after writing the above letter, that Mr. Dodd
signed the bond upon which he had forged the name of Lord Chester-
field, and which proved his ruin. He was convicted on the 24th of
February, and executed in June following. — Sparks.

1777] Benjamin Franklin 179

with public affairs. Indeed, there is no occasion for
their aid to whet my resentment against a nation,
that has burnt our defenceless towns in the midst of
winter, has excited the savages to assassinate our in-
nocent farmers, with their wives and children, and
our slaves to murder their masters !

It would therefore be deceiving you, if I suffered
you to remain in the supposition you have taken up,
that I am come to Europe to make peace. I am in
fact ordered hither by the Congress for a very differ-
ent purpose; viz., to procure those aids from Euro-
pean powers, for enabhng us to defend our freedom
and independence, which it is certainly their interest
to grant; as by that means the great and rapidly
growing trade of America will be open to them all,
and not a monopoly to Great Britain, as heretofore;
a monopoly that, if she is suffered again to possess,
will be such an increase of her strength by sea, and
if she can reduce us again to submission, she will have
thereby so great an addition to her strength by land,
as will, together, make her the most formidable
power the world has yet seen; and, from her natural
pride and insolence in prosperity, of all others the
most intolerable.

You desire to know my opinion of what will proba-
bly be the end of this war; and whether our new
establishments will not be thereby reduced again to
deserts. I do not, for my part, apprehend much
danger of so great an evil to us. I think we shall be
able, with a little help, to defend ourselves, our
possessions, and our liberties so long, that England
will be mined by persisting in the wicked attempt to

i8o The Works of [1777

destroy them. I must nevertheless regret that ruin,
and wish that her injustice and tyranny had not
deserved it. And I sometimes flatter myself that,
old as I am, I may possibly live to see my country
settled in peace and prosperity, when Britain shall
make no more a formidable figure among the powers
of Europe.

You put me in mind of an apology for mxy con-
duct, which has been expected from me, in answer to
the abuses thrown upon me before the Privy Coun-
cil. It was partly written, but the affairs of public
importance I have ever since been engaged in pre-
vented my finishing it.' The injuries, too, that
my country has suffered, have absorbed private
resentments, and made it appear trifling for an indi-
vidual to trouble the world with his particular justifi-
cation, when all his compatriots were stigmatized by
the king and Parliament as being, in every respect,
the worst of mankind! I am obliged to you, how-
ever, for the friendly part you have always taken in
the defence of my character; and it is indeed no
small argument in my favor, that those who have
known me most and longest, still love me and trust
me with their most important interests, of which
my election into the Congress by the unanimous
voice of the Assembly, or Parliament, of Pennsyl-
vania, the day after my arrival from England, and
my present mission hither by the Congress itself,
are instances incontestable.

^ See the piece here mentioned, in Vol. V. It was never published
by Franklin, and first appeared in William Temple Franklin's edition
of his grandfather's works in 1816-17. — Editor.

1777] Benjamin Franklin i8i

DCXLIII

TO THE RIGHT HONORABLE LORD GEORGE SACKVILLE
GERMAINE, ONE OF THE PRINCIPAL SECRETARIES
OF STATE TO THE KING OF GREAT BRITAIN

Paris, 7 February, 1777.

Whereas the schooner Dickenson with her cargo,
which was the property of the Congress of the United
States of America, was by an act of piracy in some
of her crew carried into the port of Bristol in Eng-
land, and there, as we are informed, was converted
to the use of the government of Great Britain, and
the perpetrators of so base and dishonest an action,
the mate, etc., were rewarded instead of being pun-
ished for their wickedness, and whereas another

vessel with her cargo of tobacco, being also the
property of the United States, or of some inhab-
itants of the same, was lately carried into the port of
Liverpool, in England, by a similar act of treachery
in her crew; and a third has in the same manner
been carried into Halifax;

We therefore being commissioners plenipotentiary
from the Congress of the United States of America,
do, in their name and by their authority, demand
from the court of Great Britain, a restitution of
those vessels and their cargoes, or the full value of
them; together with the delivery of the pirates into
our hands, to be sent where they may be tried and
punished as their crimes deserve.

We feel it our duty to humanity to warn the court
of Great Britain of the consequences of protecting
such offenders and of encouraging such actions as

i82 The Works of [1777

are in violation of all moral obligation and therefore
subversive of the firmest foundation of the laws of
nations.

It is hoped that the government of Great Britain
will not add to the unjust principles of this war, such
practices as would disgrace the meanest state in Eu-
rope ; and which must forever stain the character of
the British nation.' We are sensible that nothing
can be more abhorrent from the sentiments and feel-
ings of the Congress of the United States, than the
authorizing so base a kind of war as a retaliation
of these practices will produce. We are, therefore,
more earnest in pressing the court of Great Britain,
to prevent, by the act of justice which is demanded,
the retaliation, to which necessity, in repugnance to
principles, will otherwise compel.

B. Franklin,
Silas Deane,
Arthur Lee.

DCXLIV

TO MRS. THOMPSON, AT LISLE

Paris, 8 February, 1777.

You are too early, hussy, as well as too saucy, in
calling me rebel; you should wait for the event,
which will determine whether it is a rebellion or only
a revolution. Here the ladies are more civil; they
call us les insurgens, a character that usually pleases
them; and methinks all other women who smart, or

^ The Attorney-General, in the very year this letter was written,
instituted criminal proceedings against an English clergyman for
inviting subscriptions for the relief of wounded Americans. — Editor.

1777] Benjamin Franklin 183

have smarted, under the tyranny of a bad husband,
ought to be fixed in revolution principles, and act
accordingly.

In my way to Canada last spring, I saw dear Mrs.
Barrow at New York. Mr. Barrow had been from
her two or three months, to keep Governor Tryon
and other Tories company on board the Asia, one of
the king's ships which lay in the harbor; and in all
that time that naughty man had not ventured once
on shore to see her. Our troops were then pouring
into the town, and she was packing up to leave it,
fearing, as she had a large house, they would incom-
mode her by quartering officers in it. As she ap-
peared in great perplexity, scarce knowing where to
go, I persuaded her to stay; and I went to the
general officers then commanding there, and recom-
mended her to their protection; which they prom-
ised and performed. On my return from Canada,
where I was a piece of governor (and I think a very
good one) for a fortnight, and might have been so till
this time if your wicked army, enemies to all good
government, had not come and driven me out, I
found her still in quiet possession of her house. I in-
quired how our people had behaved to her. She
spoke in high terms of the respectful attention they
had paid her, and the quiet and security they had
procured her. I said I was glad of it; and that, if
they had used her ill, I would have turned Tory.
Then said she, with that pleasing gayety so natural
to her, / wish they had. For you must know she is
a Tory ess as well as you, and can as flippantly call
rebel. I drank tea with her; we talked affection-

1 84 The Works of [1777

ately of you and our other friends the Wilkses, of
whom she had received no late intelligence. What
became of her since, I have not heard. The street
she lived in was some months after chiefly burnt
down; but, as the town was then, and ever since
has been, in possession of the king's troops, I have
had no opportunity of knowing whether she suffered
any loss in the conflagration. I hope she did not,
as, if she did, I should wish I had not persuaded her
to stay there.

I am glad to learn from you that that unhappy,

though deserving family, the W s, are getting

into some business that may afford them subsistence.
I pray that God will bless them, and that they may

see happier days. Mr. Cheap's and Dr. H 's

good fortunes please me. Pray learn, if you have not
already learnt, like me, to be pleased with other peo-
ple's pleasures, and happy with their happiness, when
none occur of your own ; and then perhaps you will
not so soon be weary of the place you chance to be
in, and so fond of rambling to get rid of your ennui.
I fancy you have hit upon the right reason of your
being weary of St. Omer's, viz., that you are out of
temper, which is the effect of full living and idleness.
A month in Bridewell, beating hemp, upon bread and
water, will give you health and spirits, and subse-
quent cheerfulness and contentment with every other
situation. I prescribe that regimen for you, my dear,
in pure good-will, without a fee. And let me tell
you, if you do not get into temper, neither Brussels
nor Lisle will suit you. I know nothing of the price
of living in either of those places; but I am sure a

1777] Benjamin Franklin 185

single woman, as you are, might with economy upon
two hundred pounds a year maintain herself com-
fortably anywhere, and me into the bargain. Do
not invite me in earnest, however, to come and live
with you; for, being posted here, I ought not to
comply, and I am not sure I should be able to refuse.
Present my respects to Mrs. Payne and Mrs.
Heathcot ; for, though I have not the honor of know-
ing them, yet, as you say they are friends to the
American cause, I am sure they must be women of
good understanding. I know you wish you could
see me; but, as you cannot, I will describe myself
to you. Figure me in your mind as jolly as for-
merly, and as strong and hearty, only a few years
older; very plainly dressed, wearing my thin, gray
straight hair, that peeps out under my only coiffure,
a fine fur cap, which comes down my forehead
almost to my spectacles. Think how this must
appear among the powdered heads of Paris! I wish
every lady and gentleman in France would only be
so obliging as to follow my fashion, comb their own
heads as I do mine, dismiss their friseurs, and pay
me half the money they paid to them. You see,
the gentry might well afford this, and I could then
enlist these friseurs, who are at least one hundred
thousand, and with the money I would maintain
them, make a visit with them to England, and dress
the heads of your ministers and privy councillors;
which I conceive at present to be un peu derangees.
Adieu, madcap; and believe me ever your affec-
tionate friend and humble servant,

B. Franklin.

i86 The Works of [1777

P. S. — Don't be proud of this long letter. A fit
of the gout, which has confined me five days, and
made me refuse to receive company, has given me
a little time to trifle; otherwise it would have been
very short, visitors and business would have inter-
rupted; and perhaps, with Mrs. Barrow, you v/ish
they had.

DCXLV

TO GENERAL WASHINGTON *

Sir: — The Marquis de Lafayette, a young noble-
man of great expectations and exceedingly beloved
here, is by this time probably with you. By some
misapprehension in his contract with the merchants
of Bordeau:x he was prevented from using the pro-
duce of the cargo he carried over, and so was left
without a supply of money. His friends here have
sent him over about ;;^5oo sterling; and have pro-
posed sending him more ; but on reflection, knowing
the extreme generosity of his disposition, and fearing
that some of his necessitous and artful countrymen
may impose on his goodness, they wish to put his
money into the hands of some discreet friend, who
may supply him from time to time, and by that
means knowing his expenses, may take occasion to
advise him, if necessary, with a friendly affection,
and secure him from too much imposition. They
accordingly have desired us to name such a person

^ This letter is printed from a rough draft, in the Department of
State at Washington, which is without date. — Editor.

1777] Benjamin Franklin 187

to them. We have not been able to think of one so
capable, and so suitable from the influence of situa-
tion, to perform that kind office, as General Wash-
ington, under whose eye the gentleman will probably
be. We beg therefore in his behalf, what his friends
out of respect would not take the liberty of asking,
that your Excellency would be pleased to furnish
him with what money he may want in moderation,
and take his drafts payable to us for the sums paid
him, which we shall receive here and apply to the
public service. We also join with his family in
their earnest request that you would favor him with
your counsels, which you may be assured will be an
act of benevolence gratefully remembered and ac-
knowledged, by a number of very worthy persons
here who interest themselves extremely in the
welfare of that amiable young nobleman.

With the greatest respect we have the honor to
be, sir, Your Excellency's, etc.

DCXLVI

FROM GEORGIANA SHIPLEY

London, ii February, 1777.

After near two years had passed without my hear-
ing any thing from you, and while I looked upon the
renewal of our correspondence as a very imlikely
event, it is easier to conceive than express the joy
I felt at receiving your last kind letter. The cer-
tainty that you are in good health and spirits, and

1 88 The Works of [1777

that you still remember your English friends, is the
greatest pleasure we can know during your absence.
How good you were to send me your direction, but
I fear I must not make use of it as often as I could
wish, since my father says that it will be prudent not
to write in the present situation of affairs. I am not
of an age to be so very prudent, and the only thought
that occurred to me was your suspecting that my
silence proceeded from other motives. I could not
support the idea of your believing that I love and
esteem you less than I did some few years ago. I
therefore write this once without my father's know-
ledge. You are the first man that ever received a
private letter from me, and in this instance I feel
that my intentions justify my conduct ; but I must
entreat that you will take no notice of my writing,
when next I have the happiness of hearing from you.
You say you are interested in whatever relates to
this family. My father I think was never better
than he is at present, both as to his health and
spirits; my mother has not been so well this last
summer, but I flatter myself that she has now per-
fectly recovered from her late indisposition. Emily
has only one daughter, a charming little girl, near
fifteen months old, whom her aunts reckon a prodigy
of sense and beauty. The rest of my sisters continue
in statu quo. Whether this proceeds from the men
being difficult, or from their being difficult, I leave
you to determine. I often see many of your good
friends, need I add that you are the favorite subject
of our conversation. They all love you almost as
much as I do — as much I will not admit to be pos-

1777] Benjamin Franklin 189

sible. Doctor P. made me extremely happy last
winter by giving me a print of my excellent friend.
It is certainly very like you, although it wants the
addition of your own hair to make it complete, but
as it is, I prize it infinitely, now the dear original is
absent. Pray have you met with Smith's "Wealth
of Nations " ? if not, I venture strongly to recom-
mend it to you. I have read only part, but propose
shortly to read it regularly through. His sentiments
are liberal and the language clear and interesting.
This is the only book that has been lately published
worth mentioning, except Gibbon's "History of the
Rise and Fall of the Roman Empire." It is written
in a pleasing elegant manner. His scheme is to
unite ancient and modern history, an immense work,
which I wish he may have application to accomplish.
I have been at length fortunate enough to procure
the Economics, which I have read with great at-
tention, as indeed every thing else I can meet with
relative to Socrates, for I fancy I can discover in
each trait of that admirable man's character, a strong
resemblance between him and my much-loved friend
— the same clearness of judgment, the same upright-
ness of intention, and the same superior under-
standing. I dined lately with Sir Wm. Hamilton;
he gave me an account of a new electrical machine,
invented in Italy. It is composed of beeswax, a
plate of metal, and a plate of glass. They are able
to take a spark from it at ten inches' distance, but
he could not inform me why these bodies united
produce this effect. Were you in England how
happy should I be to have this as well as many other

iQO The Works of [1777

things explained by you, but I don't allow myself
to entertain any hopes on this subject, as I much fear
there is no reason to flatter myself with so pleasing
an idea. Envy is reckoned one of the foibles of our
sex. Till lately I thought I was exempt from it,
but now I find a strong inclination to envy your
grandson the having it in his power to show you any
kindness and attention. Did my family know of
my writing, my letter would scarce contain the very-
many things they would desire me to say for them.
They continue to admire and love you as much as
they did formerly, nor can any time or event in the
least change their sentiments.

My paper now reminds me that it is high time for
me to conclude. Assure yourself that every good
wish for your happiness and prosperity attends you
from this house. Adieu, mon cher Socrate; con-
servez vous pour I'amour de moi, et pour mille
autres raisons plus importants. Je ne vous en dirai
pas d'avantage pour aujourd' hui, mais je veux
esperer de vous entretenir plus h mon aise, avant
que soit longue. Pray write whenever a safe con-
veyance opens, since the receiving letters is reckoned
very different from answering them. I must once
more repeat nobody knows of this scroll; "a word
to the wise," — as poor Richard says.

1777] Benjamin Franklin 191

DCXLVII

FROM THE COUNT DE SCHAUMBERGH TO THE BARON
HOHENDORF, COMMANDING THE HESSIAN TROOPS
IN AMERICA

Rome, i8 February, 1777.

Monsieur le Baron: ^— On my return from
Naples, I received at Rome your letter of the 27th
December of last year. I have learned with un-
speakable pleasure the courage our troops exhibited
at Trenton, and you cannot imagine my joy on being
told that of the 1,950 Hessians engaged in the fight,
but 345 escaped. There were just 1,605 men killed,'
and I cannot sufficiently commend your prudence
in sending an exact list of the dead to my minister
in London. This precaution was the more neces-
sary, as the report sent to the English ministry does
not give but 1,455 dead. This would make 483,450
florins instead of the 643,500 which I am entitled
to demand under our convention. You will com-
prehend the prejudice which such an error would
work in my finances, and I do not doubt you will
take the necessary pains to prove that Lord North's
list is false and yours correct.

The court of London objects that there were a
hundred wounded who ought not to be included
in the list, nor paid for as dead; but I trust you will

» The jeu d: esprit here given in the text appears in the Correspon-
dance, secrHe et tnedite,, sur Louis XVI. et Marie Antoinette. (See
Vol. L, p. 60.) It may be the very satire referred to at the close of the
letter on p. 2 1 7, this vol. Nor do I think I am doing Doctor Franklin
any mjustice in suspecting him of being its author. Since the death
of Swift, who, besides Franklin, was sufficiently a master of this kind
of satire to have written it? — Editor.

192 The Works of [1777

not overlook my instructions to 3/ou on quitting
Cassel, and that you will not have tried by human
succor to recall to life the unfortunates whose days
could not be lengthened but by the loss of a leg or
an arm. That would be making them a pernicious
present, and I am sure they would rather die than
live in a condition no longer fit for my service. I
do not mean by this that you should assassinate
them; we should be humane, my dear Baron, but
you may insinuate to the surgeons with entire pro-
priety that a crippled man is a reproach to their
profession, and that there is no wiser course than
to let every one of them die when he ceases to be fit
to fight.

I am about to send you some new recruits. Don't
economize them. Remember glory before all things.
Glory is true wealth. There is nothing degrades
the soldier like the love of money. He must care
only for honor and reputation, but this reputation
must be acquired in the midst of dangers. A battle
gained without costing the conqueror any blood is
an inglorious success, while the conquered cover
themselves with glory by perishing with their arms
in their hands. Do you remember that of the 300
Lacedasmonians who defended the defile of Ther-
mopylae, not one returned? How happy should I
be could I say the same of my brave Hessians !

It is true that their king, Leonidas, perished with
them: but things have changed, and it is no longer
the custom for princes of the empire to go and fight
in America for a cause with which they have no
concern. And besides, to whom should they pay

1777] Benjamin Franklin 193

the thirty guineas per man ' if I did not stay in
Europe to receive them? Then, it is necessary also
that I be ready to send recruits to replace the men
you lose. For this purpose I must return to Hesse.
It is true, grown men are becoming scarce there,
but I will send you boys. Besides, the scarcer the

^ The editor of George Ill's Letters to Lord North, in a brief com-
mentary upon these contracts, Vol. I., p. 266, says:

"The principal graziers with whom the English government dealt
for military stock were the Duke of Brunswick, the Landgrave of
Hesse Cassel, the hereditary Prince of Hesse Cassel, and subsequently
the Prince of Waldeck. The prices given, as appears from the
copies of the treaties laid before Parliament on the 29th of February
in the following year, were as follows: These potentates stipulated
to supply a force of 17,742 men at the rate of 7/. 4s. 4c?. a man; all
extraordinary losses in battle or otherwise to be compensated by the
king. Each of the noble graziers was to receive in addition an
annual subsidy in proportion to the number of men; the Duke of
Brunswick 15,510/. so long as his troops received pay, and double that
sum for two years after; the Landgrave of Hesse 108,281/., and also
to have twelve months' notice before payment was discontinued,
after his forces returned to his dominions; to the Princes of Hesse
and Waldeck, who contributed near 700 men each, were assigned
6,017/. The dominions of all were guaranteed against foreign attack,
for such time at least as their herds were in foreign parts."

In a letter from George IIL to Lord North, dated from Kew, No-
vember 14, 1775, his Majesty writes:

"I sent last week orders to the Regency and to Field Marshal Spor-
ken that Schleither should be permitted to contract with Colonel
Faucitt for raising 4,000 recruits for Great Britain, and that Stade
and Neubm-gh should be the two garrisons where the recruits should
be closely kept. . . . The laws of Germany are so clear against
emigration that I certainly, in going thus far, have done as much as
I possibly can in my electoral capacity; the giving commissions to
oificers, or any other of the proposals that have been made, I can by
no means consent to, for they, in plain English, are turning me into a
kidnapper, which I cannot think a very honorable occupation."

The Colonel Faucitt here referred to was sent as agent to trade with
the hereditary prince Ferdinand, George IIL's brother-in-law, who
persuaded his father, the reigning duke, to part with some of his troops.
Three hundred light dragoons, which were not wanted, were added to
"the 4,000 recruits" required, Faucitt not wishing "to appear difficult."

VOL. VII. 13.
The Works of [1777

commodity, the higher the price. I am assured
that the women and Httle girls have begun to till
our lands, and they get on not badly. You did
right to send back to Europe that Dr. Crumerus
who was so successful in curing dysentery. Don't
bother with a man who is subject to looseness of
the bowels. That disease makes bad soldiers. One
coward will do more mischief in an engagement than
ten brave men will do good. Better that they burst
in their barracks than fly in a battle, and tarnish
the glory of our arms. Besides, you know that they

Sixty German dollars levy money was demanded for each man, but
a little more than half that sum was finally accepted. Every soldier
killed was to be paid for at the rate of the levy money, and three
wounded men were to be reckoned as one killed.

It must have been the recital of these degrading enormities which
inspired the following anecdote at the expense of royalty, preserved
by John Adams. He says in his diary:

"Franklin told us one of his characteristic stories. A Spanish
writer of certain visions of hell relates that a certain devil, who was
civil, showed him all the apartments of the place; among others, that
of the deceased kings. The Spaniard was much pleased at so illustrious
a sight, and, after viewing them for some time, said he shotold be glad
to see the rest of them. ' The rest ! ' said the demon ; ' here are all the
kings that have ever reigned upon earth, from the creation of it to
this day. What the devil would the man have? ' "

It is worthy of note here that the castle of Wilhelmshohe, one of the
most costly country-places, after that of the palace of Versailles, in
the world, was built by the Elector of Cassel shortly after our revolu-
tionary war, with the money he received for the loan of his subjects
to aid England in resisting the emancipation of her American colonies.
This palace, and the bridges, water-falls, towers, etc., are said to have
employed 2,000 men fourteen years in their construction, and the
cost was found to be so enormous that the accounts were destroyed.
For the 12,000 Hessians sent to fight the Americans and 5,000 more
sent to resist the invasion of Scotland by the Pretender, England
paid the Elector of that day 22,000,000 thalers, or about $18,000,000,
of which the palace of Wilhelmshohe is the most conspicuous surviving
memorial.

It is a fact pregnant with important lessons, that every one of the

t777] Benjamin Franklin 195

pay me as killed for all who die from disease, and I
don't get a farthing for runaways. My trip to Italy,
which has cost me enormously, makes it desirable
that there should be a great mortality among them.
You will therefore promise promotion to all who ex-
pose themselves ; you will exhort them to seek glory
in the midst of dangers ; you will say to Major Maun-
dorff that I am not at all content with his saving
the 345 men who escaped the massacre at Trenton.
Through the whole campaign he has not had ten
men killed in consequence of his orders. Finally,
let it be your principal object to prolong the war
and avoid a decisive engagement on either side, for
I have made arrangements for a grand Italian opera,

European states, including Cassel, that hired out their subjects to
resist American independence, have lost their own. Not one of them
is any longer a sovereign power. In the war of 1866, the last Elector
of Cassel committed the folly of taking sides with Austria, and one of
the consequences was that his enchanting castle of Wilhelmshohe
became the property of his conqueror. Thus one after the other all
the states that made merchandise of their subjects to aid England in
keeping her American colonies in thrall have been swallowed up by
Prussia, our earliest European friend, with whom we never had even
a diplomatic controversy, and whose wealth and sympathy contri-
buted in no inconsiderable degree to sustain the United States diuing
their recent and greatest national trials.

This palace of Wilhelmshohe was destined subsequently to become
at once the prison and the asylum of another sovereign, who, unfaith-
ful to the traditions of his people, allowed himself to countenance a
conspiracy which, to be successful, must have involved the destruction
of the republic which had proved so fatal to those of his order who
had tried to strangle it in its cradle. With Louis Napoleon's project
to re-establish imperial institutions upon the rtiins of a republic in
Mexico, began the decline of his fortimes. It is a curious vindication
of the ways of God to man that this castle of Wilhelmshohe, built
with the bones of America's enemies, should be destined to afford the
welcome shelter of a prison to one who lost his crown in attempting
to erect armed barriers against the spread of the Anglo-Saxon race in
America. — Editor.

196 The Works of [1777

and I do not wish to be obHged to give it up. Mean-
time I pray God, my dear Baron de Hohendorf, to
have you in his holy and gracious keeping.

DCXLVIII

TO RICHARD PETERS ^

Dear Sir: — The bearer, Mr. Garanger, Captain of
Bombardiers, had, as he informs me, engaged to go
to America with M. De Coudray, an officer of great
distinction in the artillery, who is engaged in our
service, and sailed some time since. M. Garanger not
being then ready was left behind. He is well recom-
mended to me by M. Brisson, a gentleman of science
here, and has other certificates of his abilities to
show; besides that, the judgment of M. de Coudray,
in choosing to engage him, is of itself more than a
sufficient recommendation. I know nothing of the
contract between them, and must for that refer to
M. de Coudray himself, who I hope is by this time
safely arrived. I only beg leave to introduce him
to you, to recommend him to your civilities and
countenance, as a gentleman who is zealous for our
cause and desirous to serve it, and to request you
will present him to the Board of War. I congrat-
ulate you on the check given to the enemy in New
Jersey, and wishing continued success to our arms,

^ This letter was filed with the following memorandum: "Copy of a
letter from Benjamin Franklin, Esqr., to Mr. Richard Peters, Secretary
to the Rebel Board of War at Philadelphia, dated at Paris March 6,
1777."

1777] Benjamin Franklin 197

and to you and Mrs. Peters health and happiness,
I have the honor to be, dear sir, etc.,

B. Franklin.

DCXLIX

TO ARTHUR LEE '

Passy, 21 March, 1777.

Dear Sir: — We have received your favors from
Vittoria and Burgos. The Congress, sitting at Balti-
more, despatched a packet to us the 9th of January,
containing an account of the success at Trenton, and
subsequent events to that date, as far as they had
come to knowledge. The vessel was obliged to run
up a little river in Virginia to avoid some m.en-of-
war, and was detained there seventeen days, or we

I In a letter from the Commissioners to the Committee of Secret
Correspondence, dated at Paris, February 6th, they write as follows:
" Finding that our residence here together is nearly as expensive as if
separate, and having reason to believe that one of us might be useful
in Madrid, and another in Holland, and some courts farther northward,
we have agreed that Mr. Lee go to Spain, and either Mr. Deane or Dr.
Franklin to the Hague. Mr. Lee sets out to-morrow, having obtained
passports, and a letter from the Spanish ambassador here to the min-
ister there. The journey to Holland will not take place so soon.
The particular purposes of these journeys we cannot prudently now
explain."

Mr. Lee accordingly went to Spain, but he was not permitted by the
Spanish court to proceed any farther than Burgos. He was there
met by the Marquis de Grimaldi, one of the ministers, and succeeded
in obtaining from the Spanish government a small amount of money
for purchasing military supplies, which were subsequently shipped to
the United States from Bilboa. The business was transacted secretly,
and the minister declined making any pledges or entering into any
arrangements in favor of the United States. Mr. Lee returned to
Paris, and rejoined the other Commissioners, after an absence of seven
weeks. — See North American Review for April, 1830, Vol. XXX., p.
470. — Editor.

198 The Works of [1777

should have had these advices sooner. We learn,
however, through England, where they have news
from New York to the 4th of February, that in Lord
Comwallis' retreat to New Brunswick two regiments
of his rear guard were cut to pieces; that General
Washington, having got round him to Newark and
Elizabeth town, he had retired to Amboy in his way to
New York ; that General Howe had called in the gar-
risons of Fort Lee and Fort Constitution, which were
now possessed by our people ; that on the New York
side Forts Washington and Independence were retaken
by our troops, and that the British forces at Rhode
Island were recalled for the defence of New York.

The committee in their letters mention the inten-
tion of Congress to send ministers to the courts of
Vienna, Tuscany, Holland, and Prussia. They also
send us a fresh commission, containing your name
instead of Mr. Jefferson's, with this additional clause:
" And also to enter into and agree upon a treaty with
his most Christian Majesty, or such other person or
persons as shall be by him authorized for that pur-
pose, for assistance in carrying on the present war
between Great Britain and these United States."
The same clause is in a particular commission they
have sent me, to treat with the court of Spain, simi-
lar to our common commission to the court of
France,^ and I am accordingly directed to go to

I On the ist of January, 1777, Congress resolved: "That Benjamin
FrankHn be directed to proceed to the court of Spain, and there trans-
act, in behalf of the United States, such business as shall be intrusted
to him by Congress, agreeably to the instructions that may be given
to him and transmitted by the Committee of Secret Correspondence."
See his commission in the Secret Journal of Congress, Vol. II., p. 42. —
Editor.

1777] Benjamin Franklin 199

Spain ; but, as I know that choice was made merely
on the supposition of my being a little known there
to the great personage for whom you have my letter
(a circumstance of little importance), and I am really
unable through age to bear the fatigue and incon-
veniences of such a journey, I must excuse myself to
Congress, and join with Mr. Deane in requesting
you to proceed in the business on the former footing
till you can receive a particular commission from
Congress, which will no doubt be sent as soon as the
circumstances are known.

We know of no plans or instructions to Mr. Deane
but those you have with you. By the packet, indeed,
we have some fresh instructions, which relate to your
mission, viz., that, in case France and Spain will enter
into the war, the United States will assist the former
in the conquest of the British sugar islands, and the
latter in the conquest of Portugal, promising the as-
sistance of six frigates manned, of not less than
twenty-four guns each, and provisions equal to two
millions of dollars; America desiring only for her
share what Britain holds on the continent; but you
shall by the first safe opportunity have the instruc-
tions at length. I believe we must send a courier.

If we can, we are ordered to borrow two millions
of pounds on interest. Judge then what a piece of
service you will do, if you can obtain a considerable
subsidy, or even a loan without interest.

We are also ordered to build six ships of war. It
is a pleasure to find the things ordered, which we
were doing without orders.

We are also to acquaint the several courts with
The Works of [1777

the determination of America to maintain at all
events our independence. You will see, by the date
of the resolution relating to Portugal, as well as by
the above, that the Congress were stout in the midst
of their difficulties. It would be well to sound the
court of Spain on the subject of permitting our armed
ships to bring prizes into her ports, and there dispose
of them. If it can be done openly, in what manner
can we be accommodated with the use of their ports,
or under what restrictions ? This government has of
late been a little nice on that head; and the orders
to L 'Orient have occasioned Captain Wickes some
trouble.

We have good advice of our friend at Amsterdam,
that in the height of British pride on their summer
success, and just before they heard of any check,
the ambassador, Sir Joseph Yorke, had been ordered
to send a haughty memorial to the States, import-
ing that, notwithstanding their promises to restrain
their subjects from supplying the rebels, it was no-
torious, that those supplies were openly furnished by
Hollanders at St. Eustatia; and that the governor
of that island had returned, from his fort, the salute of
a rebel ship of war with an equal number of guns; that
his Majesty justly and highly resented these pro-
ceedings, and demanded that the States should by
more severe provisions restrain that commerce ; that
they should declare their disapprobation of the in-
solent behavior of their governor, and punish him
by an immediate recall ; otherwise his Majesty, who
knows what appertains to the dignity of his crown,
would take proper measures to vindicate it ; and he

1777] Benjamin Franklin 201

required an immediate answer. The States coolly
returned the memorial, with only this answer — that,
when the respect due to sovereigns was not pre-
served in a memorial, it ought not to be expected
in an answer. But the city of Amsterdam took fire
at the insolence of it, and instructed their deputies
in the States to demand satisfaction by the British
court's disavowal of the memorial, and the repri-
mand of the ambassador. The States immediately
demanded a number of men-of-war ships to be in
readiness. Perhaps since the bad news has come,
England may be civil enough to make up this little
difference.

Mr. Deane is still here. You desire our advice
about your stopping at Burgos. We are of opinion
that you should comply with the request. While we
are asking aid it is necessary to gratify the desires,
and in some sort comply with the humors, of those
we apply to. Our business now is to carry our point.
But I have never yet changed the opinion I gave
in Congress, that a virgin State should preserve the
virgin character, and not go about suitoring for
alliances, but wait with decent dignity for the appli-
cations of others. I was overruled ; perhaps for the
best.

With the greatest esteem, I am ever, dear sir, your
most obedient humble servant, B. Franklin.^

^ Upon Franklin's arrival in Paris he was conducted by Mr. Deane to
H6tel Hamburg, his own residence, in the Rue de I'Universite, where
he tarried a few weeks. It proved too public a place for a lion of such
proportions as by this time the Doctor had attained, and he was but
too happy to accept the invitation of M. Le Ray de Chaumont, a warm,
steadfast, and most usefiol friend of the Americans, to accept a house,

202 The Works of [1777

DCL

TO M. LITH

Passy, 6 April, 1777.

Sir : — I have just been honored with a letter from
you, dated the 26th past, in which you express your-
self as astonished, and appear to be angry, that you
have no answer to a letter you wrote me on the nth
of December, which you are sure was delivered to me.

or dependance, as the French call it, of his country place, the H6tel
Valentinois, at Passy, then about three miles from Paris, but included
within the city limits during the Second Empire. It was from there
this letter was written. Besides its greater seclusion, the relations
which M. de Chaumont held with the court and ministry gave to this
residence advantages which did not escape the sagacious eye of the
American envoy. As Dr. FrankHn continued to occupy this house
for the entire nine years of his sojourn in France, and to entertain
with M. de Chavimont and his descendants relations of cordial friend-
ship and intimacy till the end of his life, I will here insert a letter
from the grandson of Dr. Franklin's host, written to the Editor in
1863, giving details of M. Le Ray de Chaumont, of his rank and influ-
ence, and of his devotion to the American cause, which are not generally
known:

"Before I have the honor of seeing again your Excellency, I beg
leave to say a few words of my family, which may not be wholly un-
interesting to you, and which are important to me.

"At the time when Franklin and the other Commissioners came to
France, my grandfather, Grandmaitre des Eaux et Forets de France,
Intendant honoraire des Invalides, was enjoying a well-earned repose
and a fortune of two millions of francs, at his Chateau of Chaumont on
the Loire, and at Passy, near Paris.

"The Due de Choiseul, his friend and neighbor in the country, had
wished him to enter the ministry with him ; but my grandfather refused
in order to be an intermediary between the Government and the Com-
missioners. He received them in a house in his Pare at Passy, whence
many letters from Franklin are dated.

"I take the liberty of referring your Excellency to the copy of a
letter from B. Franklin to President Washington, here enclosed.*

"At one time he sent clothing to General Lafayette's army, and, as

* See this letter, dated June 3, 1789, in its place. Also the letter of Franklin to the
President of Congress, dated April 12, 178s. — Editor.

1777] Benjamin Franklin 203

In exculpation of myself, I assure you that I never
received any letter from you of that date. And in-
deed, being then but four days landed at Nantes, I
think you could scarce have heard so soon of my be-
ing in Europe.

But I received one from you of the 8th of January,
which I own I did not answer. It may displease you
if I give you the reason; but, as it may be of use to
you in your future correspondences, I will hazard that
for a gentleman to whom I feel myself obliged, as an
American, on account of his good-will to our cause.

Whoever writes to a stranger should observe three
points. I. That what he proposes be practicable.
2. His propositions should be made in explicit terms,
so as to be easily understood. 3. What he desires
should be in itself reasonable. Hereby he will give
a favorable impression of his imderstanding, and

friend of the General's wife's family, he had constant and friendly
intercotirse with the General.

"When Paid Jones came to France, the confidence of the Govern-
ments of the United States and France entrusted my grandfather with
the difficult task of superintending the fitting out of the expedition.
This was rendered more delicate by P. Jones's irascible and capricious
temper. In fact, this brave but imprudent man behaved improperly
with regard to my grandfather, but afterwards apologized.

"During my father's protracted stay in America, he married a Miss
Coxe of New Jersey; he entered largely, in connection with Gouvemeur
Morris and Count de La Forest, Consul-General of France (with both
of whom he maintained through life a warm and intimate friendship),
in ptirchases of wild lands in the State of New York. This necessitated
several journeys, and finally his setthng in America.

"My father was naturalized an American citizen. I have the
honor of bearing the same title, although bom in France; and my
son, whose mother was an American (of the Livingston family), was
bom in New York."

In 1867 the writer of this letter was still living, and taking a Hvely
interest in the fortxines of the republic which his father and grand-
father had helped to nurse in its infancy. — Editor.

204 The Works of [1777

create a desire of further acquaintance. Now it hap-
pened that you were neghgent in all these points:
for, first, you desired to have means procured for you
of taking a voyage to America " avec surete," which
is not possible, as the dangers of the sea subsist
always, and at present there is the additional danger
of being taken by the English. Then you desire that
this may be ''sans trap grandes depenses," which is
not intelHgible enough to be answered, because, not
knowing your ability of bearing expenses, one cannot
judge what may be trap grandes. Lastly, you desire
letters of address to the Congress and to General
Washington ; which it is not reasonable to ask of one
who knows no more of you, than that your name is
Lith, and that you live at Bayreuth.

In your last you also express yourself in vague
terms, when you desire to be informed whether you
may expect "d'etre regu d'une maniere convenabW in
our troops. As it is impossible to know what your
ideas are of the maniere convenahle, how can one an-
swer this? And then you demand whether I will
support you by my authority in giving you letters of
recommendation. I doubt not your being a man of
merit ; and, knowing it yourself, you may forget that
it is not known to everybody; but reflect a moment,
sir, and you will be convinced that, if I were to prac-
tise giving letters of recommendation to persons of
whose character I knew no more than I do of yours,
my recommendations would soon be of no authority
at all.

I thank you, however, for your kind desire of being
serviceable to my countrymen; and I wish, in return,

1777] Benjamin Franklin 205

that I could be of service to you in the scheme you
have formed of going to America. But numbers of
experienced officers here have offered to go over and
join our army, and I could give them no encourage-
ment, because I have no orders for that purpose,
and I know it is extremely difficult to place them
when they arrive there. I cannot but think, there-
fore, that it is best for you not to make so long, so
expensive, and so hazardous a voyage, but to take
the advice of your friends, and ''stay in Franconia/'
I have the honor to be, sir, etc.,

B. Franklin.

DCLI

TO COUNT D ARANDA, SPANISH AMBASSADOR TO THE
COURT OF FRANCE

Passy, 7 April, 1777.

Sir: — I left in your Excellency's hands, to be com-
municated, if you please, to your court, a duplicate of
the commission from Congress, appointing me to go
to Spain as their Minister Plenipotentiary. But, as
I understand that the receiving such a minister is not
at present thought convenient, and I am sure the
Congress would have nothing done that might in-
commode in the least a court they so much respect,
I shall therefore postpone that journey till circum-
stances may make it more suitable. In the mean-
time I beg leave to lay before his Catholic Majesty,
through the hands of your Excellency, the proposi-

2o6 The Works of [1777

tions contained in a resolution of Congress, dated
December 30, 1776, viz.:

"That, if his Cathohc Majesty will join with the
United States in a war against Great Britain, they
will assist in reducing to the possession of Spain the
town and harbor of Pensacola ; provided the inhabi-
tants of the United States shall have the free naviga-
tion of the Mississippi, and the use of the harbor of
Pensacola; and will (provided it shall be true, that
his Portuguese Majesty has insultingly expelled the
vessels of these States from his ports, or has confis-
cated any such vessels) declare war against the said
king, if that measure shall be agreeable to, and sup-
ported by, the courts of France and Spain."

It is understood that the strictest union subsists
between those two courts; and in case Spain and
France should think fit to attempt the conquest of
the English sugar islands, Congress have further pro-
posed to furnish provisions to the amount of two
millions of dollars, and to join the fleet employed
on the occasion with six frigates of not less than
twenty -four guns each, manned and fitted for ser-
vice ; and to render any other assistance which may
be in their power, as becomes good allies, without
desiring for themselves the possession of any of the
said islands.

These propositions are subject to discussion, and
to receive such modification as may be found proper.
With great respect, I have the honor to be, etc.,

B. Franklin.

1777] Benjamin Franklin 207

DCLII

TO MR. RYBOT

Passy, 9 April, 1777.

Sir: — I believe it is very unusual for one man to
pay another's debts without being desired so to do
by the debtor, or knowing that he acknowledges the
sum demanded to be due. Mr. Hood is as much a
stranger to me as he is to you. You have lent him
three guineas; I have lent him thirty, supposing
him an honest man. By the account you give
me of his treatment of you, and which I do not
doubt, he appears to be otherwise; and from the
falsehoods he told you and wrote to you, there is rea-
son to question the truth of what he has said of his
estate and ability to pay. These are certainly no
inducements to me to advance more on his account.
The letters he brought for me were of small conse-
quence, and the packets contained only newspapers.
The benefit therefrom which you suppose I received
by your helping him on to Paris, is vastly less than
the damage I shall suffer by his coming thither, if I
am not repaid ; and I imagine that if a man entrusted
with carrying letters to you should obtain a credit
by showing them, you would hardly think yourself
obliged to pay his debts. In the memorandum you
left with me you have not given your address in
London. Send me that, if you please.

I shall take the same care and pains to recover
your money as my own, and when recovered shall
faithfully remit it to you. This seems to me all that

2o8 The Works of [1777

you can fairly desire of, sir, your most obedient,
humble servant,

B. Franklin.

DCLIII

TO RICHARD BACHE, ESQ.

Passy near Paris, 14 April, 1777.

Dear Son: — The bearer, Mr. Guez, being well
recommended to me as a skilful surgeon, and other-
wise of good character for his morals and prudence,
I recommend him to your civilities and advice, which
as a stranger he may have occasion for; and as he
has not sufficient to pay his passage here, and will
not be able to provide such a sum immediately
there, I desire you to advance it for him out of my
money left in your hands, and take his bond for
repayment in a year. I request likewise that you
will endeavor to introduce him to some employment
either in the army or navy; or if those are full, into
some town or place where one of his profession may
be wanted. Ben and Temple continue well, with
your affectionate father, B. Franklin.

DCLIV

TO THE BISHOP OF TRICOMIE

Passy, 22 April, 1777.

Reverend Sir : — Mr. Mercley, whom your Rever-
ence mentions as having made promises to Mon-

1777] Benjamin Franklin 209

sieur, your brother, was employed as a merchant to
purchase some military stores for the Congress, but
I know of no authority that he had to engage officers
of the marine, or to make any promises to such in
our behalf. I have not myself (as I have already had
the honor of telling your Reverence) the least author-
ity from the Congress to make promises to officers
to encourage their going to America; and since my
arrival in France I have constantly dissuaded all who
have applied to me, from undertaking the voyage,
as I know how difficult it would be for them to find
employment, a few engineers and officers of the
artillery excepted, who are gone. Nevertheless if
your brother continues resolved to go thither at his
own expense and risk of finding or not finding em-
ployment, which I cannot advise him to do, I will
give him letters of introduction to gentlemen there,
recommending him to their civilities ; but I must at
the same time caution him against having any reli-
ance on those letters as a means of procuring him a
command in our armies, since I am by no means sure
they will have any such effect. I will, if you please,
give him a letter to General Washington; but then
I should have the state of his services to enclose ; and
if accompanied with recommendations from some
general officers of note, it will be so much the better.

My door is never shut to your Reverence when I
am at home, as I am almost every evening.

With great respect I have the honor to be, your
Reverence's most obedient and most humble
servant,

B. Franklin.

2IO The Works of [1777

DCLV

TO HIS EXCELLENCY THE VISCOUNT DE PONTE DE
LIMA, MINISTER FOR FOREIGN AFFAIRS OF THE
KINGDOM OF PORTUGAL

Paris, 26 April, 1777.

Sir: — The Congress of the United States of
America have seen with concern in the public news-
papers an edict of the late King of Portugal, dated
at the Palace of Ajuda the 4th of July, 1776, wherein
the States are spoken of in terms of contumely, and all
ships belonging to their people then in the ports of
Portugal are ordered to quit the same in eight days ;
and that for the future in all the ports of the Portu-
guese dominions no shelter shall be given to any
vessels laden or in ballast coming from any of the
ports of the said States; but on the contrary they
are to be repelled from the said ports, and in the con-
dition they entered, without giving them the least
succor of any kind whatsoever.

As a long friendship and commerce has subsisted
between the Portuguese and the inhabitants of North
America, whereby Portugal has been supplied with
the most necessary commodities in exchange for her
superfluities, and not the least injury has ever been
committed or even attempted or imagined by Amer-
ica to that kingdom, the United States cannot but
be astonished to find not only their commerce re-
jected, but their navigators who may need a port
when in distress refused the common rights of hu-
manity, a conduct towards the said States not only
unprecedented, but which we are confident will not

1777] Benjamin Franklin 211

be followed by any other power in Europe; all the
rest having considered our difference with and sepa-
ration from England as a matter of which they were
not constituted judges, and therefore have not under-
taken to condemn either party, without hearing or
enquiry, but allow our ships of all kinds the same
freedom of their ports as is allowed to those be-
longing to England and the same privileges of
commerce. We, therefore, being Ministers of the
Congress of the said United States, have been charged
by them to represent to your court their sincere
desire to live in peace with all mankind, and par-
ticularly with your nation, which they have ever
esteemed and respected; and that they hope your
government in its wisdom will reconsider and revoke
the said edict, and permit the continuance of the
said friendly and commercial intercourse between
your people and theirs, which has ever been so ad-
vantageous to both. This representation we ac-
cordingly hereby make; and as an early step to
growing misunderstandings may have beneficial
consequences to all concerned, we cannot but hope
for a favorable and speedy answer.

With great regard, we have the honor to be, etc.

DCLVI

TO HIS EXCELLENCY THE AMBASSADOR FROM
PORTUGAL

Paris, 26 April, 1777.

Sir: — The Congress of the United States of Amer-
ica have seen a paper purporting to be an edict of

212 The Works of [1777

His Portuguese Majesty, dated at the Palace of
Ajuda the 4th of July, 1776, in which the said States
are treated with contumely, their ships however dis-
tressed, forbidden to enter any port in his dominions,
and his subjects everywhere forbidden to afford them
the least shelter or relief. But as this instrument
has not been communicated to the Congress with any
circumstance of authenticity, and appears only in
gazettes which frequently contain fictitious pieces
not to be relied on; as a long friendship and com-
merce has subsisted between the Portuguese and the
inhabitants of North America, whereby Portugal has
been supplied with the most necessary commodities
in exchange for her superfluities, and not the least
injury has ever been committed or even offered by
America to that kingdom, the United States can
scarcely bring themselves to believe that the said
edict is genuine, and that Portugal, which, but little
more than a century since, was with respect to its
former government in a situation similar to theirs,
should be the first to reproach them with it as a
crime that rendered them unworthy of the common
rights of humanity, and should be the only power in
Europe that has rejected their commerce and as-
sumed to judge of their cause, and condemn them
without authority, hearing, or enquiry. We, there-
fore, being Ministers of the Congress of the said
United States, have been charged by them to repre-
sent to his most faithful Majesty their sincere desire
to live in peace with all mankind, and particularly
with his nation ; that if he has been by their enemies
surprised into the issuing such an edict, he would be

1777] Benjamin Franklin 213

pleased in his wisdom to reconsider and revoke it;
and that he would henceforth permit the continu-
ance of the said friendly and commercial intercourse
between his people and theirs, which has ever been
so advantageous to both. This representation we
now take the liberty of making to your court through
the medium of your Excellency; and whatever
might have been its reception if it had been made
before the late change, we do not now allow ourselves
to doubt of its having in due time a favorable an-
swer, being persuaded from the equitable character
of the present government that the measure in
question cannot be approved of, and such unworthy
treatment continued towards an inoffensive and
friendly people.

With great respect, we have the honor to be your
Excellency's most obedient and most humble ser-
vants,

B. Franklin,
Silas Deane,
Arthur Lee,
Commissioners Plenipotentiary for the United
States of North America.

DCLVII

TO THOMAS GUSHING

Paris, i May, 1777.

Sir: — I thank you for your kind congratulations
on my arrival here, and shall be happy in finding

214 The Works of [1777

that our negotiations on this side of the water are of
effectual service to our country.

The general news here is that all Europe is arming
and preparing for war, as if it were soon expected.
Many of the powers, however, have their reasons for
endeavoring to postpone it, at least a few months
longer.

Our enemies will not be able to send against us all
the strength they intended; they can procure but
few Germans ; and their recruiting and impressing at
home goes on but heavily. They threaten, however,
and give out that Lord Howe is to bombard Boston
this summer, and Burgoyne, with the troops from
Canada, to destroy Providence and lay waste Con-
necticut, while Howe marches against Philadelphia.
They will do us undoubtedly as much mischief as
they can ; but the virtue and bravery of our country-
men will, with the blessing of God, prevent part of
what they intend, and nobly bear the rest. This
campaign is entered upon with a mixture of rage and
despair, as their whole scheme of reducing us depends
upon its success ; the wisest of the nation being clear
that, if this fails, administration will not be able to
support another.

B. Franklin.

DCLVni

TO SAMUEL COOPER

Paris, i May, 1777.

I thank you for your kind congratulations on my
safe arrival here, and for your good wishes. I am, as

1777] Benjamin Franklin 215

you supposed, treated with great civility and respect
by all orders of people ; but it gives me still greater
satisfaction to find that our being here is of some use
to our country. On that head I cannot be more
explicit at present.

I rejoice with you in the happy change of affairs in
America last winter. I hope the same train of suc-
cess will continue through the summer. Our ene-
mies are disappointed in the number of additional
troops they purposed to send over. What they have
been able to muster will not probably recruit their
army to the state it was in the beginning of last cam-
paign; and ours, I hope, will be equally numerous,
better armed, and better clothed than they have been
heretofore.

All Europe is on our side of the question, as far
as applause and good wishes can carry them. Those
who live under arbitrary power do nevertheless ap-
prove of liberty, and wish for it ; they almost despair
of recovering it in Europe; they read the transla-
tions of our separate colony constitutions with rap-
ture; and there are such numbers everywhere, who
talk of removing to America, with their families and
fortunes, as soon as peace and our independence
shall be established, that it is generally believed we
shall have a prodigious addition of strength, wealth,
and arts, from the emigration of Europe; and it is
thought that to lessen or prevent such emigrations,
the tyrannies established there must relax, and allow
more liberty to their people. Hence it is a common
observation here that our cause is the cause of all
mankind, and that we are fighting for their liberty

2i6 The Works of [1777

in defending our own. It is a glorious task assigned
us by Providence, which has, I trust, given us spirit
and virtue equal to it, and will at last crown it with
success. I am ever, my dear friend, yours most
affectionately,

B. Franklin.

DCLIX

TO JOHN WINTHROP

Paris, i May, 1777.

Dear Sir: — I received your kind letter of Febru-
ary 28th, which gave me great pleasure. I forwarded
your letter to Dr. Price, who was well lately; but his
friends, on his account, were under some apprehen-
sions from the violence of government, in conse-
quence of his late excellent publications in favor of
liberty. I wish all the friends of liberty and of man
would quit that sink of corruption and leave it to its
fate.

The people of this country are almost unanimously
in our favor. The government has its reasons for
postponing a war, but is making daily the most dili-
gent preparations, wherein Spain goes hand in hand.
In the meantime America has the whole harvest of
prizes made upon the British commerce, a kind of
monopoly that has its advantages, as, by affording
greater encouragement to our cruisers, it increases
the number of our seamen, and thereby augments our
naval power.

The conduct of those princes of Germany who

1777] Benjamin Franklin 217

have sold the blood of their people has subjected
them to the contempt and odium of all Europe. The
Prince of Anspach, whose recruits mutinied and
refused to march, was obliged to disarm and fetter
them, and drive them to the seaside by the help of
his guards, himself attending in person. In his re-
turn he was publicly hooted by mobs through every
town he passed in Holland, with all sorts of reproach-
ful epithets. The King of Prussia's humor of oblig-
ing those princes to pay him the same toll per head
for the men they drive through his dominions, as used
to be paid him for their cattle, because they were sold
as such, is generally spoken of with approbation, as
containing a just reproof to those tyrants. I send
you enclosed one of the many satires that have ap-
peared on this occasion. '

^ This practical joke of Frederick's was fully warranted by the nature
of the traffic in which his fellow-sovereigns were embarked. George
III., in one of his letters to Lord North, dated from Kew, August 20,
177s, said:

"As to the proposals transmitted by Mr. Romer, they all end in
corps of officers, which cannot be done but by act of Parliament ; the
only idea these Germans ought to addopt (sic) is the being contractors
for raising recruits and fixing the price they will deliver them at Ham-
burg, Rotterdam, and any other port they may propose."

This is very much in the style of a cattle-trader.

Schiller, in his Kabalc und Licbe, Act II., Scene 2, glances at the
ill repute in which this white slave-trading was held in Germany; and
in a letter from Frederick to Voltaire we have his opinion again :

"Je vous remercie du 'Catechism, des Souverains,' production que
je n'attendais pas de M. le Landgrave de Hesse. Vous me faites trop
d'honnetir de m'attribuer son education. S'il etait sorti de mon ecole,
il ne se serait point fait Catholique, et il n'aiirait pas vendu ses sujets
aux Anglais comme on vend le betail potir I'egorger." — CEuvres
posih. de Frederic tom. I., p. 325.

The sympathies of Frederick in these days were all with the French
and Americans as against England. The writer of the Correspon-

2i8 The Works of [1777

With best wishes of prosperity to yourself and to
my dear country, where I hope to spend my last
years, and lay my bones, I am ever, dear sir, your
affectionate friend, B. Franklin.

DCLX

TO A FRIEND

Passy [date uncertain].

You know, my dear friend, that I am not capable
of refusing you any thing in my power, which would
be a real kindness to you, or any friend of yours; but,
when I am certain that what you request would be
directly the contrary, I ought to refuse it. I know
that officers going to America for employment will
probably be disappointed ; that our armies are full ;
that there are a number of expectants unemployed,

dance, secrete et inedite, sur Louis XVI., Marie Antoinette, etc., says,
under date of November 3, 1777, Vol. I., p. 108:

" In a letter which the King of Prussia has written to one of his lit-
erary correspondents in Paris, this passage occurs: 'I send you my
secret against hydrophobia; it is certain that it has failed in none of
the trials I have given it here. It should be administered to the
British Parliament, which acts Hke an infuriated fool in the American
business. It is now about to embroil itself again with Russia. I
have the abiding hope that you will don your cuirass against this
God dem; that you will aid the colonies to become free, and retake
Canada, which they so wrongfully took from you. It is the wish of
my heart, and it should be also the dictate of policy."

The same authority cites another letter from the same source to
D'Alembert, just two weeks later, in which the king says: "I like
these brave fellows, and cannot help secretly hoping for their success.
It must be admitted that you are very pacific."

In less than three months from this time the alliance between the
colonies and France was signed.

1777] Benjamin Franklin 219

and starving for want of subsistence ; that my recom-
mendation will not make vacancies, nor can it fill
them, to the prejudice of those who have a better
claim; that some of those officers I have been pre-
vailed on to recommend have, by their conduct,
given no favorable impression of my judgment in
military merit ; and then the voyage is long, the pas-
sage very expensive, and the hazard of being taken
and imprisoned by the English very considerable.
If, after all, no place can be found affording a liveli-
hood for the gentleman in question, he will perhaps
be distressed in a strange country, and ready to
blaspheme his friends, who, by their solicitations,
procured for him so unhappy a situation.

Permit me to mention to you, that, in my opinion,
the natural complaisance of this country often carries
people too far in the article of recommendations. You
give them with too much facility to persons of whose
real characters you know nothing, and sometimes
at the request of others of whom you know as little.
Frequently, if a man has no useful talents, is good
for nothing and burdensome to his relations, or is in-
discreet, profligate, and extravagant, they are glad to
get rid of him by sending him to the other end of the
world; and for that purpose scruple not to recom-
mend him to those they wish should recommend him
to others as '' un bon sujet, plein de merite,'' etc., etc.
In consequence of my crediting such recommenda-
tions, my own are out of credit, and I cannot advise
anybody to have the least dependence on them. If,
after knowing this, you persist in desiring my recom-
mendation for this person, who is known neither to

220 The Works of [1777

me nor to you, I will give it, though, as I said before,
I ought to refuse it.*

These applications are my perpetual torment.
People will believe, notwithstanding my repeated
declarations to the contrary, that I am sent hither to
engage officers. In truth, I never had any such
orders. It was never so much as intimated to me,
that it would be agreeable to my constituents. I
have even received for what I have done of the kind,
not indeed an absolute rebuke, but some pretty
strong hints of disapprobation. Not a day passes
in which I have not a number of soliciting visits,
besides letters. If I could gratify all, or any of them,
it would be a pleasure. I might, indeed, give them
the recommendation and the promises they desire,
and thereby please them for the present; but, when
the certain disappointment of the expectations with

* For cases of this kind, and where it was absolutely impossible to
refuse, Dr. Franklin drew up the following as a model for such letters
of recommendation, and actually employed it in some instances, to
shame the persons making such indiscreet applications; and to en-
deavor, in some measure, to put a stop to them. — ^W. T. F.

Model of a Letter of Recommendation of a person you are unacquainted

with.

" Paris, 2 April, 1777.

"Sir: — The bearer of this, who is going to America, presses me to
give him a letter of recommendation, though I know nothing of him,
not even his name. This may seem extraordinary, but I assure you
it is not uncommon here. Sometimes, indeed, one xanknown person
brings another equally unknown, to recommend him; and sometimes
they recommend one another! As to this gentleman, I must refer
you to himself for his character and merits, with which he is certainly
better acquainted than I can possibly be. I recommend him, however,
to those civilities, which every stranger, of whom one knows no harm,
has a right to; and I request you will do him all the good oflfices, and
show him all the favor, that, on further acquaintance, you shall find
him to deserve. I have the honor to be, etc."

1777] Benjamin Franklin 221

which they will so obstinately flatter themselves
shall arrive, they must curse me for complying with
their mad requests, and not undeceiving them; and
will become so many enemies to our cause and
country.

You can have no conception how I am harassed.
All my friends are sought out and teazed to teaze me.
Great officers of all ranks, in all departments; ladies,
great and small, besides professed solicitors, worry
me from morning to night. The noise of every coach
now that enters my court terrifies me. I am afraid
to accept an invitation to dine abroad, being almost
sure of meeting with some officer or officer's friend,
who, as soon as I am put in good humor by a glass
or two of champagne, begins his attack upon me.
Luckily I do not often in my sleep dream of these
vexatious situations, or I should be afraid of what are
now my only hours of comfort. If, therefore, you
have the least remaining kindness for me, if you
would not help to drive me out of France, for God's
sake, my dear friend, let this, your twenty-third
application, be your last. Yours, etc.,

B. Franklin.

DCLXI

TO GEORGE WASHINGTON

Paris, 13 June, 1777.

Sir: — The bearer, M. le Comte Kotkouski, a
Polish officer, is recommended to me by several per-
sons of worth here, as a man of experience in military

222 The Works of [1777

affairs, and of tried bravery. He has lost his family
and estate in Poland, by fighting there in the cause
of liberty, and wishes, by engaging in the same cause,
to find a new country and new friends in America.
Count Pulaski, who was a general of the confederates
in Poland, and who is gone to join you, is esteemed
one of the greatest officers in Europe. He can give
you the character of this M. Kotkouski, who served
under him as lieutenant-colonel.

It is with regret that I give letters of introduction
to foreign officers, fearing that you may be troubled
with more than you can provide for, or employ to
their and your own satisfaction. When particular
cases seem to have a claim to such letters, I hope
you will excuse my taking the liberty. I give no
expectations to those who apply for them ; I promise
nothing; I acquaint them, that their being placed
when they arrive is a great uncertainty, and that, the
voyage being long, expensive, and hazardous, I coun-
sel them not to undertake it. This honest gentle-
man's zeal is not to be discouraged by such means;
he determines to go and serve as a volunteer, if he
cannot be employed immediately as an officer ; but I
wish and hope that your Excellency may find a better
situation for him, and that he will be a useful officer.
He has the advantage of understanding English, and
will soon speak it intelligently. He also speaks Ger-
man, and some other European languages, and the
Latin. With the truest esteem and respect, I have
the honor to be, etc.,

B. Franklin.

17773 Benjamin Franklin 223

DCLXII

TO GEORGE WASHINGTON

Paris, 13 June, 1777.

Sir: — The person who will have the honor of de-
livering this to your Excellency is Monsieur le Baron
de Frey, who is well recommended to me as an officer
of experience and merit, with a request that I would
give him a letter of introduction. I have acquainted
him that you are rather overstocked with officers, and
that his obtaining employment in your army is an un-
certainty ; but his zeal for the American cause is too
great for any discouragements I can lay before him,
and he goes over at his own expense, to take his
chance, which is a mark of attachment that merits
our regard. He will show your Excellency the com-
missions and proofs of his military service hitherto,
and I beg leave to recommend him to your notice.
With the sincerest esteem and respect,

B. Franklin.

DCLXIII

TO CAPT. JOHNSON

Passy, July 22, 1777.

Sir: — The bearer, M. Le Chevr. de Kninon, who
is desirous of going to America, is well recommended
to me as a person of character and merit. If he takes
his passage with you, I make no doubt that you will
treat him with all the civilities due to a gentleman, in
which you will very much oblige, sir, etc.,

B. Franklin.

224 The Works of [1777

DCLXIV

TO GEN. WASHINGTON

Passy near Paris, 4 September, 1777.

Sir : — The gentleman who will have the honor of
waiting upon you with this letter is the Baron de
Steuben, lately a lieutenant-general in the king of
Prussia's service, whom he attended in all his cam-
paigns, being his aide-de-camp, quartermaster-gen-
eral, etc. He goes to America with a true zeal for
our cause, and a view of engaging in it and render-
ing it all the service in his power. He is recom-
mended to us by two of the best judges of military
merit in this country, M. de Vergennes and M. de St.
Germain, who have long been personally acquainted
with him, and interest themselves in promoting his
voyage, from a full persuasion that the knowledge
and experience he has acquired by twenty years'
study and practice in the Prussian school may be of
great use in our armies. I therefore cannot but wish
that our service may be made agreeable to him.

I have the honor to be, etc.

DCLXV

TO RICHARD PETERS

Passy, 12 September, 1777.

Sir: — The bearer, M. Gerard, is recommended to
me by M. Dubourg, a gentleman of distinction here,
and a hearty friend to our cause. I enclose his let-

1777] Benjamin Franklin 225

ter, that you may see the favorable manner in which
he speaks of M. Gerard. I thereupon take the lib-
erty of recommending the young gentleman to your
civilities and advice, as he will be quite a stranger
there, and to request that you would put him in
the way of serving as a volunteer in our armies. I
am, sir, etc., B. Franklin.

DCLXVI

TO DAVID HARTLEY

Passy, 14 October, 1777.

Dear Sir: — I received duly your letter of May 2d,
including a copy of one you had sent me the year
before, which never came to hand, and which it
seems has been the case with some I wrote to you
from America. Filled though your letters have
always been with sentiments of good-will to both
countries, and earnest desires of preventing their
ruin and promoting their mutual felicity, I have
been apprehensive that, if it were known that a
correspondence subsisted between us, it might be
attended with inconvenience to you. I have there-
fore been backward in writing, not caring to trust
the post, and not well knowing whom else to trust
with my letters. But being now assured of a safe
conveyance, I venture to write to you, especially
as I think the subject such a one as you may receive
a letter upon without censure.

Happy should I have been if the honest warnings

226 The Works of [1777

I gave of the fatal separation of interests, as well as
of affections, that must attend the measures com-
menced while I was in England, had been attended
to, and the horrid mischief of this abominable war
been thereby prevented. I should still be happy in
any successful endeavors for restoring peace, con-
sistent with the liberties, the safety, and the honor of
America. As to our submitting to the government
of Great Britain, it is vain to think of it. She has
given us, by her numberless barbarities (by her
malice in bribing slaves to murder their masters,
and savages to massacre the families of farmers;
with her baseness in rewarding the unfaithfulness
of servants, and debauching the virtue of honest
seamen intrusted with our property) in the prose-
cution of the war, and in the treatment of the pris-
oners, so deep an impression of her depravity, that
we never again can trust her in the management of
our affairs and interests. It is now impossible to
persuade our people, as I long endeavored, that the
war was merely ministerial, and that the nation bore
still a good-will to us. The infinite number of ad-
dresses printed in your gazettes, all approving the
conduct of your government towards us, and en-
couraging our destruction by every possible means,
the great majority in Parliament constantly mani-
festing the same sentiments, and the popular public
rejoicings on occasion of any news of the slaughter
of an innocent and virtuous people, fighting onl}^
in defence of their just rights; these, together with
the recommendations of the same measures by even
your celebrated moralists and divines, in their writ-

1777] Benjamin Franklin 227

ings and sermons, that are still approved and ap-
plauded in your great national assemblies, all join
in convincing us that you are no longer the magnan-
imous, enlightened nation we once esteemed you, and
that you are unfit and unworthy to govern us, as not
being able to govern your own passions.

But, as I have said, I should be nevertheless happy
in seeing peace restored. For though, if my friends,
and the friends of liberty and virtue, who still remain
in England, could be drawn out of it, a continuance
of this vv^ar to the ruin of the rest would give me less
concern, I cannot, as that removal is impossible, but
wish for peace for their sakes, as well as for the sake
of humanity, and preventing further carnage.

This wish of mine, ineffective as it may be, induces
me to mention to you that, between nations long
exasperated against each other in war, some act of
generosity and kindness towards prisoners on one
side has softened resentment, and abated animosity
on the other, so as to bring on an accommodation.
You in England, if you wish for peace, have at
present the opportunity of trying this means with
regard to the prisoners now in your gaols. They
complain of very severe treatment. They are far
from their friends and families, and winter is coming
on, in which they must suffer extremely if continued
in their present situation: fed scantily on bad pro-
visions, without warm lodging, clothes, or fire, and
not suffered to invite or receive visits from their
friends, or even from the humane and charitable of
their enemies.

I can assure you, from my own certain knowledge,

228 The Works of [1777

that your people, prisoners in America, have beea
treated with great kindness; they have been served
with the same rations of wholesome provisions with
our own troops, comfortable lodgings have been
provided for them, and they have been allowed large
bounds of villages in the healthy air, to walk and
amuse themselves with on their parole. Where you
have thought fit to employ contractors to supply your
people, these contractors have been protected and
aided in their operations. Some considerable act of
kindness towards our people would take off the
reproach of inhumanity in that respect from the
nation, and leave it where it ought with more cer-
tainty to lie, on the conductors of your war in Amer-
ica. This I hint to you, out of some remaining
good-will to a nation I once loved sincerely. But,
as things are, and in my present temper of mind, not
being over-fond of receiving obligations, I shall con-
tent myself with proposing that your government
would allow us to send or employ a commissary to
take some care of those unfortunate people. Per-
haps on your representations this might speedily
be obtained in England, though it was refused most
inhumanly at New York.

If you could have leisure to visit the gaols in which
they are confined, and should be desirous of knowing
the truth relative to the treatment they receive, I
wish you would take the trouble of distributing
among the most necessitous, according to their wants,
five or six hundred pounds, for which your drafts on
me here shall be punctually honored. You could
then be able to speak with some certainty to the

1777] Benjamin Franklin 229

point in Parliament, and this might be attended with
good effects.

If you cannot obtain for us permission to send a
commissary, possibly you may find a trusty, humane,
discreet person at Plymouth, and another at Ports-
mouth, who would undertake to communicate what
relief we may be able to afford those unfortunate
men, martyrs to the cause of liberty. Your king will
not reward you for taking this trouble, but God will.
I shall not mention the gratitude of America; you
will have what is better — the applause of your own
good conscience. Our captains have set at liberty
above two hundred of your people, made prisoners
by our armed vessels and brought into France, be-
sides a great number dismissed at sea on your coasts,
to whom vessels were given to carry them in. But
you have not returned us a man in exchange. If we
had sold your people to the Moors at Sallee, as you
have many of ours to the African and East India
Companies, could you have complained ?

In revising what I have written, I found too much
warmth in it, and was about to strike out some parts.
Yet I let them go, as they will afford you this one
reflection: " If a man naturally cool, and rendered
still cooler by old age, is so warmed by our treatment
of his country, how much must those people in gen-
eral be exasperated against us? And why are we
making inveterate enemies by our barbarity, not only
of the present inhabitants of a great country, but of
their infinitely more numerous posterity, who will in
future ages detest the name of Englishman, as much
as the children in Holland now do those of Alva and

230 The Works of [1777

Spaniard/' This will certainly happen, unless your
conduct is speedily changed, and the national resent-
ment falls, where it ought to fall heavily, on your
ministry, or perhaps rather on the king, whose will
they only execute.

With the greatest esteem and affection, and best
wishes for your prosperity, I have the honor to be,
dear sir, etc., B. Franklin.

DCLXVII

TO A FRIEND ^

Passy, 14 October, 1777.

Sir: — I am much obliged by your communication
of the letter from England. I am of your opinion,
that it is not proper for publication here. Our
friend's expressions concerning Mr. Wilson will be
thought too angry to be made use of by one philoso-
pher when speaking of another, and on a philosophi-
cal question. He seems as much heated about this
one point as the Jansenists and Molinists were about
the five. As to my writing any thing on the subject,

^ A controversy had lately been raised among the philosophers in
England respecting pointed and blunt lightning conductors. Mr.
Wilson was the champion for bltint conductors, in opposition to the
theory of Dr. Franklin. Pointed conductors had been erected at the
queen's palace, but by the advice of Mr. Wilson they were taken
do-vvn, and blunt ones substituted in their place. Dr. Ingenhousz,
who was then in England, took tip the subject with considerable
warmth against Mr. Wilson, and wrote a letter to a gentleman in
Paris, which he desired might be shown to Dr. Franklin. The above
letter was written to that gentleman, who, as requested, had com-
municated the one he received from Dr. Ingenhousz.

1777] Benjamin Franklin 231

which you seem to desire, I think it not necessary,
especially as I have nothing to add to what I have
already said upon it in a paper read to the commit-
tee ' who ordered the conductors at Purfleet, which
paper is printed in the last French edition of my
writings.

I have never entered into any controversy in de-
fence of my philosophical opinions; I leave them to
take their chance in the world. If they are right,
truth and experience will support them; if wrong,
they ought to be refuted and rejected. Disputes are
apt to sour one's temper, and disturb one's quiet. I
have no private interest in the reception of my inven-
tions by the world, having never made, nor proposed
to make, the least profit by any of them. The king's
changing his pointed conductors for Hunt ones is,
therefore, a matter of small importance to me. If I
had a wish about it, it would be that he had rejected
them altogether as ineffectual. For it is only since
he thought himself and family safe from the thunder
of Heaven that he dared to use his own thunder in
destroying his innocent subjects. I am, sir, yours,
etc., B. Franklin.

DCLXVIII

TO CAPTAIN THOMPSON AND C. HINMAN

Paris, 25 November, 1777.

Sir: — We advise you on your return to L 'Orient
to put your ship in readiness for sea, — Capt. Hinman

^ "Report on Lightning Conductors for the Powder Magazines at
Purfleet," drawn up by Dr. Franklin, August 21, 1772. See that
date.

232 The Works of [1777

will do the same, — and after you have obtained the
best intelligence to be had of the British merchant-
ships and property. As it is by no means safe to re-
turn into the ports of France, you will calculate your
stores, so as to have a sufficiency for your cruise,
which we cannot indeed be particular in the direc-
tion of. It has been suggested that one or more of
the India ships returning may be intercepted, that
part of the West India homeward-bound ships may
be expected about this time, as well as transports re-
turning from New York and elsewhere in America,
and that by cruising in the proper latitudes you may
meet with them. That the British factories and
commerce on the African coast at this time lie with-
out any force sufficient to protect them, and that by
running along that coast you may greatly annoy and
distress the enemy in that quarter, and afterwards go
for the West Indies.

As you and Captain Hinman have already consid-
ered these several plans for a cruise, we leave with
you to determine which to prefer, and the manner
in prosecuting either, or any other that may appear
more likely to answer the design of your commission.
We are happy in observing the harmony and confi-
dence which subsists between you and Captain Hin-
man, and hope the same prevails between your
officers and men, which we are certain you will cul-
tivate through the whole of your expedition, in which
we recommend to you, to avoid giving any offence to
the flags of neutral powers, and to show them proper
marks of respect and friendship. As you may meet
with vessels of the enemy so near the coast of Eu-

1777] Benjamin Franklin 233

rope, that you may be under the necessity of sending
them into some port of France, we advise you to agree
with Messrs. Goularde, etc., on the method of conduct
in such case, previous to your departure, and give
orders to the officers to whom you give the command
of such prizes, accordingly thereto. Whenever you
judge it prudent to dismiss prisoners, subjects of his
Britannic Majesty, we advise you to take from them
in writing an acknowledgment of their having been
your prisoners, their quality, place of residence, and
that they are dismissed by you in confidence that an
equal number of the subjects of the thirteen United
States of the same rank, that now are, or may here-
after be prisoners to his said Britannic Majesty will
be set at liberty. You are also to deliver a cop}^ of
such writing to the prisoners, enjoining them to de-
liver the same on their arrival in Britain to the Lords
of the British Admiralty, and by the first opportunity
inclose a duplicate to the committee or board of
marine in Boston, and another to us, with an account
of your proceedings. We shall deliver Captain Hin-
man a copy of this letter, who will proceed in concert
with you in the cruise.

With best wishes — [incomplete]

DCLXIX

TO MR. THORNTON

You will receive herewith a letter to Lord North
and another to Sir Grey Cooper, Secretary of the

234 The Works of [1777

Treasur}^ to which you are to endeavor to obtain
answers.

As the purpose is to obtain permission to visit and
examine into the condition of our people in their
gaols, and administer to their relief, we hope a re-
quest so consonant to humanity will not be refused.
But if you cannot obtain such permission, yet (if not
absolutely forbidden) we desire you would endeavor
to see the prisoners, take an account of their names,
the rank or quality they served in, the state they
belonged to, in what vessel and by whom they were
taken, and such other particulars as may tend to give
us perfect information of their circumstances.

But before you leave London to visit the prisoners,
wait on Mr. Hartley (for whom also you have a letter
which you will deliver as soon as you arrive) and
desire his advice or orders; and if he should be so
kind as to give you any relating to the premises, you
are to follow the same pimctually in your future
proceedings.

You will receive herewith fifty guineas for travel-
ling expenses, of which you will render an account.

We wish you a good journey, being, sir, your most
humble servants.*

I On the 23d February of this year the Commissioners wrote to
Lord Stormont, the British Ambassador in Paris, proposing to ex-
change 100 British seamen, prisoners taken by the American frigate
Reprisal, for an equal number of American captives in England. Of
this letter Stormont took no notice. The Commissioners then wrote
another, which does not appear however to have been sent. They
then sent another, which Stormont acknowledged in these insolent
terms:

" The King's Ambassador receives no applications from rebels, unless
they come to implore his Majesty's mercy."

1777] Benjamin Franklin 235

DCLXX

TO SIR GREY COOPER

Paris, ii December, 1777.

Dear Sir : — Receiving frequent accounts by Amer-
ican prisoners who have escaped from your gaols, of
the miserable situation and hard treatment of their
countrymen at Portsmouth and Plymouth, we have
prevailed with a gentleman, Major Thornton (to us a
stranger, but who appears a man of humanity), to
visit the prisons there, and give from us some relief to
those unfortunate men. I hope that through your
interest he may obtain a permission for that purpose.
I have wished that some voluntary act of compassion
on the part of your government towards those in
your power had appeared in abating the rigors of
their confinement, and relieving their pressing neces-
sities, as such generosity towards enemies has natur-
ally an effect in softening and abating animosity in
their compatriots and disposing to reconciliation.
This, if I had any influence with your ministers I
should recommend as prudent ; being what would at

The Commissioners retiimed this missive with one signed by them-
selves and couched in the following terms :

"In answer to a letter which concerns some of the most material
interests of humanity and of the two nations, Great Britain and the
United States of America, now at war, we received the enclosed in-
decent paper as coming from your Lordship, which we return for your
Lordship's more mature consideration."

There were probably not a thousand Americans in the English
prisons, but they were badly treated and provoked a very voluminous
correspondence between agents of the governments, and a very
bitter feeling in America towards the English Government. For an
instructive review of this correspondence see Hale's Franklin in
France, Chap. XI.

236 The Works of [1777

least secure a continuance of that kind usage your
people have always experienced with us. Mr. Thorn-
ton is charged with a letter to Lord North, which I
request you would procure him an opportunity of
delivering, and endeavoring to obtain an answer;
perhaps it may not be thought proper to give any;
but I am sure it will not be an insolent one like that
from Lord Stormont to a similar application. The
remembrance of ancient friendship encourages me to
request this. If it is too much, you can prevent a
repetition of it by making no reply. With my
affectionate respects to Lady Cooper, and love to
my former young friends, I am ever, dear sir, your
most obedient, humble servant,

B. Franklin.

DCLXXI

TO JAMES LOVELL ^

Paris, 21 December, 1777.

Sir: — I see in a vote of Congress shown to me by
Captain Franval, that Mr. Deane is disowned in some
of his agreements with officers. I, who am upon the
spot, and know the infinite difficulty of resisting the
powerful solicitations of great men, who if disobliged
might have it in their power to obstruct the supplies
he was then obtaining, do not wonder that, being
then a stranger to the people, and unacquainted with

^ A member of Congress from Massachusetts, and for several years
a member of the Committee of Foreign Affairs, in which capacity he
corresponded with the American commissioners and ministers in
Europe,

I777I Benjamin Franklin 237

the language, he was at first prevailed on to make
some such agreements, when all were recommended,
as they always are, as offlciers experimentes, braves
comme leurs epees, pleins de courage, de talents, et de
zele pour notre cause, etc., etc., in short, mere Caesars,
each of whom would have been an invaluable acqui-
sition to America. You can have no conception how
we are still besieged and worried on this head, our
time cut to pieces by personal applications, besides
those contained in dozens of letters by every post,
which are so generally refused that scarce one in a
hundred obtains from us a simple recommendation to
civilities.

I hope, therefore, that favorable allowance will be
made to my worthy colleague on account of his situa-
tion at the time, as he has long since corrected that
mistake, and daily approved himself, to my certain
knowledge, an able, faithful, active, and extremely
useful servant of the public ; a testimony I think it
my duty of taking this occasion to make to his merit,
unasked, as, considering my great age, I may prob-
ably not live to give it personally in Congress, and I
perceive he has enemies. '

You will see the general news in the papers in par-
ticular; I can only say at present, that our affairs
go well here; and that I am, with much respect, sir,
etc., B. Franklin.

I Silas Deane was recalled by Congress, in November, 1776, mainly-
through the influence of Arthur Lee. Congress never formulated any
charges against him, neither did it pass any vote of censure or approba-
tion of his ofificial conduct. He returned to France in 1780, but felt
so aggrieved by the treatment he had received, that he finally allowed
himself to enter into relations with the English Government, which

238 The Works of [1777

DCLXXII

A DIALOGUE BETWEEN BRITAIN, FRANCE, SPAIN, HOL-
LAND, SAXONY, AND AMERICA

Britain. Sister of Spain, I have a favor to ask of
you. My subjects in America are disobedient, and I
am about to chastise them ; I beg you will not furnish
them with any arms or ammunition.

Spain. Have you forgotten, then, that when my
subjects in the Low Countries rebelled against me,
you not only furnished them with military stores, but
joined them with an army and a fleet? I wonder
how you can have the impudence to ask such a favor
of me, or the folly to expect it!

Britain. You, my dear sister France, will surely
not refuse me this favor.

France. Did you not assist my rebel Huguenots
with a fleet and an army at Rochelle? And have
you not lately aided privately and sneakingly my
rebel subjects in Corsica? And do you not at this
instant keep their chief pensioned, and ready to head
a fresh revolt there, whenever you can find or make
an opportunity? Dear sister, you must be a little
silly!

Britain. Honest Holland! You see it is remem-
bered I was once your friend; you will therefore be
mine on this occasion. I know, indeed, you are ac-
customed to smuggle with these rebels of mine. I
will wink at that ; sell them as much tea as you please,

compromised him seriously for a time at least, with his country people,
and failed to shield him from the humiliations of extreme poverty
and exile in his declining years.

1 77 7] Benjamin Franklin 239

to enervate the rascals, since they will not take it of
me; but for God's sake don't supply them with any
arms!

Holland. 'T is true you assisted me against Philip,
my tyrant of Spain, but have I not assisted you
against one of your tyrants *; and enabled you to
expel him? Surely that account, as we merchants
say, is balanced, and I am nothing in your debt. I
have indeed some complaints against you, for en-
deavoring to starve me by your Navigation Acts;
but, being peaceably disposed, I do not quarrel with
you for that. I shall only go on quietly with my
own business. Trade is my profession ; 't is all I
have to subsist on. And, let me tell you, I shall
make no scruple (on the prospect of a good market
for that commodity) even to send my ships to Hell
and supply the Devil with brimstone. For you
must know, I can insure in London against the burn-
ing of my sails.

America to Britain. Why, you old bloodthirsty
bully! You, who have been everywhere vaunting
your own prowess, and defaming the Americans as
poltroons ! You, who have boasted of being able to
march over all their bellies with a single regiment!
You, who by fraud have possessed yourself of their
strongest fortress, and all the arms they had stored
up in it ! You, who have a disciplined army in their
coimtry, intrenched to the teeth, and provided with
every thing! Do you run about begging all Europe
not to supply those poor people with a little powder
and shot? Do you mean, then, to fall upon them

I James the Second.

240 The Works of [1777

naked and unarmed, and butcher them in cold blood ?
Is this your courage? Is this your magnanimity?

Britain. Oh! you wicked— Whig — Presbyterian
— Serpent ! Have you the impudence to appear be-
fore me after all your disobedience? Surrender im-
mediately all your liberties and properties into my
hands, or I will cut you to pieces. Was it for this
that I planted your country at so great an expense ?
That I protected you in your infancy, and defended
you against all your enemies ?

America. I shall not surrender my liberty and
property, but with my life. It is not true, that my
country was planted at your expense. Your own
records ^ refute that falsehood to your face. Nor did
you ever afford me a man or a shilling to defend me
against the Indians, the only enemies I had upon my

^ See the Journals of the House of Commons, 1642, viz.:

"Die Veneris, Martii 10°, 1642.

"Whereas the plantations in New England have, by the blessing of
Almighty God, had good and prosperous success, without any public
charge to this State; and are now likely to prove very happy for the
propagation of the Gospel in those parts, and very beneficial and com-
modious to this kingdom and nation ; the Commons now assembled in
Parliament do, for the better advancement of those plantations, and
the encouragement of the planters to proceed in their undertaking,
ordain, that all merchandises and goods, that by any merchant, or
other person or persons whatsoever, shall be exported out of this
kingdom of England into New England, to be spent, used, or employed
there; or, being of the growth of that kingdom, shall be from thence
imported hither, or shall be laden or put on board in any ship or vessel
for necessaries in passing or returning to and fro; and all and every
the owner or owners thereof, shall be freed and discharged of and
from paying and yielding any custom, subsidy, taxation, imposition,
or other duty for the same, either inward or outward, either in this
kingdom or New England, or in any port, haven, creek, or other
place whatsoever, until the House of Commons shall take further
order therein to the contrary. And all and singular customers, etc.,
are to observe this order."

1777] Benjamin Franklin 241

own account. But, when you have quarrelled with
all Europe, and drawn me with you into all your
broils, then you value yourself upon protecting me
from the enemies you have made for me. I have no
natural cause of difference with Spain, France, or
Holland, and yet by turns I have joined with you in
wars against them all. You would not suffer me to
make or keep a separate peace with any of them,
though I might easily have done it to great advan-
tage. Does your protecting me in those wars give
you a right to fleece me? If so, as I fought for you,
as well as you for me, it gives me a proportionable
right to fleece you. What think you of an American
law to make a monopoly of you and your commerce,
as you have done by your laws of me and mine?
Content yourself with that monopoly if you are wise,
and learn justice if you would be respected !

Britain. You impudent b h ! Am not I your

mother country? Is not that a sufficient title to
your respect and obedience ?

Saxony. Mother country! Ha! ha! ha! What
respect have you the front to claim as a mother coun-
try ? You know that / am your mother country, and
yet you pay me none. Nay, it is but the other day
that you hired ruffians ^ to rob me on the highway ^
and bum my house ! ^ For shame ! Hide your face
and hold your tongue ! If you continue this conduct,
you will make yourself the contempt of Europe !

Britain. O Lord ! Where are my friends ?

1 Prussians.

2 They entered and raised contributions in Saxony.

3 And they burnt the fine suburbs of Dresden, the capital of Saxony.

VOL. VII.— 16.

242 The Works of [1777

France, Spain, Holland, and Saxony, all together.
Friends! Believe us, you have none, nor ever will
have any, till you mend your manners. How can
we who are your neighbors have any regard for you,
or expect any equity from you, should your power
increase, when we see how basely and unjustly you
have used both your own mother and your own
children?

DCLXXIII

A CATECHISM RELATIVE TO THE ENGLISH NATIONAL
DEBT

Question i. Supposing this debt to be only one
hundred and ninety-five millions of pounds sterling
at present, although it is much more," and that was all
to be counted in shillings, that a man could count at
the rate of one hundred shillings per minute, for
twelve hours each day till he has counted the whole,
how long would he take in doing it ?

Answer. One hundred and forty-eight years one
hundred and nine days and twenty -two hours.

Q. 2. The whole of this sum being three thousand
nine hundred millions of shillings, and the coinage
standard being sixty-two in the Troy pound, what is
the whole weight of this sum?

A. Sixty-one millions seven hundred and fifty-
two thousand four hundred and seventy-six Troy
pounds.

» At present it is said to be at least two htmdred and thirty
millions.

1777] Benjamin Franklin 243

Q. 3. How many ships would carry this weight,
suppose one hundred tons each?

A. Three hundred and fourteen ships.

Q. 4. How many carts would carry this weight,
suppose a ton in each ?

A. Thirty-one thousand four hundred and fifty-
two carts.

Q. 5. The breadth of a shiUing being one inch, if
all these shillings were laid in a straight line, close to
one another's edges, how long would that line be that
would contain them?

A. Sixty-one thousand five hundred and fifty-
two miles ; which is nine thousand five hundred and
seventy-two miles more than twice roimd the whole
circumference of the earth.

Q. 6. Suppose the interest of this debt to be three
and a half per cent, per annum, what does the whole
annual interest amount to ?

A . Six millions seven hundred and seventy thou-
sand pounds.

Q. 7 . How doth the government raise this interest
annually ?

A. By taxing those who lent the principal, and
others.

Q. 8. When will government be able to pay the
principal ?

A. When there is more money in England's
treasury than there is in all Europe.

Q. 9. And when will that be?

A. Never.

244 The Works of [1778

DCLXXIV

TO RALPH IZARD

Passy, 29 January, 1778.

Dear Sir: — I received yours late last evening.
Present circumstances, which I will explain to you
when I have the honor of seeing you, prevent my
giving it a full answer now. The reasons you offer
had before been all under consideration. But I must
submit to remain some days under the opinion you
appear to have formed, not only of my poor under-
standing in the general interests of America, but of
my defects in sincerity, politeness, and attention to
your instructions. These offences, I flatter myself,
admit of fair excuses, or rather will be found not to
have existed. You mention that you feel yourself
hurt. Permit me to offer you a maxim, which has
through life been of use to me, and may be so to you,
in preventing such imaginary hurts. It is: " Always
to suppose one's friends may be right, till one finds
them wrong, rather than to suppose them wrong till
one finds them right." You have heard and imag-
ined all that can be said or supposed on one side of
the question, but not on the other. I am, neverthe-
less, with sincere esteem, dear sir, your most obedi-
ent and humble servant, B. Franklin.^

I Mr. Izard was selected by Congress as a Commissioner to go to
Tuscany. As there was nothing for him to do there at the time, he
tarried in Paris. The treaty of alliance was negotiated during his
stay, but his advice or aid appears not to have been solicited. He
complained of this to Dr. Frankhn, whom he seemed disposed to hold
responsible for what he regarded as a lack of official courtesy. This
letter is the reply to his complaint. Izard's letter may be found in
the Diplomatic Correspondence, Vol. II., p. 372.— Editor.

1778] Benjamin Franklin 245

DCLXXV

TO JAMES HUTTON ^

Passy, I February, 1778

My Dear Old Friend:— You desired that if I
had no proposition to make I would at least give my
advice. I think it is Ariosto who says that all things
lost on earth are to be found in the moon; on which
somebody remarked that there must be a great deal
of good advice in the moon. If so, there is a good
deal of mine, formerly given and lost in this business
1 will, however, at your request give a little more
but without the least expectation that it will be fol-
lowed; for none but God can at the same time give
good counsel and wisdom to make use of it.

You have lost by this mad war, and the barbarity
with which it has been carried on, not only the gov-
ernment and commerce of America, and the public
revenues and private wealth arising from that com-
merce, but what is more, you have lost the esteem,
respect, friendship, and affection of all that great
and growing people, who consider you at present, and
whose posterity will consider you, as the worst and
wickedest nation upon earth. A peace you may un-
doubtedly obtain by dropping all your pretensions to
govern us; and, by your superior skill in huckstering
negotiation, you may possibly make such an appar-

246 The Works of [1778

ently advantageous bargain, as shall be applauded in
your Parliament; but, if you cannot, with the peace,
recover the affections of that people, it will not be a
lasting nor a profitable one, nor will it afford you
any part of that strength, which you once had by
your union with them, and might (if you had been
wise enough to take advice) have still retained.

To recover their respect and affection, you must
tread back the steps you have taken. Instead of
honoring and rewarding the American advisers and
promoters of this war, you should disgrace them,
with all those who have inflamed the nation against
America by their malicious writings, and all the min-
isters and generals who have prosecuted the war with
such inhumanity. This would show a national
change of disposition, and a disapprobation of what
had passed.

In proposing terms you should not only grant such
as the necessity of your affairs may evidently oblige
you to grant, but such additional ones as may show
your generosity, and thereby demonstrate your good-
will. For instance, perhaps you might, by your
treaty, retain all Canada, Nova Scotia, and the Flor-
idas. But if you would have a real friendly as well
as able ally in America, and avoid all occasion of fu-
ture discord, which will otherwise be continually
arising on your American frontiers, you should throw
in those countries. And you may call it, if you
please, an indemnification for the burning of their
towns, which indemnification will otherwise be some
time or other demanded.

I know your people will not see the utility of such

1778] Benjamin Franklin 247

measures, and will never follow them, and even call it
insolence and impudence in me to mention them. I
have, however, complied with your desire, and am, as
ever, your affectionate friend, B. Franklin.

P. S. — February 12th. — I wrote the above some
time before I received yours, acquainting me with
your speedy and safe return, which gave me pleasure.
I doubted after I had written it, whether it would be
well to send it; for as your proud nation despises
us exceedingly, and demands and expects absolute
and humble submission, all talk of treaty must ap-
pear impudence, and tend to provoke rather than
conciliate. As you still press me by your last to say
something, I conclude to send what I have written,
for I think the advice is good, though it must be use-
less; and I cannot, as some amongst you desire,
make propositions, having none committed to me to
make ; but we can treat, if any are made to us ; which,
however, we do not expect. I abominate with you
all murder, and I may add, that the slaughter of men
in an unjust cause is nothing less than murder. I
therefore never think of your present ministers and
their abettors, but with the image, strongly painted
in my view, of their hands, red, wet, and dropping
with the blood of my countrymen, friends, and rela-
tions. No peace can be signed by those hands.
Peace and friendship will, nevertheless, subsist for
ever between Mr. Hutton and his affectionate friend,

B. F.

248 The Works of [1773

DCLXXVI

TO DAVID HARTLEY

Passy, 12 February, 1778.

Dear Sir: — A thousand thanks for your so readily
engaging in the means of relieving our poor captives,
and the pains you have taken, and the advances you
have made, for that purpose. I received your kind
letter of the 3d instant, and send you enclosed a bill
of one hundred pounds. I much approve of Mr.
Wren's prudent as well as benevolent conduct in the
disposition of the money, and wish him to continue
doing what shall appear to him and to you to be
right, which I am persuaded will appear the same to
me and my colleagues here. I beg you will present
him, when you write, my respectful acknowledgments.

Your "earnest caution and request, that nothing
may ever persuade America to throw themselves into
the arms of France, for that times may mend, and
that an American must always be a stranger in
France, but that Great Britain may for ages to come
be their home," marks the goodness of your heart,
your regard for us, and love of your country. But,
when your nation is hiring all the cut-throats it can
collect, of all countries and colors, to destroy us, it is
hard to persuade us not to ask or accept aid from
any power that may be prevailed with to grant it;
and this only from the hope that, though you now
thirst for our blood, and pursue us with fire and
sword, you may, in some future time, treat us kindly.
This is too much patience to be expected of us; in-
deed, I think it is not in human nature.

1778] Benjamin Franklin 249

The Americans are received and treated here in
France with a cordiality, a respect, and affection they
never experienced in England when they most de-
served it ; and which is now (after all the pains taken
to exasperate the English against them, and render
them odious as well as contemptible) less to be ex-
pected there than ever. And I cannot see why we
may not, upon an alliance, hope for a continuance of
it, at least, as much as the Swiss enjoy, with whom
France has maintained a faithful friendship for two
hundred years past, and whose people appear to live
here in as much esteem as the natives. America has
been forced and driven into the arms of France. She
was a dutiful and virtuous daughter. A cruel moth-
er-in-law turned her out of doors, defamed her, and
sought her life. All the world knows her innocence,
and takes her part ; and her friends hope soon to see
her honorably married. They can never persuade
her return and submission to so barbarous an enemy.
In her future prosperity, if she forgets and forgives,
it is all that can be reasonably expected of her. I be-
lieve she will make as good and useful a wife as she
did a daughter, that her husband will love and honor
her, and that the family from which she was so wick-
edly expelled, will long regret the loss of her.

I know not whether a peace with us is desired in
England; I rather think it is not at present, unless
on the old impossible terms of submission and receiv-
ing pardon . Whenever you shall be disposed to make
peace upon equal and reasonable terms, you will find
Httle difficulty, if you get first an honest ministry.
The present have all along acted so deceitfully and

250 The Works of [1778

treacherously, as well as inhumanly, towards the
Americans, that I imagine that the absolute want of
all confidence in them to make a treaty, at present,
between them and the Congress impracticable.

The subscription for the prisoners will have excel-
lent effects in favor of England and Englishmen.
The Scotch subscriptions for raising troops to destroy
us, though amounting to much greater sums, v/ill not
do their nation half so much good. If you have an
opportunity, I wish you would express our respectful
acknowledgments and thanks to your committee and
contributors, whose benefactions will make our poor
people as comfortable as their situation can permit.
Adieu, my dear friend. Accept my thanks for the
excellent papers you enclosed to me. Your endeav-
ors for peace, though unsuccessful, will always be a
comfort to you, and in time, when this mad war shall
be universally execrated, will be a solid addition to
your reputation. I am ever, with the highest es-
teem, etc., B. Franklin.

P. S. — An old friend of mine, Mr. Hut ton, a chief
of the Moravians, who is often at the queen's palace,
and is sometimes spoken to by the king, was over
here lately. He pretended to no commission, but
urged me much to propose some terms of peace,
which I avoided. He has written to me since his re-
turn, pressing the same thing, and expressing with
some confidence his opinion, that we might have
every thing short of absolute independence, etc.
Enclosed I send my answers open, that you may read
them, and, if you please, copy, before you deliver or
forward them. They will serve to show you more

1778] Benjamin Franklin 251

fully my sentiments, though they serve no other
purpose. B. F.

DCLXXVII

TO THOMAS GUSHING

Passy, 21 February, 1778.

Sir: — I received your favor by Mr. Austin, with
your most agreeable congratulations on the success
of the American arms in the Northern Department. '

' Surrender of Burgoyne at Saratoga. The battle of Saratoga,
which Colonel Creasy very properly rates among the ten great and
decisive battles of history, resulted in the stirrender of General Bur-
goyne with his whole army on the 17th October, 1777. Following the
disasters of the colonial army at Germantown, this victory was most
timely, and practically assured the ultimate victory of the American
arms; for it secured to the colonies the open and cordial alliance of
France. The news, which reached the American Commissioners at
Passy on the 4th December, was received by the French with as
fervent demonstrations of joy as if it was a victory achieved by their
own arms. On the 12th a meeting of the French Cabinet was held,
and on the 17 th Gerard informed Franklin and his colleagues that
the king had determined to acknowledge the independence of the
revolted colonists, and to sign a treaty with them. In the same dis-
patch, in which the Commissioners were authorized to transmit this
encouraging news to America, they were also enabled to announce to
Congress the promise of 3,000,000 livres, with the prospect of an
equal amotmt from Spain. A treaty of amity and commerce was
signed on the 6th February, and at once sent out to America for
ratification. The same day another treaty for a defensive alliance
was concluded.

The news of Burgoyne's defeat and capture was sent out to the
Commissioners in Paris by a special messenger, who was secretary
to their Board of War, Mr. John Lothrop Austin; and a vessel was
fitted up expressly for this business, such importance being very
properly attached to the prompt delivery of this intelligence in Etu-ope.
He appears to have been expected when he arrived at Franklin's resi-
dence at Passy, for Deane, the Lees, Izard, Bancroft the spy, Beaumar-
chais, and probably de Chaumont, were at the door when the wheels of

252 The Works of [1778

In return, give me leave to congratulate you on the
success of our negotiations here, in the completion of
the two treaties with his most Christian Majesty:
the one of amity and commerce, on the plan of that
proposed by Congress, with some good additions;
the other of alliance for mutual defence, in which the

Mr. Austin were heard in the courtyard. The tradition goes that before
the young man had time to aUght, Franklin cried out :

"Is Philadelphia taken?"

"Yes, sir." *

Upon hearing this, Franklin clasped his hands as if to go back into
the house. " But, sir," added Austin, " I have better news than that.
General Burgoyne and his whole army are prisoners of war."

The news, said Deane some time after, when describing the scene,
"was like a sovereign cordial to the dying." It reached London on
the night of December 2d, two days before it reached the Commis-
sioners in Paris. Even in ofi&cial circles the gravity of the disaster
could not be disguised. Lord North said he was willing to resign his
place if by so doing he could obtain peace. Gibbon, who reflected
the less disguised inquietude of outside circles, wrote to Holroyd on
the 4th December: "Dreadful news indeed! You will see them partly
in the papers, and we have not yet any particulars. An English army
of nearly ten thousand men laid down their arms and surrendered
prisoners of war, on condition of being sent to England, and of never
serving against America. They had fought bravely and were three
days without eating. Burgoyne is said to have received three wounds;
General Eraser with 2,000 men killed; Colonel Acland likewise killed.
A general cry for peace. ' '

The immediate effect of this news was, as stated by King George to
Lord North on the day it was received, "to entirely overturn every
plan proposed for strengthening the army, under the command of
Lieutenant-General Clinton, with an intent of carrying on an active war
in North America. What occurs now is to fix what numbers are
necessary to defend New York, Rhode Island, Nova Scotia, and the
Floridas; it is a joke to think of keeping Pennsylvania."

Lord North was severely censured for ignorance of the proceedings of
the French court since December preceding. His ignorance, however,
has been questioned.

* Philadelphia had fallen into Sir William Howe's power on the 20th September It was
felt as a severe blow in America and at Passy, but it did not dishearten Franklin. " Well,
Doctor," said an Englishman to Franklin, "Howe has taken Philadelphia." "I beg
your pardon, sir," was the reply; "Philadelphia has taken Howe." This jest, no doubt
intended, in part at least, to mask depression, proved prophetic. See Browning's Ben-
Ihant Vol. X., p. 527.

1778] Benjamin Franklin 253

most Christian king agrees to make a common cause
with the United States, if England attempts to ob-
struct the commerce of his subjects with them ; and
guarantees to the United States their liberty, sover-
eignty, and independence, absolute and unhmited,
with all the possessions they now have, or may have,

On the 13th of March, 1778, the Marquis de Noailles, then French
Ambassador in London, delivered to Lord Weymouth, the EngHsh
Secretary of State, a note formally announcing the treaty of amity and
commerce, as lately signed between France and the United States. It
remarked that the United States are in full possession of independence,
as proclaimed by them on the 4th of July, 1776, and then proceeded
in the following ironical, not to say derisive, terms: "In making
this comm.unication to the Court of London, the king (of France) is
firmly persuaded it will find therein new proofs of his Majesty's con-
stant and sincere disposition for peace; and that his Britannic Majesty,
animated by the same sentiments, will equally avoid every thing that
may alter their good harmony; and he will particularly take effective
measures to prevent the commerce between his Majesty's subjects and
the United States of North America from being interrupted."

Four days later Lord North delivered in Parliament a message from
the throne, stating the receipt of information from the French king,
that he had concluded a treaty of amity and commerce with his
Majesty's revolted subjects in America, in consequence of which
offensive communication, the British Ambassador at Paris had been
ordered home.

On the 24th of March, Gibbon wrote to Holroyd: "The French Am-
bassador went off yesterday morning, not without some slight ex-
pression of ill-humor from John Bull. Lord Stormont is probably
arrived to-day."

The battle of Saratoga gave the Americans the services of a fonni-
dable fleet, abundant ammunition, and miUtary suppHes; as much
money as they needed, and the no longer disguised sympathies of all
Eiirope. The result, so far as the independence of the colonies was
concerned, was already in sight.

General Burgoyne was an illegitimate son of Lord Bingley. He
owed his first advance in hfe to a runaway match with the daughter
of the Earl of Derby. Burgoyne was a brave officer, though an un-
forttinate general ; he was an effective speaker and a successful writer
for the stage. He was also one of the writers for the RolHad. He
died in June 1792, and his remains were honored with a resting-place
in Westminster Abbey. — Editor.

254 The Works of [1778

at the conclusion of the war; and the States in re-
turn guarantee to him his possession in the West
Indies. The great principle in both treaties is a per-
fect equality and reciprocity ; no advantage to be de-
manded by France, or privileges in commerce, which
the States may not grant to any and every other
nation.

In short, the king has treated with us generously
and magnanimously; taken no advantage of our
present difficulties, to exact terms which we would
not willingly grant, when established in prosperity
and power. I may add that he has acted wisely, in
wishing the friendship contracted by these treaties
may be durable, which probably might not be if a
contrary conduct had taken place.

Several of the American ships, with stores for the
Congress, are now about sailing under the convoy of
a French squadron. England is in great consterna-
tion, and the minister, on the 17th instant confessing
that all his measures had been wrong and that peace
was necessary, proposed two bills for quieting Amer-
ica; but they are full of artifice and deceit, and will, I
am confident, be treated accordingly by our country.

I think you must have much satisfaction in so val-
uable a son, whom I wish safe back to you, and am,
with great esteem, etc., B. Franklin.

P. S. — The treaties were signed by the plenipoten-
tiaries on both sides February 6th, but are still for
some reasons kept secret, though soon to be pub-
lished. It is understood that Spain will soon accede
to the same. The treaties are forwarded to Congress
by this conveyance.

1778] Benjamin Franklin 255

DCLXXVIII

TO ARTHUR LEE

Passy, 23 February, 1778.

Sir: — The enclosed, which you sent me, contained
a letter from Mr. Hartley in which he acquaints me
that on the 17th Lord North had made his proposi-
tions towards a conciliation with America, and asked
leave to bring in two bills, one to renounce all claim
of taxation, the other to empower commissioners to
treat with any persons or bodies of men in America
on a peace ; which was unanimously agreed to. He
tells me Lord North had expressed to him the
strongest desire of accommodation, and even wished
him to come over to Paris and talk with us. I should
send you the letter, which marks strongly the con-
sternation they are in ; but, M. Gerard having writ-
ten a note acquainting Mr. Deane that they had news
from England that a treaty was on foot between
Washington and Howe, and desiring to know if we
had any intelligence of it, I wrote the enclosed in
answer, and sent Mr. Hartley's letter to him, to show
that the ministers in England had no such news.
Mr. Hartley refers me to Mr. Thornton for the titles
of the two bills. I return Mr. Thornton's letters. I
am, very respectfully, etc., B. Franklin.

DCLXXIX

TO M. GERARD

Passy, 24 February, 1778.

Sir: — Understanding that reports have been
spread at Versailles of treaties on foot in America

256 The Works of [1778

between the Congress and the English Commis-
sioners; or here between us and the EngHsh Minis-
try. I send you an American newspaper of Decem-
ber 19th/ by which you will see, in the reports,
passages marked with a pen, in what manner such
and those who occasion them, are treated there. I
send you also the only correspondence I have had
which has any relation to the same subject here, that
you may judge of the credit due to such reports.
I have the honor to be, etc., B. Franklin.

DCLXXX

TO M. GERARD

Passy, 25 February, 1778.

Sir : — I received last night the enclosed letter from
a Member of Parliament,^ and the two frivolous bills
which the ministry in their present consternation
have thought fit to propose, with a view to support
their public credit a little longer at home, and to
amuse and divide, if possible, our people in America.
You will see that they have dispatched a frigate with
the news, but I hope yours from Bordeaux will arrive
first. I wish to have the original letters again when
you have perused them. I have the honor to be,
with great respect, etc., B. Franklin.

1 This document from the French Ministry of Foreign Affairs, is
thus endorsed: "Enclosing Independent Chronicle, Boston, 19 Dec,
1777."

2 This letter, copied from the Archives in the French Ministry of
Foreign Affairs, is endorsed: "Wharton, to Lee, 24 February, 1778.
London Evening Post, 18 January, 1778."

1778] Benjamin Franklin 257

DCLXXXI

TO DAVID HARTLEY

Passy, 26 February, 1778.

Dear Sir: — I received yours of the i8th and 20th
of this month, with Lord North's proposed bill. The
more I see of the ideas and projects of your ministry,
and their little arts and schemes of amusing and di-
viding us, the more I admire the prudent, manly, and
magnanimous propositions contained in your in-
tended motion for an address to the king. What
reliance can we have on an act expressing itself to be
only a declaration of the intention of Parliament
concerning the exercise of the right of imposing taxes
in America, when, in the bill itself, as well as in the
title, a right is supposed and claimed which never
existed ; and a present intention only is declared not
to use it, which may be changed by another act next
session, with a preamble that, this intention being
found inexpedient, it is thought proper to repeal this
act and resume the exercise of the right in its full ex-
tent. If any solid permanent benefit was intended
by this, why is it confined to the colonies of North
America and not extended to the loyal ones in the
sugar islands? But it is now useless to criticise, as
all acts that suppose your future government of the
colonies can be no longer significant.

In the act for appointing Commissioners, instead
of full powers to agree upon terms of peace and
friendship, with a promise of ratifying such treaty as
they shall make in pursuance of those powers, it is
declared that their agreements shall have no force nor

258 The Works of [1778

effect, nor be carried into execution, till approved of
by Parliament; so that every thing of importance
will be uncertain. But they are allowed to proclaim
a cessation of arms, and revoke their proclamation,
as soon as, in consequence of it, our militia have been
allowed to go home ; they may suspend the operation
of acts prohibiting trade, and take off that suspension
when our merchants, in consequence of it, have been
induced to send their ships to sea ; in short, they may
do every thing that can have a tendency to divide and
distract us, but nothing that can afford us security.
Indeed, sir, your ministers do not know us. We may
not be quite so cunning as they, but we have really
more sense, as well as more courage, than they have
ever been willing to give us credit for ; and I am per-
suaded these acts will rather obstruct peace than pro-
mote it, and that they will not answer in America the
mischievous and malevolent ends for which they were
intended. In England they may indeed amuse the
public creditors, give hopes and expectations that
shall be of some present use, and continue the mis-
managers a little longer in their places. Voila tout!

In return for your repeated advice to us not to
conclude any treaty with the House of Bourbon, per-
mit me to give (through you) a little advice to the
Whigs in England. Let nothing induce them to join
with the Tories in supporting and continuing this
wicked war against the Whigs of America, whose as-
sistance they may hereafter want to secure their own
liberties, or whose country they may be glad to retire
to for the enjoyment of them.

If peace, by a treaty with America upon equal

1778] Benjamin Franklin 259

terms, were really desired, your Commissioners need
not go there for it ; supposing, as by the bill they are
empowered "to treat with such person or persons as
in their wisdom and discretion they shall think meet, "
they should happen to conceive that the Commission-
ers of the Congress at Paris might be included in that
description. I am ever, dear sir, etc.,

B. Franklin.^
P. S. — Seriously, on further thoughts, I am of
opinion that if wise and honest men, such as Sir
George Saville, the Bishop of St. Asaph, and your-
self, were to come over here immediately with powers
to treat, you might not only obtain peace with Amer-
ica, but prevent a war with France.

^ Early in March George III. appointed five Commissioners to
negotiate terms of peace with Congress, with power to concede almost
every thing but independence. On the 26th of March, the king, in a
letter to his prime-minister, betrayed his conviction that Franklin
was about the most formidable enemy he had in the world, as in a
public sense he undoubtedly was. He wrote:

"The many instances of the inimical conduct of Franklin towards
this cotmtry makes me aware that hatred to this country is the con-
stant object of his mind [the king's faculty of expressing himself was not
in the least royal], and therefore I trust that, fearing the rebellion,
colonies may accept the generous offers I am enabled by Parliament
to make them by the Commissioners now to be sent to America;
that his chief aim in what he has thrown out is to prevent their going,
or to draw out of administration an inclination to go farther lengths
than the act of Parliament will authorize. That information from
him may prevent America from concluding with the Commissioners.

"Yet I think it so desirable to end the war with that cotmtry, to be
enabled, with redoubled ardor, to avenge the faithless and insolent
conduct of France, that I think it may be proper to keep open the
channel of intercourse with that insidious man." — Editor.

26o The Works of [1778

DCLXXXII

TO MRS. CATHERINE GREENE

Paris, 28 February, 1778.

My Dear Old Friend: — Don't be offended at the
word old. I don't mean to call you an old woman; it
relates only to the age of our friendship, which on
my part has always been a sincerely affectionate one,
and, I flatter myself, the same on yours.

I received your kind letter from Boston of October
28th, which gave me great pleasure, as it informed me
of the welfare of you and your family. I continue
hearty, as do my two grandsons, who present their
respects to you and Mr. Greene, being pleased with
your remembrance of them. We are all glad to hear
of Ray, for we all love him. I have been often much
concerned for my friends at Warwick, hearing that
the enemy was so near them. I hope your troubles
will not be of much longer duration ; for, though the
wickedness of the English court and its malice against
us are as great as ever, its horns are shortened, its
strength diminishes daily, and we have formed an
alliance here, and shall form others, that will help to
keep the bull quiet and make him orderly.

I chat, you see, as usual, anyhow with you, who
are kind enough never to criticise improprieties in my
compositions, or any thing else. I see by yours that
my sister's granddaughter is married. I wish the
young folks joy and lasting happiness. I pity my
poor old sister, to be so harassed and driven about by
the enemy ; for I feel a little myself the inconvenience
of being driven about by my friends.

1778] Benjamin Franklin 261

I live here in great respect, and dine every day with
great folks ; but I still long for home and for repose,
and should be happy to eat Indian pudding in your
company, and under your hospitable roof." Re-

' Franklin's appearance in the salons of Paris, even before he was
received at court, produced a memorable sensation throughout the
whole of Europe. Segvu-, one of the best authorities of the period,
says:

"Rien n'etait plus suprenant que le contraste du luxe de notre
capitale, de I'elegance de nos modes, de la magnificence de Versailles,
de toutes ces traces vivantes de la fierte monarchique de Louis XIV.,
de la hauteur polie mais superbe, de nos grands, avec I'habillement
presque rustique, le maintien simple mais fier, le langage Hbre et sans
detour, la cheveliu-e sans appr^ts et sans poudre, enfin avec cet air
antique qui semblait transporter tout k coup dans nos murs au miHeu
de la civilization amolHe et servile du iSieme siecle, quelques sages
contemporains de Plato, ou des repubHcains du temps de Cato et de
Fabius."

The scene which occurred on the 20th March, 1778, when the
American plenipotentiaries were presented to the king and introduced
at court, says Schlosser in his History of the XVIIIth Century,
"may be said, in some measure, to have no longer belonged to the
olden times, but to the period of the Revolution, since not only those
who had a right to appear at cotu-t were present in multitudes and
masses, but the populace assembled in the cotirt of the palace and
played a part on the occasion. Franklin alone was the subject of
imiversal admiration, as the ideal of a patriarchal republic and of
idyllic simplicity; and of the three he alone remained as the proper
ambassador. Silas Deane was soon recalled by Congress, and Lee
had made himself an object of suspicion and hatred, although from
very different causes. The whole rested upon Franklin, and every
one regarded him as the image of that ideal and poetic democracy
which Rousseau had so charmingly described. Franklin was accom-
panied to the audience by a very large number of Americans, collected
together from various quarters; and as soon as he appeared in the
royal chambers, notwithstanding the rules of etiquette, he was received
with loud clapping of hands and joyiul applause. When the embassy
retired in solemn procession from the royal audience-chamber, and
crossed the cotirt to the minister of foreign affairs, it was again received
by the assembled people with roimds of cheers and shouts of applause;
and wherever Franklin afterwards showed himself in Paris, he was
the wonder of the day, and was greeted by the multitude with cheers.

262 The Works of [1778

member me kindly to the remainder of the Wards,
and to all that wish me well. Assure Mr. Greene of
my sincere esteem and respect, and believe me ever,
my dear friend, yours most affectionately,

B. Franklin.

DCLXXXIII

A TRUE HISTORY OF THE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN THE
COLONIES AND THE AUTHOR OF THE STAMP ACT

Passy, 12 March, 1778.

Dear Sir: — In the pamphlets you were so kind as
to lend me there is one important fact misstated, ap-

Even the yoiing court, with its sentimentality and frivolity, was quite
delighted with the novel contrast of the sleek, unpowdered hair, the
round hats, the plain brown broadcloth quaker coats of the republicans,
with the tasselled and embroidered garments of the courtiers and their
curled hair, powdered and fragrant with pomades.

"The old man was bom and trained to mix uncorrupted in all the
courtly politeness of a people which at that time sought for its chief
honor in courtliness and gallantry, to indulge agreeably in all the
silliness of society, to profit by his intercourse with the ladies, as a
prudent man must, to show himself in the highest degree grateful
for all the polite attentions which he received, and yet, like a prudent
tradesman, never to deviate an inch from the track of solid speculation.
Like a practical citizen who only regards what is substantial as gain,
Franklin looked upon all this fashionable excitement and applause
as merely symptoms of a favorable conjvmcture for business, from
which he was to derive as much advantage as he possibly could. He
himself informs us that he dined out six days in the week and profited
by the admiration and idolizing of the ladies."

Nor was the sensation that he produced in Europe transitory, nor
due in any considerable degree, if at all, to his position. He is to this
day the most famous, the most widely known, and most admired
American, living or dead; his writings continue to be reprinted in
almost every language; his name is given to streets, to charitable,
beneficent, and financial corporations all over the world, and his
golden sentences and anecdotes continue to enrich every literature. —
Editor.

1778] Benjamin Franklin 263

parently from the writers not having been furnished
with good information. It is the transaction be-
tween Mr. Grenville and the colonies, wherein he
understands that Mr. Grenville demanded of them a
specific sum, that they refused to grant any thing,
and that it was on their refusal only that he made
the motion for the Stamp Act. No one of the par-
ticulars was true. The fact was this:

Some time in the winter of 1763-4 Mr. Grenville
called together the agents of the several colonies, and
told them that he purposed to draw a revenue from
America ; and to that end his intention was to levy
a stamp duty on the colonies by act of Parliament in
the ensuing session, of which he thought it fit that
they should be immediately acquainted, that they
might have time to consider; and if any other duty
equally productive would be more agreeable to them,
they might let him know it. The agents were there-
fore directed to write this to their respective Assem-
blies, and communicate to him the answers they
should receive : the agents wrote accordingly.

I was a member in the Assembly of Pennsylvania
when this notification came to hand. The observa-
tions there made upon it were, that the ancient, es-
tablished, and regular method of drawing aid from
the colonies was this : The occasion was always first
considered by their sovereign in his Privy Council,
by whose sage advice he directed his Secretary of
State to write circular-letters to the several govern-
ors, who were directed to lay them before their As-
semblies. In those letters the occasion was explained
to their satisfaction, with gracious expressions of

264 The Works of [1778

his Majesty's confidence in their known duty and
affection, on which he reUed that they would grant
such sums as should be suitable to their abilities,
loyalty, and zeal for his service; that the colonies
had always granted liberally on such requisitions,
and so liberally during the late war, that the
king, sensible they had granted much more than
their proportion, had recommended it to Parliament
five years successively to make them some com-
pensation, and the Parliament accordingly returned
them ;^2 00,000 a year, to be divided among them;
that the proposition of taxing them, in Parliament,
was therefore both cruel and unjust; that, by the
constitution of the colonies, their business was with
the king in matters of aid; they had nothing to do
with any financier, nor he with them; nor were the
agents the proper channels through which requisi-
tions should be made ; it was therefore improper for
them to enter into any stipulation, or make any
proposition to Mr. Grenville about laying taxes on
their constituents by Parliament, which had really
no right at all to tax them, especially as the notice
he had sent them did not appear to be by the king's
order, and perhaps was without his knowledge, as
the king, when he would obtain any thing from
them, always accompanied his requisition with good
words, but this gentleman, instead of a decent de-
mand, sent them a menace, that they should cer-
tainly be taxed, and only left them the choice of the
manner. But all this notwithstanding, they were
so far from refusing to grant money that they re-
solved to the following purpose : " That they always

1778] Benjamin Franklin 265

had, so they always should think it their duty to
grant aid to the crown, according to their abilities,
whenever required of them in the usual constitutional
manner." I went soon after to England, and took
with me an authentic copy of this resolution, which I
presented to Mr. Grenville before he brought in the
Stamp Act. I asserted in the House of Commons
(Mr. Grenville being present) that I had done so, and
he did not deny it. Other colonies made similar
resolutions, and had Mr. Grenville, instead of that
act, applied to the king in council for such requisi-
tional letters to be circulated by the Secretary of
State, I am sure he would have obtained more money
from the colonies by their voluntary grants than he
himself expected from his stamps. But he chose
compulsion rather than persuasion, and would not
receive from their good-will what he thought he
could obtain without it. And thus the golden
bridge which the ingenious author thinks the Amer-
icans unwisely and unbecomingly refused to hold
out to the minister and Parliament, was actually
held out to them, but they refused to walk over it.

This is the true history of that transaction ; and as
it is probable there may be another edition of that
excellent pamphlet, I wish this may be communi-
cated to the candid author, who, I doubt not, will
correct that error.

I am ever, with sincere esteem, dear sir, your most
obedient, humble servant, B. Franklin.

266 The Works of [1778

DCLXXXIV

TO ARTHUR LEE

Passy, 17 March, 1778.

Dear Sir: — One of the Messrs. Beaumann, of
Bordeaux, some time since told me that they in-
tended to send a packet every month to America, on
their own account, they having great concerns there.
He offered, indeed, to carry our despatches; but, as
at this distance we could not know the captains, nor
the degree of confidence that might be placed in
them, and having other conveyances, I have not yet
seen occasion to make use of that offer. These are
the packets I mentioned to the gentleman as likely to
afford him the convenience of a passage, and he un-
derstood more than I said to him, when he imagined
there was a packet to sail soon with our despatches,
I knew of no such thing proposed; and certainly, if
it had been proposed by me, or with my knowledge,
I should have acquainted you with it.

A gentleman, lately arrived from Boston, has pre-
sented for acceptance bills drawn on us by Mr. Han-
cock, as the President of the Congress, for about one
hundred and eighty thousand livres. I have also re-
ceived a letter, mentioning that other bills are drawn
on us by Mr. Laurens, the present President, of which
an account is promised in a future letter, this not
giving the amount, but only directing us to accept
them when they appear. The one hundred and
eighty thousand livres are an old debt contracted by
our army in Canada, and not for interest of money.
What the others are, I know not; and I cannot con-

1778] Benjamin Franklin 267

ceive what encouragement the Congress could have
had from any of us to draw on us for any thing but
that interest. I suppose their difficulties have com-
pelled them to it. I see we shall be distressed here
by these proceedings, and I want to consult with you
about the means of paying the bills. If you will
name an hour when you shall be at leisure to-day, I
will call upon you. I have the honor to be, sir, etc.,

B. Franklin.

DCLXXXV

TO JAMES HUTTON

Passy, 24 March, 1778.

My dear old friend was in the right, not " to call in
question the sincerity of my words, where I say, Feb-
ruary the 12th, we can treat, if any propositions are
made to us.'' They were true then, and are so still, if
Britain has not declared war with France ; for in that
case we shall undoubtedly think ourselves obliged to
continue the war as long as she does. But me thinks
you should have taken us at our word, and have sent
immediately your propositions in order to prevent
such a war, if you did not choose it. Still I conceive
it would be well to do it, if you have not already
rashly begun the war. Assure yourself nobody more
sincerely wishes perpetual peace among men than I
do; but there is a prior wish, that they would be
equitable and just ; otherwise such peace is not pos-
sible, and indeed wicked men have no right to expect
it. Adieu. I am ever yoiu-s most affectionately,

B. Franklin.

268 The Works of [1778

DCLXXXVI

TO RALPH IZARD

Passy, 30 March, 1778.

Sir: — From the account you give me of the man,
who pretends to be of Carolina, as well as from my
own observation of his behavior, I entertain no good
opinion of him, and shall not give him the pass he
desires.

Much and very important business has hitherto
prevented my giving you the satisfaction you desired,
but you may depend upon my endeavoring to give it
to you as soon as possible.^ An answer was written

I The same grievance is here alluded to as in the letter of January
29th. Mr. Izard thought himself slighted by the Commissioners, in
regard to the treaty, and partictilarly by Dr. Franklin, and requested
an explanation. See above, p. 244. Mr. Izard waited impatiently
for this explanation in writing, but, not receiving it, he sent his
secretary, Mr. John J. Pringle, with a letter to Dr. Franklin. The
following is Mr. Pringle's account of the interview, as he reported it to
Mr. Izard:

"In compliance with yotir request, I waited on Dr. Franklin and
delivered to him your letter; he had scarcely read it when he said:
' Mr. Izard has written me a very angry letter ; please to tell him that
he has only made use of general assertions of my having done wrong,
which I cannot otherwise answer than by denying. If I have given
him any causes of offence, he should let me know what they are.' To
this I replied, that you had been kind enough to form so good an
opinion of me, as to admit me into a share of yo\ir confidence; there-
fore I could take upon me to say that you were persuaded you had
clearly stated, in the several letters he had received from you, cir-
cumstances affording sufficient grounds of offence. He said he should be
glad to know what those circumstances were. I answered, in the first
place, that, conceiving it your duty as a member of the States, having
a considerable fortune there, and intrusted with a commission from Con-
gress, to commtmicate as occasion offered all the intelligence you could,
you found this commtmication greatly obstructed by a concealment
on the part of Dr. Franklin of proper opportvmities, when it was quite
unnecessary, or when the end of secrecy might be answered, though

1778] Benjamin Franklin 269

to your letter of the 5th of this month, and signed by
us all, which I thought had been sent to you, till Mr.
Lee informed me that, having communicated to you
the contents, you told him it would not be satisfac-
tory, and desired it might be reconsidered, and he had

you had been intrusted with the knowledge of them. Upon which Dr.
FrankHn told me that you had only complained of this in the present
letter, and as to the particular opportimity you mentioned by M.
Gerard, or Mr. Deane, he had not himself looked upon it as a good or
proper one, and had not himself made use of it to write.

"As another ground of complaint, I observed that, while the com-
mercial treaty was on the carpet, you considered one article as highly
unreasonable and inexpedient, and therefore expressly objected to it;
you had in a letter fully specified the reasons upon which your dis-
approbation was foimded, and had sent this letter to Dr. Franklin, in
hopes of his removing your scruples, and setting you right if you were
wrong, or letting yoxor reasons and objections, if they were just, pro-
duce some good effect before the conclusion of the treaty, btit you had
never been favored with any answer on the subject, though you had
repeatedly requested it. Dr. Franklin alleged that he would have
given a full and satisfactory answer, but he had been prevented by
business and various avocations ; that he was still willing to give one,
but could not conceive why you should be so impatient. Suppose
he could not give it for a month hence, what great inconvenience would
it occasion ? I observed that the sooner you had it, you might be the
better prepared to guard against any misrepresentation. Dr. Franklin
assured me that he had not been, nor would he ever be, guilty of any
misrepresentation; so far from it, that he had not even written any
thing concerning the matter. I told him perhaps you might choose to
lay it before Congress, and his answer might enable you to do it more
fully and satisfactorily. Dr. Franklin said you should have an answer,
but you must be patient; for he really was very much engaged by
other business, and interrupted by people continually coming in upon
him, though some upon frivolous errands, as was the case with the
two Frenchmen, just gone away, who came only to ask him to buy
cloth.

"I suggested as a third ground of complaint, that you had been
directed by the Congress to propose to the Court of Tuscany a com-
mercial treaty similar to the one concluded with this Court, which you
therefore required as necessary for your regulation, in pursuance of
the instructions of Congress, who directed you should have not only
the original treaty, but also the alterations which might be proposed;

270 The Works of [1778

accordingly stopped it for that purpose. We have
not since had an opportunity of reconsidering it ; and,
as the end is now answered by the communication of
the treaty, perhaps it is not necessary.

I condole with you sincerely on the great loss sus-
tained in Charleston by the fire in January last, said
to have destroyed six hundred houses, valued with
the goods at a million sterling. I have the honor to
be, etc., B. Franklin.

both were, nevertheless, withheld from you by Dr. Franklin without
the least regard to your applications. Dr. Franklin replied : ' Did he
go into Tuscany? Has not the treaty been sent to him?' I said you
had good reasons for staying; that the treaty was kept from you till
the other day, when perhaps it was necessary for you to have had it
as early as possible, even previous to your departure, to give it the
naaturer consideration, and because there might be explanations you
would like to have made here; or observations might occur to you
which you might think it advisable to communicate to Congress, to
have their further instructions as soon as you could.

" I do not recollect that Dr. Franklin made any direct reply to this.
He observed, that he was clear he had not given you any just cause of
offence, or reasonable grounds of complaint; that he was studious to
avoid contention ; he acknowledged that he owed you an answer, but,
though he was in your debt, he hoped you woxild be a merciful creditor ;
he would say, as the debtor in the Scripture, ' have patience, and I will
pay thee all ' ; that you certainly ought to give him time, as you had
urged so much matter as would require a pamphlet in answer. I told
him that I was sure it was far from your disposition to court quarrels ;
that if the reasons he gave in his answer to you were just and satis-
factory, you wotdd undoubtedly allow them their full weight; that
satisfaction you were desirous of having, and were anxious to have
the affair ended. He said he should endeavor to do it as soon as possi-
ble; in the meantime, he hoped to have no more such angry letters
from you; his answer he promised shoiild be a cool one, and that peo-
ple who wrote such angry letters should keep them till they sufficiently
reflected on the contents before they sent them. — April 26th." —
Editor.

1778] Benjamin Franklin 271

DCLXXXVII

TO WILLIAM PULTENEY ^

Passy, 30 March, 1778.

Sir: — When I first had the honor of conversing
with you on the subject of peace, I mentioned it as
my opinion that every proposition which impHed our
voltintarily agreeing to return to a dependence on
Britain was now become impossible ; that a peace on
equal terms undoubtedly might be made; and that,
though we had no particular powers to treat of peace

* Mr. Ptdteney was a member of Parliament, and had come over to
Paris as a secret agent from the ministry, for the purpose of constolting
Dr. FrankHn respecting the terms of a reconciliation with America,
contained in Lord North's bill for appointing commissioners. That
the object of his visit might not be publicly suspected, he assumed the
name of Williams. The above letter is an answer to the following
note; or, rather, the substance of a conversation that had passed
between them in consequence of it. The letter was not sent. See
letter to David Hartley, dated October 26, 1778.

" 29 March, 1778.

" Mr. Williams returned this morning to Paris, and will be glad to
see Dr. Franklin whenever it is convenient for the Doctor, at the
Hotel Frasiliere, Rue Toumon. It is near the hotel where he lodged
when the Doctor saw him a fortnight ago. He does not propose to go
abroad, and therefore the Doctor will find him at any hotu". He
tmderstands that Mr. Alexander is not yet returned from Dijon,
which he regrets."

Mr. Alexander soon returned to Paris, and wrote to Dr. Franklin, on
the 4th of April, as follows :

"Upon a night's reflection, it is thought right that you should be
possessed of the enclosed, to be afterwards retximed to me without
taking a copy in case no business is done. Will you let me know by
the bearer if we are to see you in town to-day and when, that I may
be at hand?"

The paper here mentioned as enclosed probably contained the
propositions which had been brought by Mr. Pulteney, and the sub-
stance of which he had commtmicated to Dr. Franklin in conversation.
— Editor.

272 The Works of [1778

with England, we had general powers to make treaties
of peace, amity, and commerce with any state in Eu-
rope, by which I thought we might be authorized to
treat with Britain, who, if sincerely disposed to peace,
might save time and much bloodshed by treating with
us directly.

I also gave it as my opinion that in the treaty to be
made, Britain should endeavor, by the fairness and
generosity of the terms she offered, to recover the
esteem, confidence, and affection of America, without
which the peace could not be so beneficial, as it was
not likely to be lasting ; in this I had the pleasure to
find you of my opinion.

But I see, by the propositions you have communi-
cated to me, that the ministers cannot yet divest
themselves of the idea that the power of Parliament
over us is constitutionally absolute and unlimited;
and that the limitations they may be willing now to
put to it by treaty are so many favors or so many
benefits, for which we are to make compensation.

As our opinions in America are totally different, a
treaty on the terms proposed appears to me utterly
impracticable either here or there. Here we certainly
cannot make it, having not the smallest authority to
make even the declaration specified in the proposed
letter, without which, if I understood you right,
treating with us cannot be commenced.

I sincerely wish as much for peace as you do, and I
have enough remaining of good-will for England to
wish it for her sake as well as for our own, and for
the sake of humanity. In the present state of things,
the proper means of obtaining it, in my opinion,

1778] Benjamin Franklin 273

are to acknowledge the independence of the United
States, and then enter at once into a treaty with us
for a suspension of arms, with the usual provisions
relating to distances; and another for establishing
peace, friendship, and commerce such as France has
made. This might prevent a war between you and
that kingdom,which,in the present circumstances and
temper of the two nations, an accident may bring on
every day, though contrary to the interest and with-
out the previous intention of either. Such a treaty
we might probably now make, with the approbation
of our friends ; but if you go to war with them on ac-
count of their friendship for us, we are bound, by ties
stronger than can be formed by any treaty, to fight
against you with them as long as the war against
them shall continue.

May God at last grant that wisdom to your national
councils which he seems long to have denied them,
and which only sincere, just, and humane intentions
can merit or expect. With great personal esteem, I
have the honor to be, sir, etc.,

B. Franklin.

DCLXXXVIII

TO MR. PRESIDENT LAURENS

Passy, near Paris, 31 March, 1778.

Sir: — Mons. Gerard, who does me the honor to
be the bearer of this letter, is the same plenipoten-
tiary with whom we completed the treaties that have
secured to America the friendship and support of

VOL. VII.— 18.

274 The Works of [1778

this powerful monarchy. In the whole conduct of
that affair, he manifested a candor, uprightness, and
equity of disposition, as well as an affection for our
cause and country, that impressed us with the highest
esteem for him ; and I congratulate you on his being
minister from this court to the Congress, as the
king's appointment of a person who is considered
as our friend, to fill so important a situation, is an
additional mark of his Majesty's good-will to us, and
presages, in my opinion, an exercise of the good un-
derstanding so happily begun between the two coun-
tries; which no one can be more desirous or more
capable of promoting.

I beg leave, therefore, to recommend him warmly
not only to all the civilities and respects that are due
to his public character, but to those tender regards
and affectionate grateful attentions that friendship
claims and which are so proper to cultivate and
strengthen it. I have the honor to be, with the
greatest respect, sir, yours, etc., B. Franklin.

DCLXXXIX

TO THE PRESIDENT OF CONGRESS

Passy, 31 March, 1778.

Sir: — My colleague, Mr. Deane, being recalled by
Congress, and no reasons given that have yet ap-
pear-ed here, it is apprehended to be the effect of
some misrepresentations from an enemy or two at
Paris and at Nantes. I have no doubt that he will
be able clearly to justify himself; but, having lived
intimately with him now fifteen months, the greatest

1778] Benjamin Franklin 275

part of the time in the same house, and been a con-
stant witness of his pubHc conduct, I cannot omit
giving this testimony, though unasked, in his behalf,
that I esteem him a faithful, active, and able minister,
who, to my knowledge, has done in various ways
great and important services to his country, whose
interests I wish may always, by every one in her em-
ploy, be as much and as effectually promoted. With
my dutiful respects to the Congress, I have the honor
to be, etc., B. Franklin.

DCXC

TO MONSIEUR GERARD

Passy, I April, 1778.

Once more, dear sir, adieu. Mr. Deane set out last
night. He will show you the propositions. They
would probably have been accepted, if they had been
made two years ago. I have answered that they have
come too late; and that every kind of acknowledg-
ment of the government of Great Britain, how small
soever, is now become impracticable. I thank you
for the information of Mr. de Sartine's courier. My
best wishes attend you. B. Franklin.

DCXCI

TO ARTHUR LEE

Passy, i April, 1778.

Sir: — There is a style in some of your letters, I
observe it particularly in the last, whereby superior

276 The Works of [1778

merit is assumed to yourself in point of care and at-
tention to business, and blame is insinuated on your
colleagues without making yourself accountable, by
a direct charge of negligence or unfaithfulness, which
has the appearance of being as artful as it is un-
kind. In the present case I think the insinuation
groundless.

I do not know that either Mr. Deane or myself
ever showed any unwillingness to settle the public
accounts. The banker's book always contained the
whole. You could at any time as easily have ob-
tained the account from them as either of us, and you
had abundantly more leisure. If, on examining it,
you had wanted explanation of any article, you might
have called for it and had it. You never did either.
As soon as I obtained the account, I put it into your
hands, and desired you to look into it, and I have
heard no more of it since till now, just as Mr. Deane
is on the point of departing. Mr. Deane, however,
left with me before the receipt of your letter both
the public papers, and explications of the several ar-
ticles in the account that came within his knowledge.
With these materials, I suppose we can settle the ac-
count whenever you please. You have only to name
the day and place, and I will attend to the business
with you. I have the honor to be, with great es-
teem, sir, etc., B. Franklin.

1778] Benjamin Franklin 277

DCXCII

TO ARTHUR LEE

Passy, 4 April, 1778.

Sir: — Mr. Deane communicated to me his inten-
tion of setting out for America immediately as a se-
cret, which he desired I would mention to nobody. I
complied with his request. If he did not think fit to
communicate it to you also, it is from him you should
demand his reasons. '

I The contents of the letter, to which this is an answer, are so re-
markable, and they are so pointedly alluded to in the answer itself,
that, in justice to both parties, it seems proper that they should ac-
company each other. The following is Mr. Lee's letter:

"Chaillot, 2 April, 1778.

"Sir: — It was with the utmost siu-prise that I learned yesterday
that M. Gerard was to set out in the evening for America, in a public
character, and that Mr. Deane was to accompany him, without either
you or he having condescended to answer my letter of the preceding
day.

"That a measure of such moment as M. Gerard's mission, should
have been taken without any communication with the Commissioners
is hardly credible. That, if it was communicated, you should do such
violence to the authority that constituted us, together with so great
an injury and injustice to me, is equally astonishing. If success to
the mission, and unanimity on the subject in Congress, were your wish,
with what propriety could you make it a party business, and not tmite
all the Commissioners in the advising and approving a measure, in
which you desired their friends and constituents might be unanimous?

" I do not live ten minutes' distance from you. The communication,
therefore, could not be attended with delay or difificulty. Within
these few days I have seen you frequently, as usual. Particularly, on
Monday I was with you at your house for some time. I asked you
about the sailing of the ships at Nantes, expressing my desire to know
when we should have an opportunity of writing. You said you did
not know when they sailed. I asked if there were no letters, none
but one from M. Dumas having been shown to me for some time. You
answered. No. I had, at a former meeting, asked you whether it was
not proper for us to send an express to give intelligence of such conse-
quential events as our being acknowledged here, and the treaty

278 The Works of [1778

This court has an undoubted right to send as min-
isters whom it pleases, and where it pleases, without
advising with us, or desiring our approbation. The
measure of sending M. Gerard as a minister to Con-
gress was resolved on without consulting me; but I
think it a wise one, and, if I did not, I do not con-
ceive that I have any right to find fault with it.
France was not consulted when we were sent here.
Your angry charge, therefore, of our " making a party
business of it, " is groundless; we had no hand in the
business. And, as we neither "acted nor advised"

avowed. You told me it would be sufficient to write by the ship from
Nantes (for it was afterwards you mentioned there were two), as the
news being public would find its way fast enough.

" Upon M. Amiel, who came from your house to mine, mentioning, on
Tuesday, that Mr. Deane was to go away in a few days, I wrote to you
and him to repeat what I have so often requested, that the public
accounts might be settled, for which Mr. Deane had taken possession
of all the vouchers, and that the pubHc papers might be delivered to
us before his departure. You made no answer. I sent my secretary
again yesterday to desire an answer. You sent me a verbal one, that
you would settle the accounts with me any day after to-morrow.
Your reason for not doing it before was that it was not your business.
Now it seemed your business only, and Mr. Deane had no concern with
it. The delivery of the public papers, which are the property of all,
not of any one of the Commissioners, though you and Mr. Deane have
constantly taken them to yourselves, was too immaterial to answer.

"During all this time, and with these circumstances, you have been
totally silent to me about the present opportunity of writing to
Congress, about the important public measure in agitation, and about
Mr. Deane's departiire. Nay, more, what you have said, and the
manner in which you acted, tended to mislead me from imagining that
you knew of any such thing. Had you studied to deceive the most
distrusted and dangerous enemy of the public, you could not have done
it more effectually.

"I trust, sir, that you will think with me, that I have a right to
know your reasons for treating me thus. If you have any thing to
accuse me of, avow it, and I will answer you. If you have not, why
do you act so inconsistently with your duty to the public, and in-
juriously to me? Is the present state of Europe of so little moment

1 778] Benjamin Franklin 279

in it, which you suppose, your other high-sounding
charge of our doing, thereby, violence to the author^
ity that constituted us, and a great injury and injus-
tice to you, is equally without foundation. As to the
concealing it from you, reasons were given by Mr.
Deane that appeared to me satisfactory, and founded
entirely on views of public good. I promise to com-
municate them to you hereafter, if you desire it, that
you may have an opportunity of refuting them, if
you can. At present, it is not proper.

to our constituents, as not to require our joint consideration and in-
formation to them? Is the character of the court here and of the
person sent to negotiate with our constituents, of no consequence for
them to be apprised of? Is this the example, you, in your superior
wisdom, think proper to set, of order, decorum, confidence, and
justice?

" I trust too, sir, that you will not treat this letter, as you have done
many others, with the indignity of not answering it. Though I have
been silent, I have not felt the less the many affronts of this kind which
you have thought proper to offer me. I have the honor to be with

^'ZT'^lT'r Arthur Lee."

When Mr. Lee wrote this letter he was ignorant of the cause of the
complaint contained in the first part of it. Count de Vergennes had
been informed that intelligence had been communicated to England
through the agency of Mr. Lee's secretary, which created an un-
favorable suspicion. The facts are these: Mr. Lee sent his secretary
to England, with the view of ascertaining the nature of the prepara-
tions that were making to fit out a fleet at Portsmouth. This secretary
betrayed his trust, and revealed certain particulars in London for
stock-jobbing purposes. Mr. Lee dismissed him as soon as his un-
faithfulness was discovered. It was important that the intention of
sending M. Gerard as a minister to the United States, and a fleet to
America under Count d'Estaing, should remain a secret as long as
possible, that the British Government might not take measures to
counteract the objects for which they were designed. Count de
Vergennes was apprehensive that, if the intelligence were made known
to Mr. Lee. it would get to the ears of the British Ministry through the
above suspected channel. He enjoined it, therefore, on Dr. Franklin
and Mr. Deane, not to mention the subject to their colleague This
injunction they were, of course, bound to observe.— Editor

28o The Works of [1778

Your third paragraph, therefore, containing a par-
ticular account of what passed between you and me
at my house on Monday, seems not to require any
answer. I am still of the same opinion that, after
having sent the treaties themselves by different good
conveyances, in which treaties our pubUc character
was acknowledged in the most authentic manner, and
the avowal of the transaction by the French ambas-
sador to the king of England, which was in all the
papers of Europe, the sending a vessel express to
carry the news of paying our respects to court, which
was likewise in the papers, was an expensive and
altogether unnecessary operation.

I received your letter directed to Mr. Deane and
myself relating to the accounts. I had no opportu-
nity of showing it to him till the evening of his de-
parture, and then he was in too much of a hurry to
peruse it. I could not, therefore, sooner answer it.
But I then wrote an answer, acquainting you that he
had put into my hands the public papers, with all the
information he could give relating to the accounts.
It was intended to be transcribed fairly, and sent to
you in the morning. Your secretary called for an
answer before I had time to copy it. I had a good
deal of company; and, thinking a verbal message
might perhaps do as well and save the trouble, I de-
sired him, with my compliments, to acquaint you
that I was ready to settle the account with you at any
time you should think fit to appoint, except to-mor-
row, when I should be otherwise engaged. As this
verbal message offended you, though I cannot con-
ceive why, I now send you the letter. In it, I com-

1778] Benjamin Franklin 281

plain of your artful and, I think I may call them, un-
just insinuations. You give me fresh instances in the
letter I am answering. You magnify your zeal to
have the public accounts settled, and insinuate that
Mr. Deane and I prevented it, he by "taking posses-
sion of all the vouchers, ' ' and both of us by taking
constantly the public papers to ourselves, which are
the property of all the Commissioners.

When this comes to be read in the Committee, for
whom it seems to be calculated, rather than for me,
who know the circumstances, what can they under-
stand by it, but that you are the only careful, honest
man of the three, and that we have some knavish rea-
sons for keeping the accounts in the dark, and you
from seeing the vouchers ? But the truth is, the pa-
pers naturally came into Mr. Deane 's hands and mine ;
first, as he was engaged in the purchasing of goods
for the Congress before either you or I came into
France ; next, as somebody must keep the papers, and
you were either on long journeys to Spain, to Vienna
and Berlin, or had a commission to go and reside in
Spain, which it was expected would soon be execut-
ed ; whereas Mr. Deane and I lived, almost constant-
ly, in the same house, either at Paris or Passy; you,
separate from us; and we did most of the business.
Where then could the papers be so properly placed
as with us, who had daily occasion to make use of
them? I never knew that you desired to have the
keeping of them. You never were refused a paper,
or the copy of a paper, that you desired.^

* Mr. Lee's complaints about the official papers, which accumulated
in the hands of the Commissioners, did not cease with the departure of

282 The Works of [1778

As to my not acquainting you with the opportunity
of writing to Congress by Mr. Deane, we had lately
written, and sent, by probably safe conveyances, all I
know of importance to write. I, therefore, did not^
propose, nor do I write any letter to the Committee*
by him, especially as in my opinion, considering the]
route he was to take, he would not arrive so soon"
as other vessels, which may sail long after him. An^
he could himself give as good an account of our being
at court, the only public transaction since our last let-
ters, as we could write.

Mr. Deane. They continued long after Mr. Adams took the place of
that Commissioner. For some time Mr. Adams lived in the same house
with Dr. Franklin at Passy. To one of Mr. Lee's letters on this subject,
Mr. Adams replied as follows:

"I have not asked Dr. Franklin's opinion concerning your proposal
of a room in your house for the papers, and an hoiu" to meet there,
because I know it would be in vain ; for I think it must appear to him
more unequal still. It cannot be expected, that two should go to one,
when it is as easy again for one to go to two; not to mention Dr.
Franklin's age, his rank in the coimtry, or his character in the world;
nor that nine tenths of the public letters are constantly brought to this
house, and will ever be carried where Dr. Franklin is. I will ven-
ttire to make a proposition in my turn, in which I am very sincere ; it
is that you would join families with us. There is room enough in this
house to accommodate us all. You shall take the apartments which
belong to me at present, and I will content myself with the library
room and the next to it. Appoint a room for business, any that you
please, mine or another, a person to keep the papers, and certain
hoiu-s to do business. This arrangement will save a large sum of money
to the public, and, as it would give us a thousand opportimities of con-
versing together, which now we have not, and, by having but one
place for our coimtrymen and others to go to, who have occasion to
visit us, would greatly facilitate the public business. It would remove
the reproach we lie under, of which I confess myself very much ashamed,
of not being able to agree together, and would make the Commission
more respectable, if not in itself, yet in the estimation of the English,
the French, and the American nations; and, I am sure, if we judge by
the letters we receive, it wants to be made more respectable, at least
in the eyes of many persons of this cotmtry. — Passy, October lo,
1778." — Editor.

1778] Benjamin Franklin 283

You ask me why I act so inconsistently with my
duty to the public? This is a heavy charge, sir,
which I have not deserved. But it is to the public
that I am accountable, and not to you. I have been
a servant to many publics, through a long life ; have
served them with fidehty, and have been honored by
their approbation. There is not a single instance of
my ever being accused before of acting contrary to
their interest or my duty. I shall account to the
Congress, when called upon, for this my terrible of-
fence of being silent to you about Mr. Deane's and
M. Gerard's departure. And I have no doubt of
their equity in acquitting me.

It is true, that I have omitted answering some of
your letters, particularly your angry ones, in which
you, with very magisterial airs, schooled and docu-
mented me, as if I had been one of your domestics.
I saw in the strongest light the importance of our liv-
ing in decent civility towards each other, while our
great affairs were depending here. I saw your jeal-
ous, suspicious, malignant, and quarrelsome temper,
which was daily manifesting itself against Mr. Deane
and almost every other person you had any concern
with. I, therefore, passed your affronts in silence,
did not answer, but burnt, your angry letters, and re-
ceived you, when I next saw you, with the same civil-
ity, as if you had never written them. Perhaps I may
still pursue the same conduct, and not send you these.
I believe I shall not, unless exceedingly pressed by
you; for, of all things, I hate altercation.

One word more about the accounts. You tell me
that my reason for not settling the accounts before

284 The Works of [1778

was, that it was not my business ; now, it seemed my
business only, and Mr. Deane had nothing to do with
it. Both these positions are imaginary. I could never
have given any such reasons, being always willing to
settle accounts with everybody, and not having the
least motive to delay or postpone the settlement of
these. Nor could it seem that I should say Mr.
Deane had nothing to do with it. He had done what
he could towards it, and, being actually gone, could
do no more. The infinity of business we have had is
the true and only reason, that I know of, why they
have not been settled — that is, why we did not meet,
sit down, and compare the vouchers with the articles
in the banker's account, in order to see that his charges
were supported, and that he had given us due credit
for the moneys we had put into his hands. This, I
apprehend, is all we have to do here. It is to the
Congress we are separately to account for the sep-
arate drafts we have made on him. This, Mr. Deane
can do when he arrives, having taken a copy of the
account with him.

If you think we should account to one another for
our expenses, I have no objection, though I never
expected it. I believe they will be found very
moderate. I answer mine will, having had only the
necessaries of life, and purchased nothing besides,
except the EncyclopcBdia, nor sent a sixpence' worth
of any thing to my friends or family in America. I
have the honor to be your obedient servant,

B. Franklin.

1778] Benjamin Franklin 285

DCXCIII

TO ARTHUR LEE

Passy, 6 April, 1778.

Sir: — Mr. Williams had orders from Mr. Deane
and myself to purchase and make up a large quantity
of clothing, and ship the same in pursuance of the or-
ders of Congress. I imagine you were not in France
when this measure was taken, and so could not be
consulted. But you certainly have been acquainted
with it since your return. I never heard that you
made any objection to it, and you may at any time
have fuller information if desired. I think the orders
of any two of us, in these cases, are sufficient, and
that, if we have given directions to an agent of ours
to draw on our banker in discharge of contracts made
properly for the public service, his drafts ought to be
honored. The reason of permitting him to draw on
our banker, instead of ourselves, was, as I understand
it, convenient at that time to mask more effectually
our building and equipping vessels of force. If, in a
single instance, he is known or suspected to have
abused this confidence placed in him, I am ready to
join with you in putting a stop to his proceedings by
ordering his bills to be protested. If not, I think the
public service requires that he should complete his
orders, which, as far as I have ever heard, he has
hitherto executed with great care, fidelity, and
ability.

As to the want of funds with Mr. Grand, I suppose
that, before the bills drawn on him became due, which

286 The Works of [1778

are charged to his account, and bring the balance
against us, he will be fully supplied with what are
necessary.

I send you herewith sundry letters relating to our
affairs, for your perusal and advice upon them. I
have the honor to be, etc., B. Franklin.

DCXCIV

TO THE GRAND PENSIONARY OF HOLLAND

Paris, io April, 1778.

Sir: — We have the honor of acquainting your Ex-
cellency that the United States of North America
being now an independent power, and acknowledged
as such by this court, a treaty of amity and commerce
is completed between France and the said States, of
which we shall speedily send your Excellency a copy,
to be communicated, if you think proper, to their
High Mightinesses, for whom the United States have
the greatest respect, and the strongest desire that a
good understanding may be cultivated, and a mutu-
ally beneficial commerce established, between the
people of the two nations, which, as will be seen,
there is nothing in the above-mentioned treaty to
prevent or impede.

We have the honor to be, with great respect,

Your Excellency's, etc.

[On a separate paper.]

The above is so written as that you may show it on
occasion. We send enclosed a proposed draft of a

1778] Benjamin Franklin 287

letter to the Grand Pensionary; but as we are unac-
quainted with forms, and may not exactly have hit
your idea with regard to the matter and expression,
we wish you would consult with our friend upon it,
and return it with the necessary corrections.

P- S. — The letters you mention coming to you
from England are for Mr. William Lee, and you will
be so good as to forward them, with his name super-
scribed, and enclosed to Messrs. Faederic Gontard &
Fils, Banquiers k Frankfort sur la Maine.

DCXCV

TO M. DUMAS'

Passy, io April, 1778.

Sir:— We received duly your despatch of the 3d
instant, and approve very much the care and pains
you constantly take in sending us the best intelligence
of foreign affairs. We have now the pleasure of ac-
quainting you that Mr. John Adams, a member of
Congress, appointed to succeed Mr. Deane in this
Commission, is safely arrived here. He came over in
the Boston, a frigate of thirty guns belonging to the

^ The occasion of this letter is thus described by John Adams in his
Diary, Works of John Adams, Vol. III., p. 124:

" When Mr. Lee arrived at my lodgings one morning, it was proposed
that a letter should be written to M. Dumas at the Hague, to inform
him of my arrival; and my colleagues proposed that I should write it.
I thought it an awkward thing for me to write an account of myself,
and asked Dr. Franklin to write it, after we should have considered
and agreed upon what should be written, which I thought the more
proper, as he was the only one of us who had been acquainted with M.

288 The Works of [1778

United States. In the passage they met and made
prize of a large EngUsh letter-of -marque ship of four-
teen guns, the Martha, bound for New York, on
whose cargo ;;^7 0,000 sterling was insured in London.
It contains abundance of necessaries for America,
whither she is despatched, and we hope will get well
into one of our ports.

Mr. Adams acquaints us that it had been moved in
Congress to send a minister to Holland, but that al-
though there was the best disposition towards that
country, and desire to have and maintain a good im-
derstanding with their High Mightinesses and a free
commerce with their subjects, the measure was re-
spectfully postponed for the present, till their senti-

Dtimas. Accordingly, on the loth of April the letter was produced in
these words, which I insert at full length, because it was the only-
public letter, I believe, which he wrote while I was with him in the
Commission. ' '

Charles William Frederick Dumas was a Swiss by birth, though he
passed a large portion of his life in Holland. He was a man of letters,
skilled in modem as well as the ancient languages, and in 1770, or
thereabouts, edited an edition of Vattel's work on the Laws of
Nations. When in Holland, shortly before returning to America,
Dr. Franklin became acquainted with Dumas, and in 1775 recom-
mended him to the Committee of Secret Correspondence in Congress
as a suitable person to act as the secret agent of the committee in
Holland. Dr. Franklin, who was a member of the committee, wrote
his instructions, which bear date December 19, 1775, and on the 30th
of April, 1776, Dumas commenced a correspondence which continued
without interruption until John Adams was appointed Minister
Plenipotentiary, when Dumas was employed by him as secretary and
translator. When Mr. Adams was called to Paris Mr. Dumas acted as
Charge d' Affaires, and in this capacity exchanged with the Dutch
government the ratification of the first treaty ever entered into between
the United States and the Dutch Government. His communications
were published by Mr. Sparks in Vol. IX. of The Diplomatic Corre-
spondence of the American Revolution, but as was too mttch his wont,
not without some regrettable liberties with their text. — Editor.

1778] Benjamin Franklin 289

ments on it could be known, from an apprehension
that possibly their connections with England might
make the receiving an American minister as yet incon-
venient, and (if Holland should have the same good-
will toward us) a little embarrassing. Perhaps, as our
independency begins to wear the appearance of greater
stability since our acknowledged alHance with France,
that difficulty may be lessened. Of this we wish you
would take the most prudent methods privately to
inform yourself. It seems clearly to be the interest
of Holland to share in the rapidly growing commerce
of her young sister republic; and as in the love of
liberty, and bravery in the defence of it, she has been
our great example, we hope circumstances and con-
stitutions in many respects so similar may produce
mutual benevolence; and that the unfavorable im-
pressions made on the minds of some in America, by
the rigor with which supplies of arms and ammuni-
tion were refused them in their distress, may soon be
worn off and obliterated by a friendly intercourse
and reciprocal good offices.

When Mr. Adams left America, which was about
the middle of February, our affairs were daily improv-
ing, our troops well supplied with arms and provisions
and in good order; and the army of General Burgoyne
being detained for breaches of the capitulation, we
had in our hands about ten thousand prisoners of the
enemy. We are, sir, etc.

VOL. VII.-

290 The Works of [1778

DCXCVI

TO EDWARD BANCROFT*

Passy, 16 April, 1778.

Dear Sir: — I wish you would assure our friend
that Dr. FrankHn never gave any such expectations
to Mr. Pulteney. On the contrary, he told him that

^ This Edward Bancroft was an adventurer from Connecticut, who
went to England, studied medicine, and settled as a physician in
London. Bancroft, the historian, says of him, that he accepted the
post of a paid American spy, to prepare himself for the more lucrative
office of a double spy for the British ministers.

"The French government," says Bancroft, "was deliberating on
the methods of encouraging commerce with the United Colonies.
Replying to an inquiry of the Comptroller-General, Vergennes, on the
loth, advised to admit their ships and cargoes without exacting
duties or applying the restrictive laws on their entry or departiire;
so that France might become the emporium of their commerce with
other European nations. 'Take every precaution,' so he admonished
his colleague, ' that our motives, our intentions, and, as far as possible,
our proceedings, may be hidden from the English.'

"The attempt at concealment was vain. On the nth, Vergennes
admitted Deane to an interview. Reserving for the king's considera-
tion the question of recognising the independence and protecting
the trade of the United Colonies, he listened with great satisfaction
to the evidences of their ability to hold out against British arms to the
end of the year, and gave it as his private opinion that, in case they
should reject the sovereignty of his Britannic Majesty, they might
count on the unanimous wishes of the government and people of
France, whose interest it would not be to see them reduced by force.
Received again on the 20th, Deane made a formal request for two
hundred light brass field-pieces, and arms and clothing for twenty-
five thousand men. The arms were promised; Du Coudray, a dis-
tinguished engineer, who had given lessons to Covmt d'Artois, and
who wished to serve in America, was employed to select from the
public arsenals cannon of the old pattern that could be spared;
and Beaumarchais, whom Vergennes authoritatively recommended,
offered merchandise on credit to the value of three millions of livres.
The minister did not suspect that Congress had committed its affairs
to a man who was wanting in discernment and integrity. But Deane
called over Bancroft as if he had been a colleague, showed him his

1778] Benjamin Franklin 291

the Commissioners could not succeed in their mission,
whether they went to recover the dependence or to di-
vide. His opinion is confirmed by the enclosed re-
solves, which perhaps it may not be amiss to publish
in England. Please to send me the newspaper.
Yours affectionately,

B. Franklin.

letters of credence and his instructions, took him as a companion in
his journeys to Versailles, and repeated to him exactly all that passed
in the interview with the minister. Bancroft returned to England,
and his narrative for the British ministry is a full record of the first
official intercourse between France and the United States. The
knowledge thus obtained enabled the British ambassador to embarrass
the shipment of supplies by timely remonstrances, for the French
cabinet was tmwilling to appear openly as the accomplice of the
insurgents." *

For Deane's misplaced confidence in this man there are some ex-
tenuating circumstances. Edward Bancroft had already achieved
some reputation in England as a physician and naturalist. He was
a Fellow of the Royal Society, and author of a work of some repute,
entitled, An Essay on the Natural History of Guiana. In 1769, he
had published a pamphlet supporting the legislative pretensions of
the colonists, and under Franklin's direction had written notices of
publications, relating to America, for the Monthly Review.

These were not all nor the most important considerations operating
to disarm Deane's distrust.

In the instructions given by the Committee of Secret Correspondence
to Silas Deane when he went to France as agent from Congress, they
wrote to him: " You will endeavor to proctire a meeting with Dr. Ban-
croft, by writing a letter to him, under cover to Mr. Griffiths, at Turn-
ham Green, near London, and desiring him to come over to you, in
France or Holland, on the score of old acquaintance. [Both were from
Connecticut.] From him you may obtain a good deal of information
of what is now going forward in England, and settle a mode of con-
tinuing a correspondence. It may be well to remit him a small bill
to defray his expenses in coming to you, and avoid all political matters
in your letter to him."

If these facts do not excuse, they much extenuate, Deane's con-
fidence.— Editor.

* Bancroft's Hist, of the United States, Vol. IX., p. 62.

292 The Works of [1778

DCXCVII

FROM DAVID HARTLEY

Paris, 23 April, 1778.

Dear Sir: — I will take care of all your commis-
sions. This moment a second packet of infinite value
is received, which I shall cherish as a mark of affec-
tion from you. I opened the letter by mistake,
which came with it, and soon saw it was not for me.
I hope you will excuse it. I choose rather to throw
myself upon your goodness for the excuse, than any
thing else. I shall not set out till between one and
two ; therefore, if you will be so good as to send me
another copy, I will take care of it, and deliver it
safely.

God bless you, my dear friend. No exertion or
endeavor on my part shall be wanting, that we may
some time or other meet again in peace. Your
powers are infinitely more influential than mine.
To those powers I trust my last hopes. I will con-
clude, "Blessed are the peace-makers."
Your affectionate friend,

D. Hartley.^

P. S. — If tempestuous times should come, take care
of your own safety; events are uncertain, and men
may be capricious.

DR. franklin's answer

I thank you for your kind caution, but having
nearly finished a long life, I set but little value on

I Mr. Hartley was in Paris, on a secret mission from the British
Ministry, with propositions for a peace, which Dr. Franklin did not
approve.

1778] Benjamin Franklin 293

what remains of it. Like a draper, when one chaf-
fers with him for a remnant, I am ready to say : "As
it is only the fag end, I will not differ with you about
it; take it for what you please." Perhaps the best
use such an old fellow can be put to, is to make a
martyr of him. B. Franklin.*

DCXCVIII

TO COUNT DE VERGENNES

Passy, 24 April, 1778.

Sir: — Mr. Hartley, a member of Parliament, an old
acquaintance of mine, arrived here from London on
Sunday last. He is generally in the opposition, es-
pecially on American questions, but has some respect
for Lord North. In conversation, he expressed the
strongest anxiety for peace with America, and ap-
peared extremely desirous to know my sentiments of
the terms which might probably be accepted if of-
fered; whether America would not, to obtain peace,

* After Mr. Hartley returned to London, a friend of Dr. Franklin re-
ceived an anonymous letter in cipher, dated May 15th, containing a
caution to him to be on his guard from another quarter. The writer
said: "Mr. Hartley told Lord Camden this morning that he was sure
the Commissioners, and particiilarly Dr. Franklin, were much dis-
concerted at Paris; for they might as well live in the Bastile, as be ex-
posed, as they were, to the perpetual observation of French ministerial
spies. This must not, however, be repeated."

In reply Dr. Franklin said: "Be so good as to answer our friend,
that it is impossible Mr. Hartley could have said what is here repre-
sented, no such thing having ever been intimated to him; nor has the
least idea of the kind ever been in the minds of the Commissioners,
particularly Dr. Franklin, who does not care how many spies are
placed about him by the Court of France, having nothing to conceal
from them." — Editor.

294 The Works of [1778

grant some superior advantages in trade to Britain,
and enter into an alliance, offensive and defensive;
whether, if war should be declared against France,
we had obliged ourselves by treaty to join with her
against England.

My answers have been that the United States were
not fond of war, and with the advice of their friends
would probably be easily prevailed with to make
peace on equitable terms ; but we had no terms com-
mitted to us to propose, and I did not choose to
mention any; that Britain, having injured us heavily
by making this unjust war upon us, might think her-
self well off, if on reparation of those injuries we
admitted her to equal advantages with other nations
in commerce, but certainly she had no reason to ex-
pect superior; that her known fondness for war, and
the many instances of her readiness to engage in wars
on frivolous occasions, were probably sufficient to
cause an immediate rejection of every proposition for
an offensive alliance with her; and that, if she made
war against France on our account, a peace with us,
at the same time, was impossible; for that, having
met with friendship from that generous nation, when
we were cruelly oppressed by England, we were
imder ties stronger than treaties could form, to make
common cause; which we should certainly do to the
utmost of our power.

Here has also been with me a Mr. Chapman, who
says he is a member of the Parliament of Ireland,
on his way home from Nice, where he had been for
the recovery of his health. He pretended to call on
me only from motives of respect for my character,

1778] Benjamin Franklin 295

etc. But, after a few compliments, he entered on a
similar discourse, urging much to know what terms
would satisfy America, and whether, on having peace
and independence granted to us, we should not be
wiUing to submit to the Navigation Act, or give
equivalent privileges in trade to Britain. The pur-
port of my answer to him was, in short, that peace
was of equal value to England as to us, and independ-
ence we were already in possession of; that, therefore,
England's offer to grant them to us could not be con-
sidered as proposing any favor, or as giving her a right
to expect peculiar advantages in commerce. By his
importunity, I found his visit was not so occasional
as he represented it; and, from some expressions,
I conjectured he might be sent by Lord Shelburne
to sound me and collect some information. On the
whole, I gather from these conversations that the
opposition, as well as the ministry, are perplexed with
the present situation of affairs, and know not which
way to turn themselves, or whether it is best to go
backward or forward, or what steps to take to extri-
cate that nation from its present dangerous situation.

I thought it right to give your Excellency an ac-
count of these interviews, and to acquaint you with
my intention of avoiding such hereafter ; as I see but
little prospect of utility in them, and think they are
very liable to hurtful misrepresentations.

By advices from London we learn that a fleet for
Quebec, with goods valued at five hundred thousand
pounds sterling, is to sail about the end of this month,
under convoy only of a single frigate of thirty guns,
in which is to go Governor Haldimand.

296 The Works of [1778

Enclosed I send a paper I have just received from
London. It is not subscribed by any name, but I
know the hand. It is from an old friend, of general
and great acquaintance, and marks strongly the
present distress and despair of considerate people in
England. I have the honor to be, with the greatest
respect, your Excellency's, etc., B. Franklin.

DCXCIX

FROM THE COUNT DE VERGENNES

Versailles, 25 April, 1778.

Sir: — I have made known to the king the sub-
stance of the letter which you did me the honor of
writing to me yesterday; and I am directed by his
Majesty to express to you the satisfaction he has
experienced from the information, which you have
communicated on your conferences with Mr. Hartley.
The grand principle of the English policy has always
been to excite divisions; and it is by such means
she expects to sustain her empire ; but it is not upon
you, nor upon your colleagues, that she can practise
such arts with success.

I entertain the same sentiments of confidence in
the United States. As to the rest, it is impossible to
speak with more dignity, frankness, and firmness
than you have done to Mr. Hartley ; he has no reason
to be very well satisfied with his mission. I doubt
whether this member of Parliament has any mission
for us ; but he desires to see me, and I expect him in
the course of the morning. I should not be at all
surprised, if his purpose be to sow distrust between

1778] Benjamin Franklin 297

us by proposing a double negotiation. That I can
obviate; but whatever passes between us, however
trifling it may be, you shall be made acquainted with.
I have the honor to be, with the most perfect con-
sideration, sir, etc., De Vergennes.

DCC

TO MR. JN. ROSS '

Passy, 26 April, 1778.

Sir: — The multiplicity of affairs we have lately
been engaged in, together with Mr. Deane's depart-
ure, who used to correspond with you, occasioned a
deficiency in answering your letters. On looking
them over I find some reflections on the Commis-
sioners as having acted an ingenious part relative to
the papers left by Mr. Thomas Morris. It appears
that you have not been well informed ; and therefore
I would now give you the history of the transaction.

On the death of Mr. Morris, it was represented to
the Commissioners that, on pretence of some kind of
partnership between him and Mr. Penet, that gentle-
man might probably get possession of the papers,
which would be attended with great inconvenience in
case of any dispute on a settlement of the public ac-
counts; and that, therefore, to prevent this, it was
necessary Mr. W. Lee, the surviving colleague,
should go down and take them into his custody, but,
to enable him to do that, an order from government
here should be obtained, directing the public officers

^ Endorsed: Letter to Mr. Jn. Ross, April 26, '78; not sent until
May 19, '78.

298 The Works of [1778

in whose hands they regularly were, to deliver them
to him; and the memorial requesting such an order
was brought to Mr. Deane and me, ready drawn by
Mr. A. Lee, to be signed, which we did without hesita-
tion; I, for my part, not having the least doubt that,
on receiving them, he would deliver to you those be-
longing to the affairs of Willing & Morris. When he
returned, he gave it as the reason of his not doing so
that you had quarrelled with him, used him rudely,
denied his authority to meddle with the public papers,
and required the whole to be delivered to you; on
which he had brought the trunk containing them up to
Paris as he received it, sealed by two gentlemen of
credit ; and he desired that, to prevent reflections or
suspicions, it might be opened and the papers divided
in our presence. We consented to this ; and I went to
his house for that purpose, where Mr. Izard attended
to verify the seals of the two gentlemen that were on
the trunk. But, Mr. Deane being hindered from at-
tending by an accident, the business was postponed;
and, as I soon after understood by your letters, that
Mr. Lee had had the papers under his particular ex-
amination several days before that formal sealing, of
which I therefore did not see the use, and apprehend-
ing some danger of being involved in your quarrel, I
refused, on consideration, to have any thing to do
with the opening and sorting of the papers. Mr. Lee
was about to set out for Germany, and intimated
that our not doing this must stop his journey. To
remove this obstacle, as Mr. Deane was going to
America, and Mr. A. Lee might soon go to Spain, I
let him know that if he chose to leave the trunk

1778] Benjamin Franklin 299

sealed in my care, to be delivered in the same state
to him or his order, I would consent to take it. He
accordingly brought it to my house, with a receipt to
that purpose ready written for me to sign. I signed
it accordingly, and thought that might have been
sufficient; but, so cautious is he, that, lest I should
deny my handwriting (I suppose this reason because
I cannot conceive another), he desired four persons
to put their hands to the receipt as witnesses. He
has, indeed, excused this since, by saying that he
meant only to have it appear that those gentlemen
being present approved of his delivery of the trunk
to me. This might do for two of them, Mr. Deane
and his brother, who, being Commissioners that with
me procured for him the power of taking possession
of them, had, therefore, some right to give their ap-
probation; but the two others, Mr. Izard and Mr.
Pringle, had no concern in the affair. Thus you see
how the trunk comes to be in my hands, and yet not
in my disposition. It is said to contain Mr. Morris'
papers. I know nothing of the contents, and can
know nothing of them, being obliged to deliver the
trunk sealed as I received it, and I refused to take
the ke}^; and, apprehending Mr. Lee to be a very
artful as well as disputatious man, I now wish I had
not even consented to receive it. You see here the
innocent part Mr. Deane and I have had in this
affair, yet Mr. Lee has reflected upon us in one of
his letters to me as countenancing you in treating
him ill at Nantes ; and you affront us as having given
him our sanction for inspecting and carrying off the
papers belonging to the house of Willing & Morris,

300 The Works of [1778

but nothing is more common than to pass censures
without knowing facts.

Mr. William Lee, in some conversation, expressed
his opinion that a power to receive the papers ought
to come from Mr. Morris' legal representative,
otherwise he could not deliver them. I mention this
for your information, as I suppose he will deliver
them to no other person, for he is much of a lawyer,
and would do every thing regularly. I am, sir, your
most humble servant, B. Franklin.

DCCI

TO ARTHUR LEE

Passy, 17 May, 1778.
Mr. Franklin is not inclined to sign this letter to
Mr, Grand: ^

1. Because he does not know that any inconven-
iences have arisen from the order originally given,
that the orders of each of us separately should be
honored.

2. Because Mr. Lee is pleased to be very angry with
him, which is expressed in many of his letters, and
therefore Mr. Franklin does not choose to be obliged
to ask Mr. Lee's consent, whenever he may have

I The following is a copy of the letter to Mr. Grand, the American
banker, which Mr. Lee requested Dr. Franklin to sign:

"Sir: — It is ovir desire that you accept no bills nor pay any money
out of the funds, which are or may be in yoiir hands to the credit of us
three jointly, without our joint order. As it has been the practice to
address letters upon the business of the Commission to Mr. Deane, we
desire that you will send to us all the letters you receive so directed,
and not give them to any private person."

1778] Benjamin Franklin 301

occasion to draw for his subsistence, as that consent
cannot be expected from any necessity of a reciprocal
compliance on Mr. Franklin's part, Mr. Lee having
secured his subsistence by taking into his own pos-
session one hundred and eighty-five thousand livres,
and his brother, by a deception on the Commissioners,
of forty-eight thousand.' Mr. Franklin has no ob-
jection to any resolution, that all contracts for the
public shall be made by joint consent, or at least by
a majority, together with the drafts for payment.
Indeed, he wishes that, if practicable, he might be
excused from any concern in matters of commerce,
which he so little understands. But, as we are sepa-
rately accountable to Congress for our personal
expenses, and Mr. Franklin does not desire to have
the least control in those of his colleagues, so neither
does he choose to subject his to the control of Mr.
Lee.

3. He declines signing this letter, because it orders
Mr. Grand to deliver to us all letters directed to Mr.
Deane, which may come into his hands; and, it being
understood that Dr. Bancroft is intrusted and em-
powered by Mr. Deane to receive his letters, and there
may be some concerning his private affairs, with
which we have no concern, and which it may be im-
proper for us to examine, Mr. Franklin thinks that
the supposition of a possibility, that they may relate
to the public, is not sufficient excuse for such gratifi-
cation of private curiosity. I have the honor to be,
etc., B. Franklin.

* This " deception, " as it is here called, is explained in the letter to the
Committee of Foreign Affairs, dated January 15, 1779.

302 The Works of [1778

DCCII

TO DAVID HARTLEY

Passy, 25 May, 1778.

Dear Sir : — I am glad to learn by the newspapers
that you got safe home, where I hope you found all
well.

I wish to know whether your ministers have yet
come to a resolution to exchange the prisoners they
hold in England, according to the expectations for-
merly given you. We have here above two hundred,
who are confined in the Drake, where they must
be kept, as we have not the use of prisons on shore,
and where they cannot be so conveniently accommo-
dated as we could wish. But as the liberal discharge
we have given to near five hundred prisoners taken
on your coasts has wrought no disposition to similar
returns, we shall keep these and all we take hereafter,
till your counsels become more reasonable. We have
accounts from the Mill Prison at Plymouth, that our
people are not allowed the use of pen and ink, nor
the sight of a newspaper, nor the conversation of
friends. Is it true ?

Be so good as to mention to me whether the two
little bills I gave you on Nesbit and Vaughn are ac-
cepted and paid, and the sums of each, as I have
omitted to make a note of them. Permit me to re-
peat my thankful acknowledgments for the very
humane and kind part you have acted in this affair.
If I thought it necessary I would pray God to bless
you for it. But I know he will do so without my
prayers. Adieu, and believe me ever etc.,

B. Franklin.

1778] Benjamin Franklin 303

DCCIII

TO JOHN PAUL JONES

Passy, 27 May, 1778.

Dear Sir: — I received yours of the i8th, enclos-
ing one for the Countess of Selkirk, which I forward
this day by way of Holland, as you desire. It is a
gallant letter, and must give her Ladyship a high and
just opinion of your generosity and nobleness of mind.

The Jersey privateers do us a great deal of mis-
chief by intercepting our supplies. It has been men-
tioned to me, that your small vessel, commanded by
so brave an officer, might render great service by fol-
lowing them where greater ships dare not venture
their bottoms ; or, being accompanied and supported
by some frigates from Brest, at a proper distance,
might draw them out, and then take them. I wish
you to consider of this, as it comes from high author-
ity, and that you would immediately let me know
what you think of it, and when your ship will be
ready.

I have written to England about the exchange of
your prisoners. I congratulate you most cordially
on your late success, and wish for a continuance and
increase of the honor you have acquired. It will al-
ways be a pleasure to me to contribute what may lie
in my power towards your advancement, and that of
the brave officers and men under your command. I
am, etc.,

B. Franklin.

304 The Works of [1778

DCCIV

TO JOHN PAUL JONES

Passy, I June, 1778.

Dear Sir: — I have the pleasure of informing you
that it is proposed to give you the command of the
great ship we have built at Amsterdam. By what
you wrote to us formerly, I have ventured to say in
your behalf, that this proposition would be agreeable
to you. You will immediately let me know your
resolution ; which, that you may be more clear in tak-
ing, I must inform you of some circumstances. She
is at present the property of the king; but, as there
is no war yet declared, you will have the commission
and flag of the United States, and act under their
orders and laws. The Prince de Nassau will make
the cruise with you. She is to be brought here under
cover of a French merchantman, to be equipped and
manned in France. We hope to exchange your pris-
oners for as many American sailors ; but, if that fails,
you have your present crew to be made up here with
other nations and French.

The other Commissioners are not acquainted with
this proposition as yet, and you see, by the nature of
it, that it is necessary to be kept a secret, till we have
got the vessel here, for fear of difficulties in Holland,
and intenniption. You will therefore direct your an-
swer to me alone, it being desired that, at present,
the affair rest between you and me. Perhaps it may
be best for you to take a trip up here to concert mat-
ters, if in general you approve the idea.

I was much pleased with reading your journal, which
we received yesterday. I am, etc., B. Franklin.

1778] Benjamin Franklin 305

DCCV

TO JOHN PAUL JONES

Passy, 10 June, 1778.

Dear Sir: — I received yours of the ist instant
with the papers enclosed, which I have shown to the
other Commissioners; but have not yet had their
opinion of them. I only know that they had before
(in consideration of the disposition and uneasiness of
your people) expressed an inclination to order your
ship directly back to America. You will judge from
what follows, whether it would not be advisable for
you to propose their sending her back with her people,
and under some other command.

In consequence of the high opinion the Minister of
the Marine has of your conduct and bravery, it is
now settled (observe, that this is to be a secret be-
tween us, I being expressly enjoined not to communi-
cate it to any other person, not even to the other
gentlemen) that you are to have the frigate from
Holland, which actually belongs to government, and
will be furnished with as many good French seamen
as you shall require. But you are to act under Con-
gress' commission. As you may like to have a num-
ber of Americans, and your own are homesick, it is
proposed to give you as many as you can engage out
of two hundred prisoners, which the ministry of
Britain have at length agreed to give us in exchange
for those you have in your hands. They propose to
make the exchange at Calais, where they are to bring
the Americans. Nothing is wanting to this, but
a list of yours, containing their names and rank;

3o6 The Works of [1778

immediately on the receipt of which, an equal number
are to be prepared and sent in a ship to that port,
where yours are to meet them. Pray send this list
by the return of the post if possible. If by this
means you can get a good new crew, I think it will
be best that you are quite free of the old, for a mix-
ture might introduce the infection of that sickness you
complain of. But this may be left to your discretion.

Perhaps we shall join with you the Providence,
Captain Whipple, a new Continental ship of thirty
gims, which, in coming out of the river of Providence,
gave the two frigates that were posted to intercept
her each of them so heavy a dose of her eighteen and
twelve-pounders, that they had not the courage, or
were not able, to pursue her. The Boston is sup-
posed to be gone from Bordeaux.

It seems to be desired that you should step up to
Versailles (where one will meet you), in order to
such a settlement of matters and plans with those
who have the direction, as cannot well be done by
letter. I wish it may be convenient to you to do it
directly. The project of giving you the command of
this ship pleases me the more, as it is a probable
opening to the higher preferment you so justly merit.
I have the honor to be, etc., B. Franklin.

DCCVI

TO DAVID HARTLEY

Passy, i6jvme, 1778.

Sir: — I received yours of the 5th inst. acquaint-
ing us that the ministry have at length agreed to an

1778] Benjamin Franklin 307

exchange of prisoners. We shall write Captain Jones
for the list required, which will be sent you as soon
as received. We understand there are at least two
hundred. We desire and expect that the number of
ours shall be taken from Forton and Plymouth, in
proportion to the number in each place, and to con-
sist of those who have been longest in confinement,
it being not only equitable that they should be first,'
but this method will prevent all suspicions that you
pick out the worst and weakest of our people, to
give in exchange for your good ones. If you think
proper to clear your prisoners at once, and give us
all our people, we give you our solemn engagement,
which we are sure will be punctually executed, to
deliver to Lord Howe in America, or to his order,
a number of your sailors equal to the surplus, as soon
as the agreement arrives there.

There is one thing more which we desire may be
observed. We shall note in our lists the names and
number of those in the service of the king, distin-
guishing them from those taken in the merchants'
service; that in the exchange to be made you may
give adequate number of those in the service of the
States, and of our merchants. This will prevent any
uneasiness among your navy men and ours, if the
seamen of merchantmen are exchanged before them.
As It will be very troublesome and expensive, as well
as fatiguing to them, to march our people from Brest
to Calais, we may endeavor to get leave for your
ship to come to the road of Brest to receive them
there; or, if that cannot be, we must desire from
your Admiralty a passport for the ship that is to

3o8 The Works of [1778

convey them from Brest to Calais. If you have any
of our people still prisoners on board your ships of
war, we request they may be put into the prisons, to
take their chance of exchange with the rest.

DCCVII

TO JAMES HUTTON

Passy, 23 June, 1778.

My dear old friend has here the paper he desired. '
We have had a marble monument made at Paris for
the brave General Montgomery, which is gone to
America. If it should fall into the hands of any of
your cruisers, I expect you will exert yourself to get
it restored to us, because I know the generosity of
your temper, which likes to do handsome things as
well as to make returns. You see we are unwilling
to rob the hospital; we hope your people will be found
as averse to pillaging the dead. Adieu. Yours, etc.,

B. Franklin.

DCCVIII

TO AN ENGRAVER IN PARIS

Passy, 24 June, 1778.

Sir: — On reading again the prospectus and ex-
planation of your intended print, I find the whole
merit of giving freedom to America continues to be
ascribed to me, which, as I told you in our first con-
versation, I could by no means approve of, as it
would be unjust to the numbers of wise and brave

^ Passport for a vessel which was about to be sent to the Moravian
missionaries on the coast of Labrador. See infra, March 10, 1779.

1778] Benjamin Franklin 309

men who, by their arms and counsels, have shared
in the enterprise, and contributed to its success (as
far as it has yet succeeded), at the hazard of their
lives and fortunes.

My proposition to you was, and continues to be,
that, instead of naming me in particular in the ex-
planation of the print, it should be said: " The Con-
gress, represented by a senator in Roman dress, etc.''
As it stands, I cannot consent to accept the honor
you propose to do me by dedicating the print to me,
which, I understand, is in this country considered as
an approbation; and in my own country it would
hurt my character and usefulness, if I were to give
the least countenance to such a pretension by recom-
mending or proposing the sale of a print so explained.
Upon these considerations I must request that, if you
are determined to proceed in the engraving, you
would in a new prospectus change the explanation
as above proposed, and dedicate the print, not to
me, but to the Congress. I have the honor to be,
sir, etc., B. Franklin.

DCCIX

PROPOSED LETTER TO LORD NORTH ^ CONCERNING
PRISONERS

June, 1778.

My Lord: — The fortune of war having again
made a number of British seamen prisoners to the
United States, it is our duty to trouble you with a
renewal of our former request for an immediate ex-
change of prisoners in Europe. To detain imfortunate

I Not sent.

3^o The Works of [1778

men for months in prison and send them three thou-
sand miles to make an exchange which might take
place immediately and on the spot, is a most griev-
ous and unnecessary addition to the calamities of
war, in which we cannot believe the British govern-
ment will persist.

It is with the utmost regret that we find ourselves
compelled to reiterate to your Lordship our remon-
strances against your treating the citizens of the
United States, made prisoners by the arms of the
king of Great Britain, in a manner unexampled in
the practice of civilized nations. We have received
late and authentic information that numbers of such
prisoners, some of them fathers of families in America
having been sent to Africa, are now in the fort of
Senegal, condemned in that unwholesome climate to
the hardest labor and most inhuman treatment.

It will be our indispensable duty to report this to
the Congress of the United States, and retaliation
will be the inevitable consequence in Europe as well
as in America, unless your Lordship will authorize us
to assure Congress that those unhappy men, as well
as all others of our nation who have been treated in
a similar manner shall be immediately brought back
and exchanged.

Most earnestly we beseech your Lordship no
longer to sacrifice the essential interests of humanity
to claims of sovereignty,^ [of which the issue of our
most solemn appeal to Heaven has sufficiently
proved. It is a fatal mistake, by which you seem
to have been misled, to think that when you tram-

^ The lines in brackets are struck out in draft.

1778] Benjamin Franklin 311

pled upon humanity you triumphed too over us]
which your experience must by this time have con-
vinced you are not to be maintained.

We have the honor to be, etc.

DCCX

TO CHARLES DE WEISSENSTEIN *

Passy, I Jiily, 1778.

Sir : — I received your letter, dated at Brussels the
1 6th past. My vanity might possibly be flattered by
your expressions of compliment to my understanding,

* Dr. Franklin received a long letter from a man who signed himself
Charles de Weissenstein. The letter was dated "Brussels, Jime i6,
1778," and written in English. The writer was evidently a secret
agent from England, instructed to procure from Dr. Franklin some
kind of propositions for a peace. The name was doubtless assiimed;
and although the letter was dated at Brussels, it was probably written
in Paris.

The contents of the letter, considering the source in which it must
have originated, are curious and remarkable. The writer begins by
urging the impossibility that England should ever acknowledge the
independence of the colonies, and the certainty that France would
deceive and betray them. He, moreover, adds that in case Parliament
shoiild be induced to acknowledge their independence, the people of
England would not approve it, and posterity would never submit to
it. "Otir title to the empire," said he, ''is indisputable; it will be
asserted, either by ourselves or successors, whenever occasion presents.
We may stop awhile in our pursuit to recover breath, but shall as-
suredly resume our career again."

He then proceeds at much length to state a Plan of Reconciliation,
and the Outline of the Future Government in Ainerica. In the Plan is
the following extraordinary article: "As the conspicuous public part
which some American gentlemen have taken may expose them to the
personal enmity of some of the chief persons in Great Britain; and as it
is imreasonable that their services to their country should deprive
them of those advantages which their talents would otherwise have
gained them, the following persons shall have offices or pensions for
life, at their option, namely, Franklin, Washington, Adams, Hancock,

312 . The Works of [1778

if your proposals did not more clearly manifest a
mean opinion of it.

You conjure me, in the name of the omniscient
and just God, before whom I must appear, and by
my hopes of future fame, to consider if some expedi-
ent cannot be found to put a stop to the desolation
of America, and prevent the miseries of a general
war. As I am conscious of having taken every step
in my power to prevent the breach, and no one to
widen it, I can appear cheerfully before that God,
fearing nothing from his justice in this particular
though I have much occasion for his mercy in many
others. As to my future fame, I am content to rest
it on my past and present conduct, without seeking

etc., etc. In case his Majesty or his successors shotdd ever create
American peers, then these persons or their descendants shall be
among the first created, if they choose it, Mr. Washington to have
immediately a brevet of lieutenant-general, and all the honors and
precedence incident thereto, but not to asstune or bear any command
without a special warrant or letter of service for that piu-pose from
the king."

In the Outlines of Government it is provided that each colony shall
choose its own form, and have legislatures, but that all officers must
swear allegiance to the crown and Parliament of Great Britain; that
no American shall enjoy any office of trust or profit in Great Britain
without a special act of Parliament for that purpose; in every other
respect they are to enjoy the privileges of natural-bom Englishmen;
that "the judges of the courts shall be named by the king, and hold
their offices for life, and shall either bear titles as peers of America
or otherwise, as shall be decided by his Majesty; that a Congress shall
assemble once in seven years, or oftener, if his Majesty thinks fit to
summon it, but all its proceedings are to be transmitted to the British
Parliament, without whose consent no money shall ever be granted
by Congress or any separate State to the Crown ; that the great offices
of state shall be named in the compact, and that America shall pro-
vide for them; that the whole naval and military force shall be
directed by his Majesty; that the British Parliament shall fix the
naval and military force, and vote the sums necessary for its main-

1778] Benjamin Franklin 313

an addition to it in the crooked, dark paths you pro-
pose to me, where I should most certainly lose it.
This your solemn address would therefore have been
more properly made to your sovereign and his venal
Parliament. He and they, who wickedly began, and
madly continue, a war for the desolation of America,
are alone accountable for the consequences.

You endeavor to impress me with a bad opinion of
French faith ; but the instances of their friendly en-
deavors to serve a race of weak princes, who, by
their own imprudence, defeated every attempt to
promote their interest, weigh but little with me, when
I consider the steady friendship of France to the
Thirteen United States of Switzerland, which has

tenance, both by sea and land, and make laws for its regulation; that
a tariff of duties shall be fixed, which shall not be changed without
the mutual consent of both the Parliament of Great Britain and the
colony where the change is intended to be made; that British manu-
factures shall always have the preference over those of other nations,
and that no new taxes shall ever be imposed on them without the
previous consent of the ParHament of Great Britain."

Such are some of the features of the scheme proposed by this private
agent. Dr. Franklin understood it to proceed from high authority,
and framed his answer accordingly. He sent the agent's letter to the
Count de Vergennes, with a copy of his answer. They are now in the
Archives des Affaires Etr anger es in Paris, where the above abstract
was taken from the original, and where also a copy of Dr. Franklin's
answer was obtained by Mr. Sparks. John Adams in his "Diary"
says the reply was submitted to the Count de Vergennes, but was never
sent to Weissenstein. On the day, hour, and place appointed to meet
the messenger for a conference, the police reported the appearance of
a man, who walked about the place for a couple of hours, always keep-
ing the place of rendezvous in sight, and then disappeared. Adams
says they decided that the whole matter was too futile to be worth
reporting to Congress. For the same reason, possibly, the answer
of Franklin was not sent to Weissenstein. It was fortunate that this
futility was not discovered imtil after Franklin's letter was written. —
Editor.

314 The Works of [1778

now continued inviolate two hundred years. You
tell me that she will certainly cheat us, and that she
despises us already. I do not believe that she will
cheat us, and I am not certain that she despises us ;
but I see clearly that you are endeavoring to cheat
us by your conciliatory bills; that you actually
despised our understandings, when you flattered
yourselves those artifices would succeed; and that
not only France, but all Europe, yourselves in-
cluded, most certainly and for ever would despise us,
if we were weak enough to accept your insidious
propositions.

Our expectations of the future grandeur of Amer-
ica are not so magnificent, and therefore not so vain
or visionary, as you represent them to be. The
body of our people are not merchants, but humble
husbandmen, who delight in the cultivation of their
lands, which, from their fertility and the variety of
our climates, are capable of furnishing all the neces-
saries and conveniences of life without external com-
merce ; and we have too much land to have the least
temptation to extend our territory by conquest from
peaceable neighbors, as well as too much justice
to think of it. Our militia, you find by experi-
ence, are sufficient to defend our lands from inva-
sion; and the commerce with us will be defended
by all the nations who find an advantage in it. We,
therefore, have not the occasion you imagine, of
fleets or standing armies, but may leave those ex-
pensive machines to be maintained for the pomp of
princes, and the wealth of ancient states. We pro-
pose, if possible, to live in peace with all mankind;

1778] Benjamin Franklin 315

and after you have been convinced, to your cost,
that there is nothing to be got by attacking us, we
have reason to hope that no other power will judge
it prudent to quarrel with us, lest they divert us
from our own quiet industry, and turn us into cor-
sairs preying upon theirs. The weight, therefore,
of an independent empire, which you seem certain
of our inability to bear, will not be so great as you
imagine. The expense of our civil government we
have always borne, and can easily bear, because it
is small. A virtuous and laborious people may be
cheaply governed. Determining, as we do, to have
no offices of profit, nor any sinecures or useless ap-
pointments, so common in ancient or corrupted
states, we can govern ourselves a year for the sum
you pay in a single department, or for what one job-
bing contractor, by the favor of a minister, can cheat
you out of in a single article.

You think we flatter ourselves and are deceived
into an opinion that England must acknowledge our
independency. We, on the other hand, think you
flatter yourselves in imagining such an acknowledg-
ment a vast boon, which we strongly desire, and
which you may gain some great advantage by grant-
ing or withholding. We have never asked it of you ;
we only tell you that you can have no treaty with
us but as an independent state ; and you may please
yourselves and your children with the rattle of your
right to govern us, as long as you have done with
that of your king's being king of France, without
giving us the least concern, if you do not attempt to
exercise it. That this pretended right is indisputable,

3i6 The Works of [1778

as you say, we utterly deny. Your Parliament never
had a right to govern us, and your king has for-
feited it by his bloody tyranny. But I thank you
for letting me know a little of your mind, that,
even if the Parliament should acknowledge our in-
dependency, the act would not be binding to pos-
terity, and that your nation would resume and
prosecute the claim as soon as they found it con-
venient from the influence of your passions, and your
present malice against us. We suspected before that
you would not be actually bound by your conciliatory
acts, longer than till they had served their purpose
of inducing us to disband our forces; but we were
not certain that you were knaves by principle, and
that we ought not to have the least confidence in
your offers, promises, or treaties, though confirmed
by Parliament.

I now indeed recollect my being informed, long
since, when in England, that a certain very great per-
sonage, then young, studied much a certain book
called " Arcana Imperii. ' ' I had the curiosity to pro-
cure the book and read it. There are sensible and
good things in it, but some bad ones; for, if I re-
member rightly, a particular king is applauded for
his politically exciting a rebellion among his subjects,
at a time when they had not strength to support it,
that he might, in subduing them, take away their
privileges, which were troublesome to him; and a
question is formally stated and discussed. Whether a
prince, who, to appease a revolt, makes promise of in-
demnity to the revolters, is obliged to fulfil those pro-
mises. Honest and good men would say, Ay ; but this

1778] Benjamin Franklin 317

politician says, as you say, No. And he gives this
pretty reason, that, though it was right to make the
promises, because otherwise the revolt would not be
suppressed, yet it would be wrong to keep them,
because revolters ought to be punished to deter from
future revolts.

If these are the principles of your nation, no con-
fidence can be placed in you; it is in vain to treat
with you; and the wars can only end in being re-
duced to an utter inability of continuing them.

One main drift of your letter seems to be to im-
press me with an idea of your own impartiality, by
just censures of your ministers and measures, and to
draw from me propositions of peace, or approbation
of those you have enclosed to me, which you intimate
may by your means be conveyed to the king directly,
without the intervention of those ministers. You
would have me give them to, or drop them for, a
stranger, whom I may find next Monday in the
church of Notre Dame, to be known by a rose in his
hat. You yourself, sir, are quite unknown to me;
you have not trusted me with your true name. Our
taking the least step towards a treaty with England
through you, might, if you are an enemy, be made
use of to ruin us with our new and good friends. I
may be indiscreet enough in many things; but cer-
tamly, if I were disposed to make propositions
(which I cannot do, having none committed to me
to make), I should never think of delivering them to
the Lord knows who, to be carried to the Lord knows
where, to serve no one knows what purposes. Being
at this time one of the most remarkable figures in

3i8 The Works of [1778

Paris, even my appearance in the church of Notre
Dame, where I cannot have any conceivable busi-
ness, and especially being seen to leave or drop any
letter to any person there, would be a matter of
some speculation, and might, from the suspicions
it must naturally give, have very mischievous con-
sequences to our credit here.

The very proposing of a correspondence so to be
managed, in a manner not necessary where fair deal-
ing is intended, gives just reason to suppose you in-
tend the contrary. Besides, as your court has sent
Commissioners to treat with the Congress, with all
the powers that could be given them by the crown
under the act of Parliament, what good purpose can
be served by privately obtaining propositions from
us? Before those Commissioners went, we might
have treated in virtue of our general powers (with
the knowledge, advice, and approbation of our
friends), upon any propositions made to us. But, un-
der the present circumstances, for us to make propo-
sitions, while a treaty is supposed to be actually on
foot with the Congress, would be extremely improper,
highly presumptuous with regard to our constitu-
ents, and answer no good end whatever.

I write this letter to you, notwithstanding ; (which
I think I can convey in a less mysterious manner,
and guess it may come to your hands ;) I write it be-
cause I would let you know our sense of your pro-
cedure which appears as insidious as that of your
conciliatory bills. Your true way to obtain peace,
if your ministers desire it, is to propose openly to the
Congress fair and equal terms, and you may possibly

T778] Benjamin Franklin 319

come sooner to such a resolution, when you find that
personal flatteries, general cajolings, and panegyrics
on our virtue and wisdom are not likely to have the
effect you seem to expect; the persuading us to act
basely and foolishly, in betraying our country and
posterity into the hands of our most bitter enemies,
giving up or selling our arms and warlike stores, dis-
missing our ships of war and troops, and putting
those enemies in possession of our forts and ports.

This proposition of delivering ourselves, bound and
gagged, ready for hanging, without even a right to
complain, and without a friend to be found after-
wards among all mankind, you would have us em-
brace upon the faith of an act of Parliament! Good
God ! an act of your Parliament ! This demonstrates
that you do not yet know us, and that you fancy we
do not know you; but it is not merely this flimsy
faith that we are to act upon ; you offer us hope, the
hope of PLACES, PENSIONS, and peerages. These,
judging from yourselves, you think are motives
irresistible. This offer to corrupt us, sir, is with me
your credential, and convinces me that you are not
a private volunteer in your application. It bears
the stamp of British court character. It is even
the signature of your king. But think for a moment
in what light it must be viewed in America. By
PLACES, you mean places among us, for you take
care by a special article to secure your own to your-
selves. We must then pay the salaries in order to
enrich ourselves with these places. But you will
give us PENSIONS, probably to be paid too out of
your expected American revenue, and which none
The Works of [1778

of us can accept without deserving, and perhaps
obtaining, a sus-pension. Peerages! alas! sir, our
long observation of the vast servile majority of your
peers, voting constantly for every measure proposed
by a minister, however weak or wicked, leaves us
small respect for that title. We consider it as a sort
of tar-and-feather honor, or a mixture of foulness and
folly, which every man among us, who should accept
it from your king would be obliged to renounce, or
exchange for that conferred by the mobs of their
own country, or wear it with everlasting infamy. I
am, sir, your humble servant, B. Franklin.

DCCXI

TO MR. GRAND

3 July- 1778.

Mr. Franklin presents his respects to Mr. Grand,
and sends him the original letter of which he has
spoken. In another, Mr. Bingham says that the
slightest pretext suffices nowadays for the English to
seize and condemn goods of French merchants, who
cannot even transport the products of America from
one island to another without running the greatest
risks. In effect, many ships have been taken lately
into Dominique for the sole reason that they were the
productions of America.

It is to be remarked that before these difficulties
the French merchants could purchase tobacco, rice,
etc., from the Americans of the continent, to be
taken into France. If I am not mistaken, it is

1778] Benjamin Franklin 321

provided in the treaties that the ship of a friend pro-
tects the merchandise even of an enemy, much more
ought it to guarantee your own merchandise pre-
viously purchased from this enemy.

Mr. Bingham also says that the Court of Admiralty
at Dominique is constituted on such iniquitous
principles that it encourages condemnations, the
judges receiving a portion of the condemned mer-
chandise, so that one can hardly hope to save his
property, the fate of which depends upon their
judgment.

DCCXII

TO DAVID HARTLEY

Passy, 13 July, 1778.

Dear Sir: — Enclosed is the list of our prisoners,
which by an accident was long in coming to us.
There are supposed to be about fifteen more remain-
ing in the hospital, whose names we have not yet
obtained, and about as many who being recovered of
their wounds have been suffered to go home to Eng-
land. If you continue in the opinion of making the
exchange at Calais, you will send us the papers neces-
sary to secure the vessel that shall transport the men
from the ports where they are to that place against
capture ; as the marching them thither would be at-
tended with great inconveniences, and many of them
might desert on the way, from an apprehension of
being put on board men-of-war on their arrival in
England.

VOL. VII. — 21.

322 The Works of [1778

DCCXIII

TO JAMES LOVELL

Passy, 22 July, 1778.

Sir: — I received your favor of May 15th, and
was glad to find that mine of December 25th had
come to hand. Mr. Deane's brother writes it was
not signed, which was an accidental omission. Mr.
Deane is himself, I hope, with you long before this
time, and I doubt not every prejudice against him
is removed. It was not alone upon the proceedings
of Congress that I formed my opinion that such
prejudices existed. I am glad to understand that
opinion was groundless, and that he is likely to come
back with honor in the commission to Holland,
where matters are already so ripe for his operations
that he cannot fail (with his abilities) of being
useful.

You mention former letters of the Committee, by
which we might have seen the apprehensions of the
resentment of foreign officers, etc. Those letters
never came to hand. And we, on our part, are
amazed to hear that the Committee had had no line
from us for near a year, during which we had written,
I believe, five or six long and particular letters, and
had made it a rule to send triplicates of each, and to
replace those that we happened to hear were lost, so
that of some there were five copies sent; and as I
hear that Captain Young is arrived, who had some of
them, I think it probable that one of each, at least,
must have come to your hands before this time. Mr.
Deane's information, however, may supply the want

1778] Benjamin Franklin 323

of them, whose arrival, as he went with a strong
squadron of men-of-war, is more likely than that of
this vessel, or any other single one by which we
might send more copies.

The affair with M. de Beaumarchais will be best
settled by his assistance after his return. We find it
recommended to us, but we know too little of it to
be able to do it well without him.

There has been some inaccuracy in sending us the
last despatches of the Committee. Two copies of
the contract with M. Francy, and the invoices, came
by the same vessel, Captain Niles. And though one
of your letters mentions sending enclosed a resolution
of Congress relative to two articles of the treaty, that
resolution is not come to hand. There are circum-
stances in the affair of those articles that make them,
in my opinion, of no consequence if they stand, while
the proposing to abrogate them has an unpleasing
appearance, as it looks like a desire of having it in
our power to make that commercial kind of war,
which no honest state can begin, which no good friend
or neighbor ever did or will begin, which has always
been considered as an act of hostility that provoked
as well as justified reprisals, and has generally pro-
duced such as rendered the first project as unprofit-
able as it was unjust.

Commerce among nations, as well as between pri-
vate persons, should be fair and equitable, by equiva-
lent exchanges and mutual supplies. The taking of
unfair advantages of a neighbor's necessities, though
attended with temporary success, always breeds bad
blood. To lay duties on a commodity exported,

324 The Works of [1778

which our neighbors want, is a knavish attempt to
get something for nothing. The statesman who first
invented it had the genius of a pickpocket, and would
have been a pickpocket if fortune had suitably placed
him. The nations, who have practised it have suf-
fered fourfold, as pickpockets ought to suffer. Savoy,
by a duty on exported wines, lost the trade of Switz-
erland, which thenceforth raised its own wine; and
(to waive other instances) Britain, by her duty on ex-
ported tea, has lost the trade of her colonies. But, as
we produce no commodity that is peculiar to our
country, and which may not be obtained elsewhere,
the discouraging the consumption of ours by duties
on exportation, and thereby encouraging a rivalship
from other nations in the ports we trade to, is abso-
lute folly, which, indeed, is mixed, more or less with
all knavery. For my own part, if my protest were
of any consequence, I should protest against our ever
doing it, even by way of reprisal. It is a meanness
with which I would not dirty the conscience or char-
acter of my country.

The objections stated against the last of the two
articles had all been made and considered here ; and
were sent, I imagine, from hence, by one who is of-
fended that they were not thought of weight suffi-
cient to stop the signing of the treaty till the king
should, in another council, reconsider those articles,
and, after agreeing to omit them, order new copies
to be drawn, though all was then ready engrossed on
parchment as before settled. I did not think the ar-
ticles of much consequence ; but I thought it of con-
sequence that no delay should be given to the signing

1778] Benjamin Franklin 325

of the treaty after it was ready. But, if I had known
that those objections would have been sent to the
Committee, I should have sent the answers they
received, which had been satisfactory to all the Com-
missioners, when the treaty was settled, and until
the mind of one ' of them was altered by the opinion
of two other persons.^ It is now too late to send
those answers. But I wish, for the future, if such a
case should again happen, that Congress would ac-
quaint their Commissioners with such partial objec-
tions, and hear their reasons before they determine
that they have done wrong. In the meantime this
only to you in private; it will be of no use to com-
municate it, as the resolutions of Congress will prob-
ably be received and executed before this letter
comes to hand.

Speaking of Commissioners in the plural, puts me
in mind of inquiring, if it can be the intention of
Congress to keep three Commissioners at this court;
we have, indeed four with the gentleman intended
for Tuscany, who continues here, and is very angry
that he was not consulted in making the treaty,
which he could have mended in several particulars;
and perhaps he is angry with some reason, if the in-
structions to him do, as he says they do, require us to
consult him. We shall soon have the fifth, for the
envoy to Vienna, not being received there, is, I hear,
returning hither. The necessary expense of main-
taining us all is, I assure you, enormously great. I
wish that the utility may equal it. I imagine every

* Arthur Lee. — See Diplomatic Correspondence, Vol, II., p. 127.
2 Ralph Izard and William Lee.

326 The Works of [1778

one of us spends nearly as much as Lord Stormont
did. It is true, he left behind him the character of a
niggard ; and, when the advertisement appeared for
the sale of his household goods, all Paris laughed at
an article of it, perhaps very innocently expressed:
" Une grande quantite du linge de table, qui n'a jamais
serviy " Cela est tres vraisemblable,'' say they; ''car
it n'a jamais donne a manger."

But, as to our number, whatever advantage there
might be in the joint counsels of three for framing
and adjusting the articles of the treaty, there can be
none in managing the common business of a resident
here. On the contrary, all the advantages in nego-
tiation that result from secrecy of sentiment and uni-
formity in expressing it, and in common business
from despatch, are lost. In a court, too, where every
word is watched and weighed, if a number of Com-
missioners do not every one hold the same language
in giving their opinion on any public transaction, this
lessens their weight ; and when it may be prudent to
put on or avoid certain appearances of concern, for
example, or indifference, satisfaction, or dislike, where
the utmost sincerity and candor should be used and
would gain credit, if no semblance of art showed it-
self in the inadvertent discourse, perhaps of only one
of them, the hazard is in proportion to the number.
And where every one must be consulted on every
particular of common business, in answering every
letter, etc., and one of them is offended if the smallest
thing is done without his consent, the difficulty of
being often and long enough together, the different
opinions, and the time consumed in debating them,

1778] Benjamin Franklin 327

the interruptions by new applicants in the time of
meeting, etc., etc., occasion so much postponing and
delay that correspondence languishes, occasions are
lost, and the business is always behindhand.

I have mentioned the difficulty of being often and
long enough together. This is considerable, where
they cannot all be accommodated in the same house ;
but to find three people whose tempers are so good,
and who like so well one another's company and
manner of living and conversing as to agree well
themselves, though being in one house, and whose
servants will not by their indiscretion quarrel with
one another, and by artful misrepresentations draw
their masters in to take their parts, to the disturbance
of necessary harmony, these are difficulties still
greater and almost insurmountable. And, in con-
sideration of the whole, I wish Congress would sepa-
rate us.

The Spanish galleons, which have been impatiently
expected, are at length happily arrived. The fleet
and army returning from Brazil is still out, but sup-
posed to be on the way homewards. When that and
the South Sea ships are arrived, it will appear whether
Spain's accession to the treaty has been delayed for
the reasons given, or whether the reasons were only
given to excuse the delay.

The English and French fleets, of nearly equal
force, are now both at sea. It is not doubted but
that, if they meet, there will be a battle ; for, though
England through fear affects to understand it to be
still peace, and would excuse the depredations she
has made on the commerce of France, by pretences

328 The Works of [1778

of illicit trade, etc., yet France considers the war be-
giin, from the time of the king's message to Parlia-
ment, complaining of the insult France had given by
treating with us, and demanding aids to resist it, and
the answer of both houses, offering their lives and
fortunes. These, and the taking several frigates,
are deemed indisputable hostilities. Accordingly,
orders are given to all the fleets and armed ships to
return hostilities, and encouragement is offered to
privateers, etc. An ambassador from Spain is indeed
gone to London, and joyfully received there, in the
idea that peace may be made by his mediation. But
as yet we learn nothing certain of his mission, and
doubt his effecting any thing of the kind.

War in Germany seems to be inevitable, and this
occasioning great borrowings of money in Holland
and elsewhere, by the powers concerned, makes it
more difficult for us to succeed in ours. When we
engaged to Congress to pay their bills for the interest
of the sums they should borrow, we did not dream of
their drawing on us for other occasions. We have
already paid of Congress' drafts, to returned officers,
eighty-two thousand two hundred and eleven livres,
and we know not how much more of that kind we
have to pay, because the Committee have never let
us know the amount of those drafts, or their account
of them never reached us, and they still continue
coming in. And we are now surprised with advice
of drafts from Mr. Bingham, to the amount of one
hundred thousand more. If you reduce us to bank-
ruptcy here, by a non-payment of your drafts, con-
sider the consequences. In my humble opinion no

1778] Benjamin Franklin 329

drafts should be made on us without first learning
from us that we shall be able to answer them.

M. de Beaumarchais has been out of town ever
since the arrival of your power to settle with him. I
hope he will be able to furnish the supplies men-
tioned in the invoice and contract. The settlement
may be much better made with the assistance of Mr.
Deane, we being not privy to the transactions. We
have agreed to give M. Dumas two hundred louis a
year, thinking that he well deserves it. With great
esteem, I have the honor to be, etc.,

B. Franklin.

DCCXIV

TO DAVID HARTLEY

Passy, 3 September, 1778.

Dear Sir:— I received duly your favors of July
14th and August 14th. I hoped to have answered
them sooner by sending passport. Multiplicity of
business has, I suppose, been the only occasion of
delay in the ministers to consider of and make out the
said passport.

I hope now soon to have it, as I do not find there
is any objection made to it. In a former letter I
proposed to you that the exchange would, in my
opinion, be preferable at or near Brest, and I ex-
pected some time your answer on that point. But
perhaps you have not received my letter; you say
nothing of it.

I wish with you as much for the restoration of
The Works of [1778

peace, as we both formerly did for the continuance
of it. But it must now be a peace of a different
kind. I was fond to a folly of our British connec-
tions, and it was with infinite regret that I saw the
necessity you would force us into of breaking it. But
the extreme cruelty with which we have been treated
has now extinguished every thought of returning to
it, and separated us for ever. You have thereby lost
limbs that will never grow again.

We, too, have suffered greatly, but our losses will
soon be repaired by our good government, our indus-
try, and the fertiUty of our country. And we now
see the mischievous consequences of such a connec-
tion, and the danger of their being repeated if we
should be weak enough to enter into it ; we see this
too plainly ever to Hsten in the least to any such
proposition. We may therefore, with great pro-
priety, take leave of you in those beautiful lines of
Dante to the late mistress of his affection.

DCCXV

TO JOHN PAUL JONES

Passy, 6 September, 1778.

Dear Captain : — I received your favors of the 24th

and 31st of August. I am told, by M. de C ,'

that M. de S "" is sorry you did not go with M.

d'OrvilHers. He had sent orders for that purpose,
and your staying at L 'Orient occasioned your missing

^ Probably de Chaumont. ^ Probably de Sartine.

1778] Benjamin Franklin 331

the opportimity. Your letter was sent to the Prince
de Nassau. I am confident something will be done
for you, though I do not yet know what.

Dr. Bancroft has been indisposed, and I have not
lately seen him ; but I hear he is getting better, and
suppose he has written. I go out of town early this
morning for a few days, but the other Commissioners
will answer your letter. I am glad you have pro-
cured a guard for the prisoners. It is a good piece
of service. They have concluded in England to send
us an equal number of ours, and we expect to-morrow
to send the passport for their cartel ship, which is to
bring them. If we are to deliver theirs at Calais,
I should be for accepting thankfully the offer you
mention.

We have no news from America, but what comes
through England. Clinton's letter is in the London
Gazette, and for style and coloring is so Hke Keppel's
that I cannot help thinking neither of them originals,
but both the performance of some under-secret ary,
whose business it is to cook the news for the minis-
ters. Upon the whole, we learn that the English
army was well worried in its march, ^ and that their
whole fleet and forces are now blocked up in New
York by Washington and Gates on the land side, and
by Count d'Estaing by sea, and that they will soon be
in want of provisions. I sympathize with you in
what I know you must suffer from your present in-
activity; but have patience. I am, etc.,

B. Franklin.

I The march across New Jersey to New York, after the evactiation of
Philadelphia. Dtiring this march was fought the battle of Monmouth.

332 The Works of [1778

DCCXVI

TO DAVID HARTLEY

Passy, 14 September, 1778.

Dear Sir : — I now send you the passport required.
I postponed answering your last in hopes of obtaining
it sooner, but though it was long since agreed to,
much business in the Admiralty Department here
has, I suppose, occasioned its delay. The port of
Calais was not approved of, and I think the ports
mentioned (Nantes or L 'Orient) are better for you as
well as for us, not only as being nearer to Plymouth,
but as many of your sailors would probably have
found opportunities of deserting in the long march
from Brest to Calais, they being afraid of the press.
I understand that upwards of eighty more of your
people have been brought by otu-s prisoners into
France since the list I sent you, but I cannot now
send you their names. You have not mentioned
whether the proposition of sending us the whole of
those in your prisons was agreed to. If it is, you
may rely on our sending immediately all that come to
our hands for the future; or we will give you your
option, an order for the balance to be delivered to
your fleet in America. By putting a little confidence
in one another, we may thus diminish the miseries of
war. To make the expense of these exchanges more
equal, if another cartel ship should hereafter be neces-
sary, we hereby promise to send to England at our
charge ; and so it may continue to be done alternately
as long as the war continues.

1778] Benjamin Franklin 333

DCCXVII

franklin's notes on the condition of his health

FROM 1778-80

Passy, 4 October, 1778. As my constitution ap-
pears to have undergone some considerable changes
within the last three or four years, it may be of use
to make some notes of the changes past, and to
continue them, in order to ascertain what are hurtful
or beneficial.

I had enjoyed continued health for nearly twenty
years, except once in two or three years a slight fit of
the gout, which generally terminated in a week or
ten days, and once an intermitting fever, got from
making experiments over stagnate waters.

I was sometimes vexed with an itching on the
back, which I observed particularly after eating freely
of beef. And sometimes after long confinement at
writing, with little exercise, I have felt sudden pun-
gent pains in the flesh of different parts of the body,
which I was told was scorbutic. A journey used to
free me of them.

In 1773, being in Ireland, I was, after a plentiful
dinner of fish the first day of my arrival, seized with
a violent vomiting and looseness. The latter con-
tinued, though more moderate, as long as I stayed in
that kingdom, which was four or five weeks.

On my return I first observed a kind of scab or
scurf on my head about the bigness of a shilling.
Finding it did not heal, but rather increased, I men-
tioned it to my friend, Sir. J. P., who advised a

334 The Works of [1778

mercurial water to wash it, and some physic. It
slowly left that place, but appeared in other parts
of my head. He also advised my abstaining from
salted meats and cheese, which advice I did not much
follow, often forgetting it.

In 1775 I went to America. On the passage I
necessarily ate more salt meat than usual with me
at London. I immediately entered the Congress,
where, and with the Committee of Safety, I sat great
part of that year and the next, ten or twelve hours a
day, without exercise. We lost three members in
those years by apoplexies, viz.: Mr. Randolf, M.
Bary, and Mr. Lynch. I had frequent giddinesses.
I went to Canada. On the passage I suffered much
from a number of large boils. In Canada my legs
swelled, and I apprehended dropsy. Boils con-
tinued and harassed me after my return, but the
swelling of my legs passed off. The boils, however,
left round them a kind of dry scab or scurfiness,
which being rubbed off appeared in the form of white
bran. My giddiness left me.

In my passage to France, November, 1776, I lived
chiefly on salt beef, the fowls being too hard for my
teeth. But, being poorly nourished, I was very weak
at my arrival; boils continued to vex me, and the
scurf extending over all the small of my back, on my
sides, my legs, and my arms, besides what continued
under my hair, I applied to a physician, who ordered
me Mr. Bellosto's pills and an infusion of a root
called . I took the infusion awhile, but it

being disagreeable, and finding no effect, I omitted
it. I continued longer to take the pills, but finding

1778] Benjamin Franklin 335

my teeth loosening, and that I had lost three, I de-
sisted the use of them. I found that bathing stopped
the progress of the disorder. I therefore took the hot
bath twice a week, two hours at a time, till this last
summer. It always made me feel comfortable as I
rubbed off the softened scurf in the warm water;
and I otherwise enjoyed exceeding good health.

I stated my case to Dr. Ingenhousz, and desired
him to show it to Sir J. P. and obtain his advice.
They sent me from London some medicine, but, Dr.
Ingenhousz proposing to come over soon, and the
affair not pressing, I resolved to omit taking the med-
icines till his arrival.

In July the disorder began to diminish, at first
slowly, but afterwards rapidly ; and by the beginning
of October it had quitted entirely my legs, feet,
thighs, and arms, and my belly; a very little was
left on my sides, more on the small of my back, but
the whole daily diminishing.

I observed that there was no redness under the
scurf; if I took it once off it did not return. I had
hardly bathed in those three months. I took no
remedy whatever, and I know not what to ascribe
the change to, unless it was the heat of the summer,
which sometimes made me sweat, particularly when
I exercised. I had five boils just before the amend-
ment commenced, which discharged a great deal of
matter. And once my legs began again to swell, but
that went off in a few days, and I have been other-
wise extremely well and hearty.

The second instant, October, I ate a hearty supper,
much cheese, and drank a good deal of champagne.

336 The Works of [1778

The 3d, I ate no breakfast, but a hearty dinner,
and at night found my back itch extremely, near the
shoulders, which continues to-day, the 4th. I ate
some salted beef at dinner yesterday, but not much.
I wish the cool weather may not bring on a return of
the disorder.

Oct. 4th. The itching continues, but somewhat
abated.

Oct. 6th. Drank but one glass of wine to-day ; the
itching almost gone. I begin to think it will be bet-
ter for me to abstain from wine. My dinner to-day
was mutton, boiled, and fowl, with a good deal of
fruit.

Oct. 12th. I have lately drank but little wine.
The itching has not returned. The scurf continues
to diminish. But yesterday I observed my ankles
swelled. I suppose my having used no exercise
lately may be the cause.

Jan. 14, 1779. The swelling above-mentioned
continued some few weeks, being greatest at night;
my complexion at the same time not fresh. At
length the itching returned, and a new set of erup-
tions of scurfy spots appeared in many parts of
my body. My back had never been entirely cleared,
and the scurf began to increase there and extend
itself ; but it is not yet so bad as it has been, and it
seems to spare the parts that were before affected,
except in my back. The swelling has left my legs,
which are now as dry and firm as ever, and I feel
myself otherwise in perfect health, and have as much
vigor and activity as can be expected of my age ; so
that I begin to be more reconciled to this trouble-

1778] Benjamin Franklin 337

some disorder, as considering it an effort of nature
to get rid of peccant matter that might, if not dis-
charged, break up my constitution, etc.

Feb. 28, 1779. The disorder on my skin has con-
tinued augmenting. On Monday, the 1 5th, I dined,
and drank rather too freely at M. Darcy's. Tuesday
morning I felt a little pain in my right great toe. I
bathed that day in the hot bath, which I had long
omitted. A regular fit of the gout came on, which
swelled my foot exceedingly, and I have had a little
in my left foot. It is now going off, and I hope to
get abroad in a day or two. No remarkable change
in other respects. In this fit I had very little appe-
tite, which I do not remember to have been the case
in the former fits.

Jan. 16, 1780. I have enjoyed good health ever
since the last date. Towards the end of the sum-
mer most of the disorder in my skin disappeared, a
little only remaining on my left arm, a little under
each breast, and some on the small of my back. I
had taken at different times a good deal of Dr. Prin-
gle's prescription; but whether that occasioned the
amendment, or whether it was the heat of the sum-
mer, as I supposed in October, 1778, I am uncertain.
The disorder seems to be now increasing again, and
appears upon my hands. I am otherwise well; my
legs sound; to-morrow I enter on my seventy-fifth
year.

VOL. VII. — 22.

33^ The Works of [1778

DCCXVIII

TO F. GRAND ^

Passy, 14 October, 1778.

Sir : — I have considered the note you put into my
hands, containing a complaint of the conduct of Cap-
tain Conyngham in the Revenge privateer. We have
no desire to justify him in any irregularities he may
have committed. On the contrary, we are obliged to
our friends, who give us information of misconduct
of any cruisers, that we may take the occasion of
representing the same to our government, and
recommending more effectual provisions for sup-

I John Adams, in his diary, gives the following account of the gentle-
man to whom this letter is addressed: "Mr. Ferdinand Grand was a
Protestant, from Switzerland, who had a house in Paris. Himself, his
lady, niece, and sons, composed as decent, modest, and regular family
as I ever knew in France. It was, however, by M. Chaumont's in-
fluence with the Count de Vergennes and M. de Sartine that he ob-
tained the reputation and emolument of being the banker to the
American ministers. Sir George Grand, his brother, might contribute
something towards this favor, because he had kept an inn at Stock-
holm when the Cotmt de Vergennes was Ambassador of France in
Sweden, and accomplished the revolution of that kingdom to an
absolute monarchy. This was a mere measure of economy in the
French court, because, before, it has cost them, in bribes to the States,
more money than they could well afford. The meeting of de Vergennes
with the heads of the conspiracy had been held at Mr. Grand's inn,
and he was rewarded with a cross of St. Louis, which gave him the
title of Sir, as I suppose, having never heard that he had any English
knighthood, although he had lived in England, where he married
his daughter to the Major or Colonel who was afterwards General
Provost. This lady, as I presume, is the same who afterwards married
Colonel Burr, of New York, and was the mother of Mrs. Allston,
of South Carolina. Sir George was connected in partnership with the
house of Homeca Fizeau & Co., in Amsterdam, a mercantile and
banking company, and who had, or were supposed to have, the favor
and confidence of the French ministers of State." — Editor.

1778] Benjamin Franklin 339

pressing, punishing, and preventing such practices
in future.

By the papers I have the honor to send you en-
closed, and which I request you would put into the
hands of his Excellency, Count d'Aranda, the care of
the Congress to avoid giving offence to neutral powers
will appear most evident: First, in the commission
given to privateers, wherein it appears that sureties
are taken of their owners, that nothing shall be done
by them ''inconsistent with the usage and custom of
nations, ' ' and those sureties are obliged to make good
all damages. Courts of admiralty are regularly es-
tablished in every one of the United States for judg-
ing of such matters, to which courts any persons
injured may apply, and will certainly find redress.
Secondly, in the proclamation of Congress, whereby
strict orders are given to all officers of armed vessels,
to pay a sacred regard to the rights of neutral powers,
and the usage and customs of civilized nations, and
a declaration made that, if they transgress, they
shall not be allowed to claim the protection of the
States, but shall suffer such punishment as, by the
usage and custom of nations, may be inflicted on
them. Lastly, in the particular care taken by Con-
gress to secure the property of some subjects of Por-
tugal (a power that has not been very favorable to
us), although no reclamation has been made.

All these will show that the States give no coun-
tenance to acts of piracy ; and if Captain Conyngham
has been guilty of that crime, he will certainly be pun-
ished for it when duly prosecuted ; for not only a re-
gard to justice in general, but a strong disposition to

340 The Works of [1778

cultivate the friendship of Spain, for whose sovereign
they have the greatest respect, will induce the Con-
gress to pay great attention to every complaint, pub-
lic and private, that shall come from thence. I have
the honor to be, etc., B. Franklin.

DCCXIX

TO DAVID HARTLEY

Passy, 20 October, 1778.

Dear Sir: — I received your favor of the 9th in-
stant with a copy of the letter from the Admiralty
Office, relative to the proposed exchange of prisoners,
in which the precise number of those we have here is
desired. I cannot at present give it you, they being
disposed in different parts ; and indeed it will always
be difficult to be precise in it, the number continually
changing by new prisoners brought in and some
escaping. I think the list I formerly sent you was
near 200 '; since which, 60 odd have been brought
into France from the North Seas by Capt. McNeil,
and some by others of our cruisers, and I just now
hear that we have 100 more in Spain, taken by
one of our privateers in two New York packets,
one going thither, the other returning, 88 of which
are officers of your army. I wish their lordships
could have seen it well to exchange upon account;
but though they may not think it safe trusting to us,

^ [N. B. (by Hartley.)] In July there were about 258, and some
mast men, according to the list then sent, which I transmitted to the
Admiralty in July last.

1778] Benjamin Franklin 341

we shall make no difficulty in trusting to them. And
to expedite the exchange, and save the time that
obtammg a correct list would require, we make this
proposition: that if their lordships will send us over
250 of our people, we will deliver all we have in
France. If the number we have falls short of the
250, the cartel-ship may take back as many of those
she brings as the deficiency amounts to, delivering no
more than she receives. If our number exceeds the
250 we will deliver them all nevertheless, their lord-
ships promising to send us immediately a number
equal to the surplus. We would thus wish to com-
mence, by the first advance, that mutual confidence
which it would be for the happiness of mankind that
nations should maintain honorably with each other,
though engaged in war. I hope this will remove all
obstructions to a speedy completion of the business,
as the winter approaches and the poor prisoners on
both sides may suffer in it extremely.

DCCXX

TO DAVID HARTLEY

Passy, 26 October, 1778.

My Dear Friend:— I received yours, without
date, containing an old Scotch song, full of natural
sentiment and beautiful simplicity. I cannot make
an entire application of it to present circumstances;
but, taking it in parts, and changing persons, some
of it IS extremely apropos. First, Jennie may be

342 The Works of [1778

supposed Old England; and Jamie, America. Jen-
nie laments the loss of Jamie, and recollects with
pain his love for her, his industry in business to pro-
mote her wealth and welfare, and her own ingratitude.

" Young Jamie loved me weel,
And sought me for his bride,
But saving ane crown,
He had naithing beside.
To make the crown a pound, my Jamie ganged to sea,
And the crown and the pound were all for me."

Her grief for this separation is expressed very pathet-
ically.

" The ship was a wreck.
Why did na Jennie dee;
O why was I spared
To cry, Wae is me!"

There is no doubt that honest Jamie had still so much
love for her as to pity her in his heart, though he
might, at the same time, be not a little angry with
her.

Towards the conclusion, we must change the per-
sons, and let Jamie be Old England; Jennie, Amer-
ica. Then honest Jennie, having made a treaty of
marriage with Gray, expresses her firm resolution of
fidelity, in a manner that does honor to her good-
sense and her virtue.

" I may not think of Jamie,

For that would be a sin.
But I maun do my best,

A gude wife to be;
For auld Robin Gray

Is very kind to me."

^778] Benjamin Franklin 343

You ask my sentiments on a truce for five or
seven years, in which no mention should be made of
that stumbling-block to England, the independence
of America.

I must tell you fairly and frankly, that there can be
no treaty of peace with us, in which France is not
included.^ But I think a treaty might be made be-
tween the three powers, in which England expressly
renouncing the dependence of America seems no
more necessary than her renouncing the title of King
of France, which has always been claimed for her
kings. Yet, perhaps, it would be better for England
to act nobly and generously on the occasion, by
granting more than she could, at present, be com-
pelled to grant; make America easy on the score of
old claims; cede all that remains in North America;
and thus conciliate and strengthen a young power,
which she wishes to have a future and serviceable
friend. I do not think England would be a loser by
such a cession. She may hold her remaining posses-
sions there, but not without a vast expense ; and they
would be the occasion of constant jealousies, fre-
quent quarrels, and renewed wars. The United

' Mr. Hartley had written as follows: "I have told you before that
my heart is always set upon peace. In the present circumstances
between the two countries, I can only think of the proposition to
mediate. You may as easily imagine, that the immediate and explicit
acknowledgment of independence must be as grating to this country,
as I can that America will not finally depart from it. The answer
of the Congress to the Commissioners seems to imply this. What
think you of suspending this point for five or seven years, by a truce,
and that nothing in the interim shall impeach their independence?
If such a proposition as this would bring the parties together, I think
there would not be wanting a member of Parliament to propose it to
the House."

344 The Works of [1778

States, continually growing stronger, will have them
at last; and, by the generous conduct above hinted
at, all the intermediate loss of blood and treasure
might be spared, and solid, lasting peace promoted.
This seems to me good counsel, but I know it cannot
be followed.

The friend you mention must always be welcome
to me, with or without the cheeses ; but I do not see
how his coming hither could be of any use at present,
unless in the quality of a plenipotentiary to treat of
a sincere peace between all parties.

Your Commissioners are acting very indiscreetly in
America. They first spoke very disrespectfully of
our good ally. They have since called in question
the power of Congress to treat with them, and have
endeavored to begin a dispute about the detention of
Burgoyne's troops, an affair which I conceive not to
be within their commission. They are vainly trying,
by publications, to excite the people against the Con-
gress. Governor Johnstone has been attempting to
bribe the members ; and, without the least regard to
truth, has asserted three propositions, which, he
says, he will undertake to prove. The two first of
them I know to be false, and I believe the third to be
so.^ The Congress have refused to treat with the
Commissioners while he continues one of them, and
he has therefore resigned.

These gentlemen do not appear well qualified for
their business. I think they will never heal the

^ Time has confirmed the correctness of FrankUn's impressions. All
three of his propositions have proved false. — Editor.

1778] Benjamin Franklin 345

breach, but they may widen it. I am, my very dear
friend, yours most affectionately,

B. Franklin.

DCCXXI

TO MR. GRAND

Passy, 3 November, 1778.

We owe our thanks, sir, to the person who has
transmitted to us, through you, the complaint we
have received against Mr. Conyngham, and we can
assure him anew that, penetrated with respect for
S. M. C, nothing pains us more than complaints on
his part against our people. He will have seen, by
the papers transmitted by you at the time from us to
S. E. M. Count d'Aranda, the measures which Con-
gress have taken to prevent any misconduct on the
part of our privateers and seamen, and nothing better
proves its solicitude in this regard than the procla-
mation it has just issued, of which the enclosed No. 2
is a copy, and to which we join its resolution for the
protection of the property of a ship although belong-
ing to a power with which we have no sympathy.

But if one directs his attention to the atrocious
proceedings of the English towards all nations with-
out distinction, he will not be surprised that their
pernicious example finds imitators among some in-
dividuals of a nation which they have so greatl}^
outraged. But this does not excuse Conyngham.
It is a crime in our eyes to have displeased a power
for which Congress is penetrated with respect, and

346 The Works of [1778

although justified in seizing, by way of reprisals,
the English prize which Conyngham had brought to
Teneriffe to be sent to Martinique, we will none the
less inform Congress of the grounds for complaint
which this privateer has given to his Catholic
Majesty. This will certainly be a new motive for
paying to his flag the homage and respect which it
entertains for him. I hope from the wisdom as well
as from the justice of S. M. that he will confide in
this expression of our sentiments towards him and in
turn will permit us to experience the effects of them.
I have the honor to be, etc.,

B. Franklin.^

DCCXXII

TO DAVID HARTLEY

Passy, 29 November, 1778.

Dear Sir:— I have heard nothing from you lately
concerning the exchange of prisoners. Is that affair
dropped? Winter is coming on apace. I under-
stand that your charitable contribution is near
expended, and not likely to be renewed. Many of
those unfortunate people must suffer greatly. I
wish to have a line from you informing me what may
be depended on. I am as ever,

B. Franklin.

I Translated from a French version transmitted by Count Aranda to
Florida Blanca and now deposited in the Archivo General de Reino,
in Simancas. — Editor.

1778] Benjamin Franklin 347

DCCXXIII

TO DR. PRIESTLEY (pROBABLY)

You desire to know my opinion of what will prob-
ably be the end of this war, and whether our new
establishments will not be thereby reduced again to
deserts. I do not, for my part, apprehend much
danger of so great an evil to us. I think we shall be
able, with a little help, to defend ourselves, our pos-
sessions, and our liberties so long that England will
be ruined by persisting in the wicked attempt to de-
stroy them. I must nevertheless regret that ruin,
and wish that her injustice and tyranny had not
deserved it. And I sometimes flatter myself that,
old as I am, I may possibly live to see my country
settled in peace and prosperity, when Britain shall
make no more a formidable figure among the powers
of Europe.

You put me in mind of an apology for my conduct,
which had been expected from me in answer to the
abuses thrown upon me before the Privy Council. It
was partly written, but the affairs of public impor-
tance I have been ever since engaged in prevented
my finishing it. The injuries too that my country
has suffered have absorbed private resentments, and
made it appear trifling for an individual to trouble
the world with his particular justification, when all
his compatriots were stigmatized by the king and
Parliament as being in every respect the worst of
mankind. I am obliged to you, however, for the
friendly part you have always taken in the defence

348 The Works of [1778

of my character ; and it is indeed no small argument
in my favor that those who have known me most and
longest still love me and trust me with their most
important interests, of which my election into the
Congress by the unanimous voice of the Assembly or
Parliament of Pennsylvania the day after my arrival
from England, and my present mission hither by the
Congress itself, are instances incontestable. . . .
I thank you for the account you give me of M. Volt a 's
experiment. You judge rightly in supposing that I
have not much time at present to consider philosoph-
ical matters; but as far as I understand it from
your description, it is only another form of the Ley-
den phial, and explicable by the same principles. I
must, however, own myself puzzled by one part of
your account, viz., "and thus the electric force once
excited may be kept alive years together," which per-
haps is only a mistake. I have known it indeed to
be continued many months in a phial hermetically
sealed, and suppose it may be so preserved for ages ;
but though one may, by repeatedly touching the knob
of a charged bottle with a small insulated plate, like
the upper one of the electrophore, draw an incredible
number of sparks successively — that is, one after
every touch, and those for a while not apparently
different in magnitude, yet at length they will be-
come small, and the charge be finally exhausted.
But I am in the wrong to give any opinion till I have
seen the experiment.

I like much your pasteboard machine, and I think
it may, in some respects, be preferable to the very
large glass ones constructed here. The Due de

1778] Benjamin Franklin 349

Chaulnes has one, said, if I remember right, to be five
feet in diameter. I saw it tried, but it happened not
to be in order.

You enquire what is become of my son, the Gov-
ernor of New Jersey. As he adhered to the party of
the king, his people took him prisoner, and sent him
under a guard into Connecticut, where he continues ;
but is allowed a district of some miles to ride about,
upon his parole of honor not to quit that country.
I have with me here his son, a youth of about seven-
teen, whom I brought with me partly to finish his
education, having a great affection for him, and partly
to have his assistance as a secretary, in which capac-
ity he is very serviceable to me. I have also here
with me my worthy nephew, Mr. Williams, whom
you ask after. The ingenious Mr. Canton, our other
fellow-traveller, I suppose you know is now no more.

As to the present state of our affairs, which you de-
sire to be informed of, the English have long boasted
much in their gazettes of their successes against us ;
but our latest advices are that they have been re-
pulsed in their intended invasion of Pennsylvania,
and driven back through New Jersey to New York,
with considerable loss in three engagements, so that
the campaign will probably end pretty much as it
began, leaving them only in possession of the islands
which their naval strength secures to them ; and we
shall in the next campaign be much better provided
with arms and ammunition for their entertainment,
when our force is to consist of eighty-four battalions.

God bless you, my dear friend, and believe me,
ever yours most affectionately, B. Franklin.

350 The Works of [1778

DCCXXIV
B. franklin's personal expense account with

CONGRESS DURING HIS FIRST TWO YEARS' OFFI-
CIAL RESIDENCE IN PARIS

NO. I

Extract of a Resolution of Congress
In Congress, 6th August, 1779.

Resolved, That an allowance of eleven thousand
four hundred and twenty-eight Livres Toumois per
Annum, be made to the several Commissioners of the
United States in Europe for their services, besides
their reasonable expenses respectively.

That the Salary, as well as the expences, be com-
puted from the time of their leaving their places of
abode to enter on the duties of their offices, and be
continued three months after Notice of their Recal,
to enable them to return to their families respect-
ively. Extract from the Minutes.

(Signed) Char. Thomson, Sec'y.

Account of Expences by Bn. Franklin

I.

1776.
Deer. 3. To Cash paid for Tea Stoves and Bedding

laid in supposed about 600 Livres . 600

" Boat hire from Ships to

Auray . . . 1.t,() o o

" Expences at Auray . 14 19 o

" Carriage to and Expen-

ses at Vannes . . 37^2 o

6. A Cabriolet for Journey

to Paris . . . 600 o o

^l, s and c, stand for Livres, Sols or Sous and Centimes.

I778J
Deer. 6.

1777-
Jany. 4.

Deer.

Feb.

27.
Mar. 14.

April 23.
May I.

19.

26.
June 5.
May II.

July 6.

3°-
Augt. I.

Benjamin Franklin

Expenses to and at

Nantes . . . 174 5 o

Sending Baggage to

Paris . . . 78 14 6

Expenees to Paris and

at Versailles . .678 9 o
Paid Barge to Ship at St

Nazarre . . . /.60 o o

Paid 2 Casks of Wine

sent to Crew . .7200

Paid sundry small

Charges & Comm. .3186

Willinroy for Wiggs
Sundry Expenees going to & at Ver-
sailles this Month
Taylors Bill . /.900 4 6
of which for
W. T. F. . 212 o o

leaves for me

For Table Linnen, Sheets &c. .
Sundry Expenees in Family Furni-
ture
Simdry other Expenees .
Pillet my Servant for stmdry dis-
bursements .....
For 50 Bottles of Champaigne
Fruchard for Carriage and Horses .
Pillet for Household Expenees
Pillet for sundry Household Ex-
penees .....
Pillet for Household Expenees
Mdle. De Chaumont for Table
Linnen .....
Two Month's hire of the Remise
Carriage .....
Pillet for Household Expenees
For the Carriage 20 Days
For Do. 3 Days ....
Taylors Bill. /. 1,994 o o
of which for
W.T.F. . 1,146 4 6

leaves for me.

For writing Paper

Pillet for Housd. Expenees

Pillet for Cloathing himself 6 M'ths

& Wages for that time
For Cooks Wages 6 Months .
Pillet and his Wifes Washing &

other expenees
Cleaning Appartments one Month
Harness compleat for two Horses
Lefark for Washing

1,619 16 6

[63 8 6

:oi 5 o
58 18 o
1,744

1-372
176
360
190
216 12 6

720 o o

389 12 6

240 o o

37 o o

847 15
382 8
150

34 17
15 o
The Works of

[1778

Sept.

Oct. 14.

17-
29.

r. J778.
Feb. 5.

Re^nise from ist Augt. to this Day-
Bills, &c

Upholsterers Bill

Servants for their Dinners in Paris

Hatters Bill

For mending of Harness

Fixing the Stove &c.
36
37
7

Passy, October 4, 1778.

Z.12,777 9

NO. 3

Account of B. Franklin's Expences paid out of Monies drawn
from Banker by Franklin & Deane jointly taken from
joint-Expence Book

Jan.

Feb.

1777.

^5-
26.

Sept. 29.

Nov.

Deer.

1778.
Jany. 3.

Paid Servants' Expences to Passy .

Coffee House Acct. of Postage, &c

Paper of various sorts, Wax, &c.

Washing

Mending of Truncks

Washing

Do

Six Pound of Wax Taper

Champaignes, Wages

Expenses of the Horses at Passy &

Sadlers Work ....
Hill the Tay- 1

lor, his Bill . /.504 o o V

of which for

W. T. F. . 367 10 o J

leaves,

St. Louis Expences at Paris
Washing from 25 Augt. to 14 Nov. .
Charles, Coachman, his Expences to

Paris

To Do. his Wages from i Sept. to ist

Deer.

To Do. his Allowance for Wine, for

the same Time ....
Dumonts Wages from 10 Augt. to

10. Deer

To Do. his Allowance for Wine
To Do. his Expences at Paris .
Renault for Halters & Bridles for B.

F. horses
To Do. for a Coach Glass
Charles the Coachman, his Wages &

Expences to nth Deer.

St. Louis Account of Expences when
at Paris

136 10
21 14
67 5
59 19
1778]

Benjamin Franklin
Jany. i6.
17-

Feby.

1 6.
AprA 13

Baton for
Horses

Tailors Bill .
of which for
W. T. F. .

the Hire of Carriage
1.44.4 o o
333 o o

Dumonts Expenses at Paris & allow-
ance for Six Months Washing
St. Louis Six Months Wages & Wash-
ing

To Do. Expences when at Paris
Baton for Carriage and Horses
St. Louis two months Wages & Sun-
dry Expences . . . .
-leaves for me, 1 1 1

56 6

148 o

43 4

336 o

153 5

Passy, October 4, 1778.

1.2,128 8

NO. 4

Account of B. Franklin's Expences paid out of Monies drawn
from Banker by Franklin & Adams jointly taken from
Joint Expence Book

April 10.

May

June

July

Aug.

12.

15-
19.

5-

6.
9-

22.
4-

S-
13-

Paid Baton for hire of Carriages & Horses 2

Mo. . . . .
Dumont's Wages from 10. Deer, to

20. Apl. & Stmdry Expences
For Washing
St. Louis Wages &c. from 21 Mar. to

this Day

To Do. for Dinners when from home
Washing

Do

Three Hats for Servants

Blondin i Mo. Service, Wine and

Washing ....
Dumonts Acct. of Dinners &c. .
Mr. Whischall for Books and political

Pamphlets
Calais's Dinners &c.
5 Volumes of Atlas maritime (for pub

Use) . . . . .

Washing from 18 May to this Day
Blacksmith ....
Calais's Dinner &c.
Dumont at his Departure in full of

Wages &c.
Washing ....

663 o

174 5

57 4

34 12
41 18
18 o
24 16
33 o

61 17
44 13

75 o
32 6

120 o
60 7

37 o
48 o

Passy, October 4, 1778.

VOL. VII.— 23.

,720
The Works of

[1778

NO. 5

Account of Bn. Franklin & S. Deane's joint Expences, paid out
of Cash drawn jointly from the Banker

1777-
Jan. 25.

Feb.

3-

Feb.

6.

15-

23-

April
Aug.

26.

4-

14.

Sept.

27.

Oct.

6.

14-

Nov.

19.

Dec.

I.

1778.

Jan. 17.

Feb.

24.
Mar. 25.

April I.

From Expence Book at Hotel in Paris.

Paid hire of a Remise from 22 Deer, to 20

Jan. ......

Gave Coachman ....

Paid family Expences from to do.

Paid Wine Merchants acct.

Paid Acct. with Coffee House

Paid Breakfast Bill to 21. Jan.

Paid Traiteur, Bill from 2 1 Deer, to 2 1 Jan

Paid Le Fark for Family Expences .

Paid loss on Copper Money

Paid Le Fark acco't of Family Expences

Paid do. acco't do.

Paid hire of a Remise i. month & Driver

Paid the Tariteur Bill

Paid Breakfast Bill

Paid Wine Merchant

Paid Le Fark for Family Expences .

Paid Coffee House Bill

Paid Copper Smith Bill .

Paid Hire of Coach & Horses by Order on

Grand .....

Paid Le Fark for Family Expences at

Passy from 7. Aug. to 7. Sept.
Paid for 20 Cord of Wood
Paid Le Fark on Acct. Family Expences 7

Sept. to 7 Oct

Paid Miss Chaumont for several Bills she

Pf,

Paid Le Fark for Family Expences in part
Paid do. the whole do. from Oct. 8 to Nov. !
Paid for Champaign . . . .
Paid Blacksmith Work done at Passy
Paid Le Fark Family Expences from Nov
8 to 8 Deer.

Paid Mr. Bonne for opening Gates for i

year

Paid Le Fark in part Family Expences
Paid Upholsters acct.
Ps-id 3, IMGSscnsrcr , . . •

Paid Miss Chaiimont for Sundry Bills she

Paid for Paper ....

Paid Le Fark in part of Family Expences

Paid Le Fark in part of Family Expences

Paid Dinner at Versailles 19 Persons 20

this month ......

Paid Le Fark in part Family Expences .
0
36
0
14
240
0
12
«7
0
19
48
0
0
102
0
II
372
0
18
62
0
0
143
0
2
195

II
2,448
0

1,358
0
0
1,281
0
17
549
6

1,470
b
0
164
0
0
0
0

I
709
2 5
1,200
1,200
222
960
1778]

Benjamin Franklin
April 3.
9-

Paid Le Park Family Expences in full to 8

March . . •

Paid a Messenger to Paris
Paid Brtinel for Joiners Work
B. F. half
S. D. do.
Passy October 4, 1778.

^•9,569
9.569

^•19-139 13 6

NO. 6

Account of B. Franklin & Adams joint Expences paid out of
Cash drawn jointly from the Banker

1778.
Apnl 16.

23-

25-

May I.

June

July

Aug. 8.

Paid Mad'm La Fark in part of Family Ex-
pences ......

Paid Wood merchant ....

Paid for 900 Bottles for Wine

Paid M. la Fark on acct. of Family Ex-
pences ......

Paid Dinner for Americans at Versailles
when M. Adams was presented to the
king

Paid M. la Fark on acco't of Family Ex-
pences .....

Paid for Sealing Wax

Paid Chaumont for Carriage and Horses

Paid for Stationary ....

Paid M. La Fark in part Family Expences

Paid for blank Books & maps

Paid for keping the Bay Horse from i mar
to 10 may ......

Paid Sundry Postages

Paid Dennis the Frotteur, Wages f'm 26
Nov., 1777 to 26 may 78

Paid M. La Fark in part Family Expences

Paid M. La Fark in full of Family Expences
f'm 8 mar. to 8 this month

Paid Stationary

Paid hire of Servants Bed &c.

Paid Montaigne in advance for Family
Expences ......

Paid do. in full of Family Expences f'm 8
June to ist Jvily ....

Paid do. for Postage 8 Jtme to ist July

Paid do. Familv Expences from

ist July to ist Aug. . . /.2,346 5

Deduct Expences for anniver-
sary 4 July ch'd to Congress . 600 7

Paid do. Postage &c. i Jiily to i Aug.
Paid Boisin for 29. Cord of Wood

B. F. half
J. A. do.

^•.S.370

5.370
440
360
0
6
0
0
13
0

1,200
0
10
105
0
0
159
0
0
2,246
0
16
78
0
0
737
0
II
1. 745
0
14
1,161
0

/.io,74i 2

356 The Works of [1778

NO. 7

Account of Cash paid out of private Purse on public Account
and for other Persons who are to acco't with the Public by
B. Franklin

1776. i- ^- <:■

Dec. 7. Paid M. Wilt an Express to Paris to an-
nounce my arrival .... 600 o o

1777.
Jan. 12. Paid to M. Williams on public Account for
which he has given the public Credit.
(See his Acct. Currt.), . . . 480 o o

Feb. 8. Paid Potter an American Prisoner escaped

from Eng'd . . . . . 120 o o

II. Paid for Affairs d'Angleterre . . . 36 o o

II. Paid to Coin Lutterloh a german officer . 480 o o

Mar. 31. Paid to M. Hood of Phila. to help him

home . . . . . - . 720 o o

April 29. Paid Major Klein going into the American

Service ...... 240 o o

May I. Paid Pancoucke for Books of Cavalry for

Congress 3^5 o °

8. Paid Forrester for the Accoutrement of

Troupes 69 o o

27. Paid Jona. Williams on public acco't for

which he has given the public Credit.

(See his acct. Currt.) .... 480 o o

June 5. Paid James Shanley, who came with a

Message from some Friends of America

in Ireland 120 o o

Paid M. Douglas a mate of a Vessel from
Philadelphia who had been taken
Prisoner ...... 48 o o

July 30. Paid for a Courier to St. Malo and back to

Paris 363 o o

Paid Schimman a german Officer to help
him on to a Seaport to serve in Am.
service ...... 48 o o

Aug. 22. Paid 2 Louis to 2 Sailors who escaped from

Prison 48 o o

25. Paid for a Harness for S. Deane . . 204 o o
Sep. 3. Paid Boussi wine Merchant for S. Deane . 493 o o
Paid J. Williams on public acco't for which
he has given the public Credit. (See his
acct. Currt.) . . • . • . • 480 o o
17. Paid for M. Dorscey Surgeon to his Tailor . 192 o o
Oct. 14. Paid Subscription for Affairs d'Angleterre . 24 o o
Dec. 27. Paid Bill drawn on me by Ebenez. Smith
Piatt a poor American Prisoner in New-
gate 480 o o

1778.
Jan. 30. Paid Count d'Attems, who had been taken

going to America to serve in the Army . 84 o o

Feb. 6. Paid Courtney Melmoth a Political Writer 932 00

1778]

Benjamin Franklin
Mar. 26.
May I.

June 23.

July 21.

Aug.

Paid Major Persons and took his Bill on
Nesbitt

Paid le Blane an officer who made large De-
mands on Comm'r in order to get rid of
him .....

Paid more to Courtney Melmoth

Given to a Stranger a Man of Letters who
asked Assistance .

At the Bath ^ ...

Capt. CoUas 5 Louis

Paid to Petter CoUas, a Prisoner

To Courier from Vers

Dinner there for M. Adams and self

Paid Petter CoUas .

Paid Joiner ....

At the Parish Charity Sermon

Paid to DaroUes, Engeneer

Paid M. Mante Ch'y

French lieut. and Doctor who had been
Prisoners .....

An American Prisoner from Danvers

Two French Sailors who had been in our
service and taken prisoners but escaped
very naked

Another

Yovmg a Surgeon of Boston

Another, a Surgeon

De Baiune
24
3
0
0
96
0
0
24
0
0
42
0
0
48
0
0
120
0
r
0

i
0
12
0
0
24
0
0
Passy, October 4, 1778.

/.9,273 2 o

NO. 8

Acco't of Cash received By B. Franklin out of Monies drawn
front Banker by Franklin & Deane extracted from Ex-
pence Book

777-

To Cash recv'd ....

To do. do. to pay W. T. F.'s Tailor
To do. do. ....

To do. do. ....

July

Sept. 29.
Oct. 6.
Deer. 29.
1778.
J_any. 27.
Feb. 2.
6.
April 4.

To do. do. to pay Tailor for W. T. F

To do. do. ....

To do. do. 88 Louis

To do. to pay W. T. F. Fencing Master

To do. to pay M. Vaughan

/.

5.

c.
0
367
0
0
480
0
0
396
0

2,082
0
0
480
0

/.4,865 10 o
Note. — There is an Error in the Act. of the C. Feb., '78, in Putting the 88 Louis as
2,082 Livres instead of 2,1 12 Livres, which makes the sum 30 Livres less than it ought
to be.

Passy, October 4, 1778.

I "Error" is written opposite this entry in red ink.
The Works of

[1778

NO. 9

AccoH of Cash received by B. Franklin out of Monies drawn
from Banker By Franklin & Adams extracted from Ex-
Book

April 23.
May 4.

June

I. s.

c.

To Cash to pay B. F. Baches's Schooling

451 18
To do. rec'vd ....

72 0
To do. to pay Sadler

ir 10
To do. rec'd ....

288 0
To do. do. ....

1,800 0
Passy, October 4, 1778.

/.2,623 8

Account of Cash drawn by Franklin & Deane out of Bankers
Hands for Expences and Public Uses
Jan. 2
Feb.
Aug. I

Sept.

Nov.

To Cash paid by Solier per Receipt . . 2,400

Do. do 4,801

Do. paid by Grand per their order to Chau-

mont for hire of Coach & Horses . 2,448

Do. p'd Comm. Acc't per Order of S. Deane 4,000
Do. paid by Grand to W. T. Franklin per

order

Do. paid by do. per Receipt
400

Deer. 29.

1778.

Feb. 6. Do. paid by Grand per Receipt . . 4,800

Mar. 25 Do. paid by Do 4,800

Paid out of the above to
sundry Persons per acco't
annexed in which what S.
Deane has received is in-
cluded

Paid to B. F. and already
credited in his acc't

/.6,6o6

4,865 10 o

/.33, 649 16

[,471 17 8

B. F. half
S. D. half

Passy, October 4, 1778.

l.ii,o&& 19
11,088 19

1.22,177

1778]

Benjamin Franklin
ANNEXED TO NO. lO

AccoH of Cash paid out of Franklin's and Deane's Money on
public Account or to persons who are to account with the
Public

Jan

1777.
21.
28.

Feb.

25-

Deer. 7.

27.

31-

1778.
Jan. 17.

Mar. 25.
April 6.

Paid Silas Deane for an Express to Nantes

To Capt. Nicholson

M. Deane's Coflfee House Bill .

To M. Lee to pay for silk stockings

To M. Deane

To M. Deane

M. Duportal for Instruments pur-
chased to carry to America .

M. Parker by order of B. Franklin to
help M. Hall an American from
England . . . . .

To M. Israel Potter and Edw'd Grif-
fith to bear their Expences to
Nantes being two Prisoners .

6th Bark for M. A. Lee

For Silver Goblet & spoon for M.
Leedwell Lee ....

Carriage of Muskets

For 2 Tin Cases to send the plan of
Boux's Vessels to America .

Miss Chaiomont for oats & Hay
for M. Deane's Horses .

I. Dtmierick who went afterwards by
the name of Thornton by Order of
the Comm'rs ....

Paid Wm. Carmichael for his Journey

to Nantes

W. T. Franklin by Order of Comm's
to discharge his Account of Ad-
vances for them

a French Sailor who escaped from

Prison .....
M. Kendall a distressed American
Major .....
M. Deane's Coachman

/.

5.

c.

s 150
0
0
9
0
0
1,200
0
0
366
48
0 0
14 8

1,200

0 0
0 0
0
240
0
0
324
0

Passy, October 4. 1778.

/.6,6o6

36o The Works of [1778

jy^ The Hon'ble the Congress of the United

Oct^^ A 1 To ray Salary as one of the Commis-

^' sioners of the United States at the

Court of France from Oct. 4, 1776.
is 2 years at 11,428 Livres per an-
num, as per Resolve of Congress 6.
Augt., 1779 .... 22,856 6 o

" 2 To my Expenses paid out of private

Purse from the Time of my Ap-
pointment to this Day agreeable to
the Account hereto annexed, N. 2.
allowed by the above mentioned
Resolve of Congress . . . 12,777 9 2

«« ^ To my Expences paid out of Money

drawn from Banquer By Franklin
& Deane, as per acco't N. 3., Ex-
tracted from joint expence Book 2,128 8 o

« 4 To my Expences paid out of money

drawn from Banker by Franklin &
Adams, as per acco't annexed N. 4.
Extracted from joint expences
Book . . . • • 1.720 12 o

" 5 To my half of joint Expences with M.

Dean paid out of monies drawn
from Banker by F. & D. as per ac-
count annexed N. 5. extracted
from joint Expence Book . . 9.569 10 9

" 6 To my half of joint Expences with M.

Adams, paid out of money drawn
from Banker by F. & A. as per
acco't annexed N. 6, extracted
from joint Expences Book . 5.37° " °

" J To amount of Disbursements out of

private Purse on public Account
and advances to persons who are to
account to PubUc for the same, as
per account hereto Annexed N. 7. 9.273 2 o

/.63,69s 18 II
Passy, October 4, 1778.
Errors Excepted.

1778] Benjamin Franklin 361

States in Acco't with B. Franklin. Cr.

1776. /. 5. C.
Dec. 7. By Cash received of Gruel at Nantes,

and accotinted for with Solier
Banker. (See f or this Solier 'sAcct.) 1,604 8 o
15. By ditto received of do. . . 2,400 12 o

20. By ditto rece'd of do. per my order in

1777. fav'r Hill ..... 900 4 o
Jan. 20. By ditto recvd. of do. with Messrs.

Lee & Deane ^.7,201 16. which be-
ing divided I received . . 2,994 o o
30. By ditto recvd. of do. with Messrs.
Dean & Lee, 7.2,400 12. which be-
ing divided I received . . 800 4 o
Feb. 26. By ditto recvd. do. with M. Dean, be-
ing the Bala, of his Acco't, /. 12,858
8. of which I received . . 6,845 o °
May 27. By ditto recvd. of do. . . . 360 o o
July 7. By ditto recvd. of do. . . . 2,400 o o
27. By ditto recvd. of do. per my order in

fav'r Hill ..... 293 15 o

Aug. 7. By ditto recvd. of Grand . . 4,800 o o

1778.
May. 9. By ditto recvd. of do. per my order in

fav'r Hill . . . . . 1,918110

Augt. 27. By ditto recvd. of do. . . . 500 o o

No.
Oct. 4. 8 By ditto received at Sundry Times

out of the monies drawn from
Banker by Franklin & Deane,
agreeable to acct. annexed, N. 8.
(Error of 30 Livs. less in this acct). 4,865 10 o
" 9 By ditto recvd. at Sundry Times

from Monies drawn from Banker
By Franklin & Adams, as per acc't
annexed, No. 9 . . . . 2,623 ^ o

10 By ditto received from Banker
jointly with M. Deane, which is
equally divided after first deduct-
ing the Payments which have been
made out of said Monies for Public
acco't, or to Persons who are to
acco't to the Public agreable to
the accoimts annexed No. 10, B. F.
proportion is .... n,o88 9 4

** II By ditto recvd. from Banker jointly

with M. Adams, which is equally
divided after first deducting the
Payments which have been made
out of said monies for the Public,
or to persons who are to acco't
with the Public as per acct. an-
nexed N. II . . . . 7,634 2 6

52,028 4 10
Balance due 11,667 i4 i

/.63,69s 18 n

362 The Works of [1778

Accotint of Cash drawn by Franklin & Adams out of Banker's
Hands for Expences and Public Uses

I. s. c.

To Cash paid per Receipt by Grand 4,800 o o

do. paid by do. per .... 4,800 o o

do. paid by do. to Gammon Wine merchant

per order F. ..... 2,418 o o

do. paid by do. per Receipt . . . 4,800 o o

do. paid by do. per do. .... 4,800 o o

1778.

April 9.
May 9.
May 26.

Jtrne
Aug.

16.

7-

21,618 o

Paid out of the above
to sundry Persons per
acco't annexed in
which what Adams
has received is in-

eluded
Paid to B. F.
credited in ]

B. F. half
J. A. half
October 4, 1778.

& already
bis acco't .

. . l.^

■ 7

^■3.726
2,623
8
0

6,349
,634 2
,634 2
0

Passy,

I.

15,268
0

ANNEXED TO NO. II

Acco't of Cash paid out of Franklin & Adams Money on pub-
lic Account or to Persons who are to account with the Public

1778. I. s. c.

April 9. Paid Jno. Farland to bear his Expences to

Bord'n . . . . . 120 o o

James Bamett Do. . . /.120
Do. Tailors Bill 126

10. Bringing M. Adams Things from Paris

Wheelwright Work done for M.Deane
22. M. Adams for Buckles 54 & Cash 480

24. to John Chandler to bear his Ex-

pences to Bord'n
May 1. For hire of Horses for M. Deane

Hill Tailor for Do. ...

4. To John Adams ....

7. Blondin for M. Deane's Acc't the Bal.

due for Service ....

Blondin 's Brother for Do. likewise a

servant .....

M. Deane's Sadler

M. Holker's Acco't of Carriage of G.

Montymont . . . . 184 11
0
12
534
180
120
278
0
414

I
6
0

1778] Benjamin Franklin 363

June 15.

A Poor German Sailor
0
Subscription for Courier de 1' Europe
La veuve Soubrillard Traiteur for M.
0
J^y 13-

Deane
II
Blacksmith for Acc't Do.
10
Aug. 8.

Expence of Aniversary of 4. July-
7
/.3,726
0

Passy,

October 4, 1778.

DCCXXV

THE ephemera: AN EMBLEM OF HUMAN LIFE

TO MADAME BRILLON, OF PASSY

You may remember, my dear friend, that when
we lately spent that happy day in the delightfiil
garden and sweet society of the Moulin Joly, I stop-
ped a little in one of our walks, and stayed some time
behind the company. We had been shown number-
less skeletons of a kind of little fly, called an ephem-
era, whose successive generations, we were told, were
bred and expired within the day. I happened to see
a living company of them on a leaf, who appeared
to be engaged in conversation. You know I under-
stand all the inferior animal tongues. My too great
application to the study of them is the best excuse
I can give for the little progress I have made in your
charming language. I listened through curiosity to
the discourse of these little creatures ; but as they, in
their national vivacity, spoke three or four together,
I could make but little of their conversation. I
found, however, by some broken expressions that
I heard now and then, they were disputing warmly
on the merit of two foreign musicians, one a cousin,
the other a moscheto; in which dispute they spent

364 The Works of [1778

their time, seemingly as regardless of the shortness
of life as if they had been sure of Hving a month.
Happy people ! thought I ; you are certainly tmder a
wise, just, and mild government, since you have no
public grievances to complain of, nor any subject
of contention but the perfections and imperfections
of foreign music. I turned my head from them to
an old gray-headed one, who was single on another
leaf, and talking to himself. Being amused with
his soliloquy, I put it down in writing, in hopes it
will likewise amuse her to whom I am so much in-
debted for the most pleasing of all amusements,
her delicious company and heavenly harmony.

*• It was," said he, " the opinion of learned philo-
sophers of our race, who lived and flourished long
before my time, that this vast world, the Moulin
Joly, could not itself subsist more than eighteen
hours; and I think there was some foundation for
that opinion, since, by the apparent motion of the
great luminary that gives life to all nature, and
which in my time has evidently declined consider-
ably towards the ocean at the end of our earth, it
must then finish its course, be extinguished in the
waters that surround us, and leave the world in cold
and darkness, necessarily producing universal death
and destruction. I have Hved seven of those hours,
a great age, being no less than four hundred and
twenty minutes of time. How very few of us con-
tinue so long! I have seen generations bom, flour-
ish, and expire. My present friends are the children
and grandchildren of the friends of my youth, who
are now, alas, no more! And I must soon follow

1778] Benjamin Franklin 3^5

them; for, by the course of nature, though still in
health, I cannot expect to live above seven or eight
minutes longer. What now avails all my toil and
labor in amassing honey-dew on this leaf, which I
cannot Uve to enjoy! What the political struggles
I have been engaged in for the good of my com-
patriot inhabitants of this bush, or my philosophical
studies for the benefit of our race in general! for in
politics what can laws do without morals? Our
present race of ephemerae will in a course of minutes
become corrupt, like those of other and older bushes,
and consequently as wretched. And in philosophy
how small our progress ! Alas ! art is long, and life
is short! My friends would comfort me with the
idea of a name they say I shall leave behind me;
and they tell me I have lived long enough to nature
and to glory. But what will fame be to an ephemera
who no longer exists? And what will become of all
history in the eighteenth hour, when the world it-
self, even the whole Moulin Joly, shall come to its
end and be buried in universal ruin ? ' '

To me, after all my eager pursuits, no solid pleas-
ures now remain, but the reflection of a long life
spent in meaning well, the sensible conversation of
a few good lady ephemerae, and now and then a kind
smile and a tune from the ever amiable Brillante.'^

B. Franklin.

I The substance of these reflections of the venerable Ephemera
appeared in The Pennsylvania Gazette, of which Franklin was then
editor and publisher, December 4, 1735, in an essay "On Human
Vanity." In its original form the article purports to be a communica-
tion from some other person. In the above letter to "the ever ami-
able Brillante," it was doubtless re- written from memory, and was
much improved both as to diction and sentiment.

366 The Works of [1779

DCCXXVI

THE WHISTLE

TO MADAME BRILLON

1779.

I received my dear friend's two letters, one for
Wednesday and one for Saturday. This is again
Wednesday. I do not deserve one for to-day, be-
cause I have not answered the former. But, indolent
as I am, and averse to writing, the fear of having no
more of your pleasing epistles, if I do not contribute
to the correspondence, obliges me to take up my pen ;
and as Mr. B. has kindly sent me word that he sets
out to-morrow to see you, instead of spending this
Wednesday evening, as I have done its namesakes, in
your delightful company, I sit down to spend it in
thinking of you, in writing to you, and in reading
over and over again your letters.

I am charmed with your description of Paradise,
and with your plan of living there; and I approve
much of your conclusion, that, in the meantime, we
should draw all the good we can from this world.
In my opinion we might all draw more good from it
than we do, and suffer less evil, if we would take care
not to give too much for whistles. For to me it
seems that most of the unhappy people we meet with
are become so by neglect of that caution.

You ask what I mean ? You love stories, and will
excuse my telling one of myself.

When I was a child of seven years old, my friends,
on a holiday, filled my pocket with coppers. I went
directly to a shop where they sold toys for children ;
and being charmed with the sound of a whistle, that

1779] Benjamin Franklin 367

I met by the way in the hands of another boy, I
voluntarily offered and gave all my money for one.
I then came home, and went whistling all over the
house, much pleased with my whistle, but disturbing
all the family. My brothers, and sisters, and cousins,
understanding the bargain I had made, told me I had
given four times as much for it as it was worth ; put
me in mind what good things I might have bought
with the rest of the money; and laughed at me so
much for my folly, that I cried with vexation ; and
the reflection gave me more chagrin than the whistle
gave me pleasure.

This, however, was afterwards of use to me, the im-
pression continuing on my mind ; so that often, when
I was tempted to buy some unnecessary thing, I said
to myself. Don't give too much for the whistle; and I
saved my money.

As I grew up, came into the world, and observed
the actions of men, I thought I met with many, very
many, who gave too much for the whistle.

When I saw one too ambitious of court favor,
sacrificing his time in attendance on levees, his re-
pose, his liberty, his virtue, and perhaps his friends,
to attain it, I have said to myself. This man gives
too much for his whistle.

When I saw another fond of popularity, constantly
employing himself in political bustles, neglecting his
own affairs, and ruining them by that neglect, He
pays, indeed, said I, too much for his whistle.

If I knew a miser, who gave up every kind of com-
fortable living, all the pleasure of doing good to others,
all the esteem of his fellow-citizens, and the joys of

368 The Works of [1779

benevolent friendship, for the sake of accumulating
wealth, Poor man, said I, you pay too much for your
whistle.

When I met with a man of pleasure, sacrificing
every laudable improvement of the mind, or of his
fortune, to mere corporeal sensations, and ruining his
health in their pursuit. Mistaken man, said I, you are
providing pain for yourself, instead of pleasure; you
give too much for your whistle.

If I see one fond of appearance, or fine clothes, fine
houses, fine furniture, fine equipages, all above his
fortune, for which he contracts debts, and ends his
career in a prison, Alas! say I, he has paid dear, very
dear, for his whistle.

When I see a beautiful, sweet-tempered girl mar-
ried to an ill-natured brute of a husband. What a pity,
say I, that she should pay so much for a whistle!

In short, I conceive that great part of the miseries
of mankind are brought upon them by the false esti-
mates they have made of the value of things, and by
their giving too much for their whistles.

Yet I ought to have charity for these unhappy
people, when I consider that, with all this wisdom of
which I am boasting, there are certain things in the
world so tempting, for example, the apples of King
John, which happily are not to be bought ; for if they
were put to sale by auction, I might very easily be
led to ruin myself in the purchase, and find that I
had once more given too much for the whistle.

Adieu, my dear friend, and believe me ever yours
very sincerely and with unalterable affection,

B. Franklin.

1779] Benjamin Franklin 369

DCCXXVII

A PETITION OF THE LEFT HAND

TO THOSE WHO HAVE THE SUPERINTENDENCY OP EDUCATION

I address myself to all the friends of youth, and
conjure them to direct their compassionate regards to
my unhappy fate, in order to remove the prejudices
of which I am the victim. There are twin sisters of
us; and the two eyes of man do not more resemble,
nor are capable of being upon better terms with, each
other, than my sister and myself, were it not for the
partiality of our parents, who make the most injurious
distinctions between us. From my infancy, I have
been led to consider my sister as a being of a more
elevated rank. I was suffered to grow up without the
least instruction, while nothing was spared in her
education. She had masters to teach her writing,
drawing, music, and other accomplishments; but if
by chance I touched a pencil, a pen, or a needle, I was
bitterly rebuked; and more than once I have been
beaten for being awkward, and wanting a graceful
manner. It is true, my sister associated me with her
upon some occasions; but she always made a point
of taking the lead, calling upon me only from neces-
sity, or to figure by her side.

But conceive not, sirs, that my complaints are in-
stigated merely by vanity. No; my uneasiness is
occasioned by an object much more serious. It is
the practice in our family that the whole business of
providing for its subsistence falls upon my sister and
myself. If any indisposition should attack my sister,
— and I mention it in confidence upon this occasion,

VOL. VII. — 24.
The Works of [1779

that she is subject to the gout, the rheumatism, and
cramp, without making mention of other accidents, —
what would be the fate of our poor family? Must
not the regret of our parents be excessive, at having
placed so great a difference between sisters who are
so perfectly equal ? Alas ! we must perish from dis-
tress ; for it would not be in my power even to scrawl
a suppliant petition for relief, having been obliged to
employ the hand of another in transcribing the re-
quest which I have now the honor to prefer to you.

Condescend, sirs, to make my parents sensible of
the injustice of an exclusive tenderness, and of the
necessity of distributing their care and affection
among all their children equally. I am, with a pro-
foimd respect, sirs, your obedient servant,

The Left Hand.

DCCXXVIII

SKETCH OF AN ENGLISH SCHOOL

FOR THE CONSIDERATION OF THE TRUSTEES OF THE PHILADELPHIA
ACADEMY

It is expected that every scholar to be admitted
into this school be at least able to pronounce and
divide the syllables in reading, and to write a legible
hand. None to be received that are under years

of age.

First or Lowest Class

Let the first class learn the English Grammar rules,
and at the same time let particular care be taken to
improve them in orthography. Perhaps the latter
is best done by pairing the scholars; two of those

1779] Benjamin Franklin 37i

nearest equal in their spelling to be put together.
Let these strive for victory; each propounding ten
words every day to the other to be spelled. He
that spells truly most of the other's words is victor
for that day; he that is victor most days in a month,
to obtain a prize, a pretty, neat book of some kind,
useful in their future studies. This method fixes the
attention of children extremely to the orthography
of words, and makes them good spellers very early.
It is a shame for a man to be so ignorant of this little
art in his own language as to be perpetually con-
founding words of like sound and different significa-
tions ; the consciousness of which defect makes some
men, otherwise of good learning and understanding,
averse to writing even a common letter.

Let the pieces read by the scholars in this class be
short; such as Croxall's Fables, and little stories.
In giving the lesson, let it be read to them; let the
meaning of the difficult words in it be explained to
them; and let them con over by themselves before
they are called to read to the master or usher, who is
to take particular care that they do not read too fast,
and that they duly observe the stops and pauses. A
vocabulary of the most useful difficult words might
be formed for their use, with explanations ; and they
might daily get a few of those words and explanations
by heart, which would a little exercise their mem-
ories ; or at least they might write a number of them
in a small book for the purpose, which would help to
fix the meaning of those words in their minds, and at
the same time furnish every one with a little diction-
ary for his future use.

372 The Works of [1779

The Second Class

To be taught reading with attention, and with
proper modulations of the voice, according to the
sentiment and the subject.

Some short pieces, not exceeding the length of a
Spectator, to be given this class for lessons (and
some of the easier Spectator would be very suitable
for the purpose). These lessons might be given
every night as tasks, the scholars to study them
against the morning. Let it then be required of
them to give an account, first, of the parts of speech,
and construction of one or two sentences. This will
oblige them to recur frequently to their grammar,
and fix its principle rules in their memory. Next, of
the intention of the writer, or the scope of the piece,
the meaning of each sentence and of every uncom-
mon word . This would early acquaint them with the
meaning and force of words, and give them that
most necessary habit of reading with attention.

The master then to read the piece with the proper
modulations of voice, due emphasis, and suitable ac-
tion, where action is required ; and put the youth on
imitating his manner.

Where the author has used an expression not the
best, let it be pointed out, and let his beauties be
particularly remarked to the youth.

Let the lessons for reading be varied, that the
youth may be made acquainted with good styles of
all kinds, in prose and verse, and the proper manner
of reading each kind; sometimes a well-told story,
a piece of a sermon, a general's speech to his soldiers,

1779] Benjamin Franklin 373

a speech in a tragedy, some part of a comedy, an ode,
a satire, a letter, blank verse, Hudibrastic, heroic,
etc. But let such lessons be chosen for reading as
contain some useful instruction, whereby the under-
standing or morals of the youth may at the same
time be improved.

It is required that they should first study and
understand the lessons before they are put upon
reading them properly, to which end each boy should
have an English dictionary to help him over diffi-
culties. When our boys read English to us we are
apt to imagine they understand what they read, be-
cause we do, and because it is their mother tongue.
But they often read as parrots speak, knowing little
or nothing of the meaning. And it is impossible
a reader should give the due modulation to his voice
and pronounce properly, unless his understanding
goes before his tongue, and makes him master of the
sentiment. Accustoming boys to read aloud what
they do not first understand, is the cause of those
even, set tones, so common among readers, which,
when they have once got the habit of using, they
find so difficult to correct; by which means, among
fifty readers we scarcely find a good one. For want
of good reading, pieces published with a view to in-
fluence the minds of men, for their own or the public
benefit, lose half their force. Were there but one
good reader in a neighborhood, a pubHc orator might
be heard throughout a nation with the same advan-
tages, and have the same effect upon his audience,
as if they stood within the reach of his voice.

374 The Works of [1779

The Third Class

To be taught speaking properly and gracefully,
which is near akin to good reading, and naturally fol-
lows it in the studies of youth. Let the scholars of
this class begin with learning the elements of rhetoric
from some short system, so as to be able to give an
account of the most useful tropes and figures. Let
all their bad habits of speaking, all offences against
good grammar, all corrupt or foreign accents, and all
improper phrases, be pointed out to them. Short
speeches from the Roman, or other history, or from
the parliamentary debates, might be got by heart,
and delivered with the proper action, etc. Speeches
and scenes in our best tragedies and comedies (avoid-
ing every thing that could injure the morals of
youth) might Hkewise be got by rote, and the boys
exercised in dehvering or acting them, great care
being taken to form their manner after the truest
models.

For their further improvement, and a Httle to vary
their studies, let them now begin to read history,
after having got by heart a short table of the princi-
pal epochas in chronology. They may begin with
Rollin's Ancient and Roman histories, and proceed
at proper hours, as they go through the subsequent
classes, with the best histories of our own nation and
colonies. Let emulation be excited among the boys
by giving, weekly, little prizes, or other small encour-
agements, to those who are able to give the best ac-
count of what they have read, as to time, places,
names of persons, etc. This will make them read

1779] Benjamin Franklin 375

with attention, and imprint the history well in their
memories. In remarking on the history, the master
will have fine opportunities of instilling instruction of
various kinds, and improving the morals as well as
the understandings of youth.

The natural and mechanic history, contained in
the Spectacle de la Nature, might also be begun in
in this class, and continued through the subsequent
classes, by other books of the same kind; for, next
to the knowledge of duty, this kind of knowledge
is certainly the most useful, as well as the most en-
tertaining. The merchant may thereby be enabled
better to understand many commodities in trade;
the handicraftsman to improve his business by
new instruments, mixtures, and materials; and fre-
quently^ hints are given for new manufactures, or
new methods of improving land, that may be set on
foot greatly to the advantage of a country.

The Fourth Class

To be taught composition. Writing one's own
language well is the next necessary accomplishment
after good speaking. It is the writing-master's busi-
ness to take care that the boys make fair characters,
and place them straight and even on the lines; but
to form their style, and even to take care that the
stops and capitals are properly disposed, is the part
of the English master. The boys should be put on
writing letters to each other on any common occur-
rences, and on various subjects, imaginary business,
etc., containing little stories, accounts of their late

376 The Works of [1779

reading, what parts of authors please them, and why ;
letters of congratulation, of compliment, of request,
of thanks, of recommendation, of admonition, of
consolation, of expostulation, excuse, etc. In these
they should be taught to express themselves clearly,
concisely, and naturally, without affected words or
high-flown phrases. All their letters to pass through
the master's hand, who is to point out the faults, ad-
vise the corrections, and commend what he finds
right. Some of the best letters published in our
own language, as Sir William Temple's, those of
Pope and his friends, and some others, might be set
before the youth as models, their beauties pointed
out and explained by the master, the letters them-
selves transcribed by the scholar.

Dr. Johnson's Ethices Elementa, or First Princi-
ples of Morality, may now be read by the scholars,
and explained by the master, to lay a solid founda-
tion of virtue and piety in their minds. And as this
class continues the reading of history, let them now,
at proper hours, receive some further instruction in
chronology, and in that part of geography (from the
mathematical master) which is necessary to under-
stand the maps and globes. They should also be
acquainted with the modem names of the places they
find mentioned in ancient writers. The exercises of
good reading, and proper speaking, still continued at
suitable times.

Fifth Class

To improve the youth in composition, they may
now, besides continuing to write letters, begin to

1779] Benjamin Franklin 377

write little essays in prose, and sometimes in verse;
not to make them poets, but for this reason, that
nothing acquaints a lad so speedily with variety of
expression as the necessity of finding such words and
phrases as will suit the measure, sound, and rhyme
of verse, and at the same time well express the senti-
ment. These essays should all pass under the mas-
ter's eye, who will point out their faults, and put the
writer on correcting them. Where the judgment is
not ripe enough for forming new essays, let the sen-
timents of a Spectator be given, and required to be
clothed in the scholar's own words; or the circum-
stances of some good story, the scholar to find ex-
pression. Let them be put sometimes on abridging
a paragraph of a diffuse author ; sometimes on dilat-
ing or amplifying what is written more closely. And
now let Dr. Johnson's Noetica, or First Principles
of Human Knowledge, containing a logic, or art of
reasoning, etc., be read by the youth, and the diffi-
culties that may occur to them be explained by the
master. The reading of history, and the exercises
of good reading and just speaking, still continued.

Sixth Class

In this class, besides continuing the studies of the
preceding in history, rhetoric, logic, moral and nat-
ural philosophy, the best English authors may be
read and explained; as Tillotson, Milton, Locke,
Addison, Pope, Swift, the higher papers in the Spec-
tator and Guardian, the best translations of Homer,
Virgil, and Horace, of Telemachus, Travels of Cyrus,
etc.

378 The Works of [1779

Once a year let there be public exercises in the hall,
the trustees and citizens present. Then let fine gilt
books be given as prizes to such boys as distinguish
themselves and excel the others in any branch of
learning, making three degrees of comparison ; giving
the best prize to him that performs best, a less valu-
able one to him that comes up next to the best, and
another to the third; commendations, encourage-
ment, and advice to the rest ; keeping up their hopes,
that by industry they may excel another time. The
names of those that obtain the prize to be yearly
printed in a list.

The hours of each day are to be divided and dis-
posed in such a manner as that some classes may be
with the writing-master, improving their hands;
others with the mathematical master, learning arith-
metic, accounts, geography, use of the globes, draw-
ing, mechanics, etc.; while the rest are in the
English school, under the English master's care.

Thus instructed, youth will come out of this school
fitted for learning any business, calling, or profession,
except such wherein languages are required; and
though unacquainted with any ancient or foreign
tongue, they will be masters of their own, which is
of more immediate and general use, and withal will
have attained many other valuable accomplishments ;
the time usually spent in acquiring those languages,
often without success, being here employed in laying
such a foundation of knowledge and ability as, prop-
erly improved, may qualify them to pass through
and execute the several offices of civil life with ad-
vantage and reputation to themselves and country.

1779] Benjamin Franklin 379

DCCXXIX

THE HANDSOME AND DEFORMED LEG

There are two sorts of people in the world, who,
with equal degrees of health and wealth, and the
other comforts of life, become, the one happy, and
the other miserable. This arises very much from
the different views in which they consider things,
persons, and events; and the effect of those different
views upon their own minds.

In whatever situation men can be placed, they
may find conveniences and inconveniences ; in what-
ever company, they may find persons and conversa-
tions more or less pleasing; at whatever table, they
may meet with meats and drinks of better and worse
taste, dishes better and worse dressed; in whatever
climate, they will find good and bad weather; under
whatever government, they may find good and bad
laws, and good and bad administration of those laws;
in whatever poem, or work of genius, they may see
faults and beauties ; in almost every face, and every
person, they may discover fine features and defects,
good and bad qualities.

Under these circumstances, the two sorts of people
above mentioned fix their attention : those who are
disposed to be happy, on the conveniences of things,
the pleasant parts of conversation, the well-dressed
dishes, the goodness of the wines, the fine weather,
etc., and enjoy all with cheerfulness. Those who are
to be unhappy, think and speak only of the con-
traries. Hence they are continually discontented
with themselves, and, by their remarks, sour the

380 The Works of [1779

pleasures of society, offend personally many people,
and make themselves everywhere disagreeable. If
this turn of mind was founded in nature, such un-
happy persons would be the more to be pitied. But
as the disposition to criticise and to be disgusted is
perhaps taken up originally by imitation, and is
unawares grown into a habit which, though at pres-
ent strong, may, nevertheless, be cured, when those
who have it are convinced of its bad effects on their
felicity, I hope this little admonition may be of ser-
vice to them, and put them on changing a habit
which, though in the exercise it is chiefly an act of
imagination, yet has serious consequences in life, as
it brings on real griefs and misfortunes. For, as
many are offended by, and nobody loves, this sort
of people, no one shows them more than the most
common civility and respect, and scarcely that;
and this frequently puts them out of humor, and
draws them into disputes and contentions. If they
aim at obtaining some advantage in rank or fortune,
nobody wishes them success, or will stir a step, or
speak a word, to favor their pretensions. If they
incur public censure or disgrace, no one will defend
or excuse, and many join to aggravate, their mis-
conduct and render them completely odious. If
these people will not change this bad habit, and con-
descend to be pleased with what is pleasing, without
fretting themselves and others about the contraries,
it is good for others to avoid an acquaintance with
them ; which is always disagreeable, and sometimes
very inconvenient, especially when one finds one's
self entangled in their quarrels.

1779] Benjamin Franklin 381

An old philosophical friend of mine was grown,
from experience, very cautious in this particular, and
carefully avoided any intimacy with such people. He
had, like other philosophers, a thermometer to show
him the heat of the weather, and a barometer to
mark when it was likely to prove good or bad ; but
there being no instrument invented to discover, at
first sight, this unpleasing disposition in a person, he
for that purpose made use of his legs, one of which
was remarkably handsome, the other, by some ac-
cident, crooked and deformed. If a stranger, at the
first interview, regarded his ugly leg more than his
handsome one, he doubted him. If he spoke of it,
and took no notice of the handsome leg, that was
sufficient to determine my philosopher to have no
further acquaintance with him. Everybody has not
this two-legged instrument; but every one, with a
little attention, may observe signs of that carping,
fault-finding disposition, and take the same resolu-
tion of avoiding the acquaintance of those affected
with it. I therefore advise those critical, querulous,
discontented, unhappy people, that, if they wish to
be respected and beloved by others, and happy in
themselves, they should leave off looking at the ugly

DCCXXX

MORALS OF CHESS

Playing at chess is the most ancient and most
universal game known among men ; for its original is

382 The Works of [1779

beyond the memory of history, and it has, for num-
berless ages, been the amusement of all the civilized
nations of Asia — the Persians, the Indians, and the
Chinese. Europe has had it above a thousand years ;
the Spaniards have spread it over their part of Amer-
ica ; and it has lately begun to make its appearance
in the United States. It is so interesting in itself as
not to need the view of gain to induce engaging in it,
and thence it is seldom played for money. Those,
therefore, who have leisure for such diversions, can-
not find one that is more innocent ; and the following
piece, written with a view to correct (among a few
young friends) some little improprieties in the prac-
tice of it, shows at the same time that it may, in its
effects on the mind, be not merely innocent, but ad-
vantageous, to the vanquished as well as the victor.

The game of chess is not merely an idle amuse-
ment. Several very valuable qualities of the mind,
useful in the course of human life, are to be acquired
or strengthened by it, so as to become habits, ready
on all occasions. For life is a kind of chess, in which
we have often points to gain, and competitors or ad-
versaries to contend with, and in which there is a
vast variety of good and evil events that are in some
degree the effects of prudence or the want of it. By
playing at chess, then, we may learn:

I. Foresight, which looks a little into futurity and
considers the consequences that may attend an ac-
tion; for it is continually occurring to the player:
"If I move this piece, what will be the advantage
of my new situation? What use can my adversary
make of it to annoy me. What other moves can I

1779] Benjamin Franklin 383

make to support it and to defend myself from his
attacks?"

II. Circumspection, which surveys the whole chess-
board, or scene of action; the relations of the several
pieces and situations, the dangers they are respec-
tively exposed to, the several possibilities of their aid-
ing each other, the probabilities that the adversary
may make this or that move, and attack this or the
other piece, and what different means can be used
to avoid his stroke, or turn its consequences against
him.

III. Caution, not to make our moves too hastily.
This habit is best acquired by observing strictly the
laws of the game, such as, " If you touch a piece,
you must move it somewhere ; if you set it down, you
must let it stand ' ' ; and it is therefore best that these
rules should be observed, as the game thereby be-
comes more the image of human life, and particularly
of war, in which, if you have incautiously put your-
self into a bad and dangerous position, you cannot
obtain your enemy's leave to withdraw your troops
and place them more securely, but you must abide
all the consequences of your rashness.

And, lastly, we learn by chess the habit of not
being discouraged by present appearances in the state
of our affairs, the habit of hoping for a favorable
change, and that of persevering in the search of re-
sources. The game is so full of events, there is such a
variety of turns in it, the fortune of it is so subject to
sudden vicissitudes, and one so frequently, after long
contemplation, discovers the means of extricating
one's self from a supposed insurmountable difficulty,

384 The Works of [1779

that one is encouraged to continue the contest to the
last in the hopes of victory by our own skill, or at
least of getting a stalemate by the negligence of our
adversary. And whoever considers, what in chess
he often sees instances of, that particular pieces of
success are apt to produce presumption and its con-
sequent inattention, by which the losses may be re-
covered, will learn not to be too much discouraged by
the present success of his adversary, nor to despair of
final good fortune upon every little check he receives
in the pursuit of it.

That we may therefore be induced more frequently
to choose this beneficial amusement, in preference to
others which are not attended with the same advan-
tages, every circumstance which may increase the
pleasures of it should be regarded, and every action
or word that is unfair, disrespectful, or that in any
way may give uneasiness, should be avoided as con-
trary to the immediate intention of both the players,
which is to pass the time agreeably.

Therefore, first, if it is agreed to play according to
the strict rules, then those rules are to be exactly ob-
served by both parties, and should not be insisted on
for one side while deviated from by the other, for
this is not equitable.

Secondly, if it is agreed not to observe the rules
exactly, but one party demands indulgences, he
should then be as willing to allow them to the other.

Thirdly, no false move should ever be made to ex-
tricate yourself out of difficulty or to gain an advan-
tage. There can be no pleasure in playing with a
person once detected in such unfair practice.

1779] Benjamin Franklin 385

Fourthly, if your adversary is long in playing, you
ought not to hurry him or express any uneasiness at
his delay. You should not sing, nor whistle, nor
look at your watch, nor take up a book to read, nor
make a tapping with your feet on the floor, or with
your fingers on the table, nor do any thing that may
disturb his attention. For all these things displease,
and they do not show your skill in playing, but your
craftiness or your rudeness.

Fifthly, you ought not to endeavor to amuse and
deceive your adversary by pretending to have made
bad moves, and saying that you have now lost the
game, in order to make him secure and careless, and
inattentive to your schemes; for this is fraud and
deceit, not skill in the game.

Sixthly, you must not, when you have gained a
victory, use any triumphing or insulting expression,
nor show too much pleasure, but endeavor to con-
sole your adversary, and make him less dissatisfied
with himself by every kind of civil expression that
may be used with truth, such as: "You understand
the game better than I, but you are a little inatten-
tive"; or, "You play too fast"; or, "You had the
best of the game, but something happened to divert
your thoughts, and that turned it in my favor."

Seventhly, if you are a spectator while others play,
observe the most perfect silence. For, if you give
advice, you offend both parties: him against whom
you give it, because it may cause the loss of his game ;
him in whose favor you give it, because, though it be
good, and he follows it, he loses the pleasure he
might have had if you had permitted him to think

386 The Works of [1779

until it had occurred to himself. Even after a move
or moves, you must not, by replacing the pieces, show-
how they might have been placed better; for that
displeases, and may occasion disputes and doubts
about their true situation. All talking to the players
lessens or diverts their attention, and is therefore
unpleasing. Nor should you give the least hint to
either party by any kind of noise or motion. If you
do, you are unworthy to be a spectator. If you have
a mind to exercise or show your judgment, do it in
playing your own game when you have an opportu-
nity, not in criticising, or meddling with, or counsel-
ling the play of others.

Lastly, if the game is not to be played rigorously,
according to the rules above mentioned, then moder-
ate your desire of victory over your adversary, and be
pleased with one over yourself. Snatch not eagerly
at every advantage offered by his unskilfulness or in-
attention ; but point out to him kindly, that by such
a move he places or leaves a piece in danger and un-
supported; that by another he will put his king in
a perilous situation, etc. By this generous civility
(so opposite to the unfairness above forbidden)
you may, indeed, happen to lose the game to your
opponent; but you will win what is better, his es-
teem, his respect, and his affection, together with
the silent approbation and good-will of impartial
spectators.

1779] Benjamin Franklin 387

DCCXXXI

A TALE

An officer named Montr esor, a worthy man, was
very ill. The curate of his parish, thinking him like-
ly to die, advised him to make his peace with God,
that he might be received into Paradise. " I have
not much uneasiness on the subject," said Montr esor,
"for I had a vision last night which has perfectly
tranquillized my mind." "What vision have you
had?" said the good priest. "I was," replied Mon-
tr esor, " at the gate of Paradise, with a crowd of
people who wished to enter, and St. Peter inquired
of every one what religion he was of. One answered,
'I am a Roman Catholic' 'Well,' said St. Peter,
'enter, and take your place there among the Cath-
olics.' Another said he was of the Church of
England. 'Well,' said the Saint, 'enter, and place
yourself there among the Anglicans.' A third said
he was a Quaker. ' Enter,' said St. Peter, 'and take
your place among the Quakers. ' At length my term
being come, he asked me of what religion I was.
'Alas!' said I, 'poor Jacques Montresor has none.'
' 'T is pity,' said the Saint; 'I know not where to
place you; but enter nevertheless, and place yourself
where you can.' "

DCCXXXII

AN ARABIAN TALE

Albumazar, the good magician, retired in his old
age to the top of the lofty mountain Calabut, avoided

388 The Works of [1779

the society of men, but was visited nightly by genii
and spirits of the first rank, who loved him, and
amused him with their instructive conversation.

Belubel, the strong, came one evening to see Albu-
mazar. His height was seven leagues, and his wings
when spread might overshadow a kingdom. He laid
himself gently down between the long ridges of
Elluem; the tops of the trees in the valley were his
couch; his head rested on Calabut as on a pillow,
and his face shone on the tent of Albumazar.

The magician spoke to him with rapturous piety of
the wisdom and goodness of the Most High, but ex-
pressed his wonder at the existence of evil in the
world, which he said he could not account for by all
the efforts of his reason.

"Value not thyself, my friend," said Belubel, "on
that quality which thou callest reason. If thou
knewest its origin and its weakness, it would rather
be matter of humiliation."

"Tell me then," said Albumazar, "what I do
not know; inform my ignorance, and enlighten my
understanding. ' '

"Contemplate," said Belubel, "the scale of
beings from an elephant down to an oyster. Thou
seest a gradual diminution of faculties and powers,
so small in each step that the difference is scarce
perceptible. There is no gap, but the gradation
is complete. Men in general do not know, but
thou knowest, that in ascending from an elephant to
the infinitely Great, Good, and Wise, there is also a
long gradation of beings, who possess powers and
faculties of which thou canst yet have no conception. "

1779] Benjamin Franklin 389

DCCXXXIII

AURORA BOREALIS ^

1. Air heated by any means becomes rarefied and
specifically lighter than other air in the same situation
not heated.

2. Air being thus made lighter rises, and the neigh-
boring cooler, heavier air takes its place.

3. If in the middle of a room you heat the air by
a stove, or pot of burning coals near the floor, the
heated air will rise to the ceiling, spread there over
the cooler air till it comes to the cold walls; there
being condensed and made heavier, it descends to
supply the place of that cool air which had moved
towards the stove or fire, in order to supply the place
of the heated air which had ascended from the space
around the stove or fire.

4. Thus there will be a continual circulation of air
in the room, which may be rendered visible by mak-
ing a little smoke; for that smoke will rise and cir-
culate with the air.

5. A similar operation is performed by nature on
the air of the globe. Our atmosphere is of a certain

height, perhaps at a medium miles. Above that

height it is so rare as to be almost a vacuum. The
air heated between the tropics is continually rising,
and its place is suppHed by northerly and southerly
winds which come from those cool regions.

1 First published in Mr. Vaughan's edition of the author's writings.
Mr. Vaughan says: "If I mistake not, the paper was read at the
Royal Academy of Sciences at Paris, at the meeting held immediately
after Easter, 1779." — Editor.

390 The Works of [1779

6. The hght, heated air, floating above the cooler
and denser, must spread northward and southward,
and descend near the two poles, to supply the place
of the cooler air which had moved towards the
equator.

7. Thus a circulation of air is kept up in our at-
mosphere as in the room above mentioned.

8. That heavier and lighter air may move in cur-
rents of different and even opposite directions, ap-
pears sometimes by the clouds that happen to be in
these currents, as plainly as by the smoke in the ex-
periment above mentioned. Also in opening a door
between two chambers, one of which has been
warmed, by holding a candle near the top, near the
bottom, and near the middle, you will find a strong
current of warm air passing out of the warmed room
above, and another of cool air entering it below, while
in the middle there is little or no motion.

9. The great quantity of vapor rising between the
tropics forms clouds, which contain much electricity.

Some of them fall in rain, before they come to the
polar regions.

10. If the rain be received in an isolated vessel,
the vessel will be electrified; for every drop brings
down some electricity with it.

11. The same is done by snow and hail.

12. The electricity so descending in temperate
climates is received and imbibed by the earth.

13. If the clouds are not sufficiently discharged by
this means, they sometimes discharge themselves
suddenly by striking into the earth, where the earth
is fit to receive their electricity.

1779] Benjamin Franklin 391

14. The earth in temperate and warm cHmates is
generally fit to receive it, being a good conductor.

15. A certain quantity of heat will make some bodies
good conductors that will not otherwise conduct.

16. Thus wax rendered fluid, and glass softened
by heat, will both of them conduct.

17. And water, though naturally a good conductor,
will not conduct well when frozen into ice by a com-
mon degree of cold; not at all where the cold is
extreme.

18. Snow falling upon frozen ground has been
found to retain its electricity; and to communicate
it to an isolated body, when after falling it has been
driven about by the wind.

19. The humidity, contained in all the equatorial
clouds that reach the polar regions must there be
condensed and fall in snow.

20. The great cake of ice that eternally covers
those regions may be too hard frozen to permit the
electricity, descending with that snow, to enter the
earth.

21. It will therefore be accumulated upon that ice.

22. The atmosphere, being heavier in the polar re-
gions than in the equatorial, will there be lower ; as
well from that cause as from the smaller effect of the
centrifugal force; consequently the distance to the
vacuum above the atmosphere will be less at the poles
than elsewhere; and probably much less than the
distance (upon the surface of the globe) extending
from the pole to those latitudes in which the earth
is so thawed as to receive and imbibe electricity ; the
frost continuing to latitude 80, which is 10 degrees

392 The Works of [1779

or 600 miles from the pole, while the height of the
atmosphere there, of such density as to obstruct the
motion of the electric fluid, can scarce be estimated
above miles.

23. The vacuum above is a good conductor.

24. May not, then, the great quantity of electricity
brought into the polar regions by the clouds, which
are condensed there, and fall in snow, which elec-
tricity would enter the earth, but cannot penetrate
the ice; may it not, I say (as a bottle overcharged)
break through that low atmosphere and run along
in the vacuum over the air towards the equator, di-
verging as the degrees of longitude enlarge, strongly
visible where densest, and becoming less visible as it
more diverges; till it finds a passage to the earth in
more temperate climates, or is mingled with their
upper air ?

25. If such an operation of nature were really per-
formed, would it not give all the appearances of an

AURORA BOREALIS?

26. And would not the auroras become more fre-
quent after the approach of winter; not only because
more visible in the longer nights, but also because in
summer the long presence of the sun may soften the
surface of the great ice cake, and render it a con-
ductor, by which the accumulation of electricity in
the polar regions will be prevented ?

27. The atmosphere of the polar regions being made
more dense by the extreme cold, and all the moisture
in that air being frozen, may not any great light aris-
ing therein, and passing through it, render its density
in some degree visible during the night-time, to those

1779] Benjamin Franklin 393

who live in the rarer air of more southern latitudes ?
And would it not, in that case, although in itself a
complete and full circle, extending perhaps ten de-
grees from the pole, appear to spectators so placed
(who could see only a part of it) in the form of a seg-
ment, its chord resting on the horizon, and its arch
elevated more or less above it, as seen from latitudes
more or less distant, darkish in color, but yet suffi-
ciently transparent to permit some stars to be seen
through it?

28. The rays of electric matter issuing out of a
body, diverge by mutually repelling each other, un-
less there be some conducting body near to receive
them; and if that conducting body be at a greater
distance, they will first diverge, and then converge, in
order to enter it. May not this account for some of
the varieties of figure seen at times in the motions of
the luminous matter of the aurorae ; since it is possi-
ble that, in passing over the atmosphere from the
north, in all directions or meridians, towards the
equator, the rays of that matter may find in many
places portions of cloudy region, or moist atmosphere
under them, which (being in the natural or negative
state) may be fit to receive them, and towards which
they may therefore converge ; and when one of those
receiving bodies is more than saturated, they may
again diverge from it, towards other surrounding
masses of such humid atmosphere, and thus form the
crowns, as they are called, and other figures men-
tioned in the histories of this meteor ?

29. If it be true that the clouds which go to the
polar regions carry thither the vapors of the equa-
The Works of [1779

torial and temperate regions, which vapors are con-
densed by the extreme cold of the polar regions and
fall in snow or hail, the winds which come from
those regions ought to be generally dry, unless they
gain some humidity by sweeping the ocean in their
way; and, if I mistake not, the winds between the
northwest and northeast are for the most part dry,
when they have continued some time.'

[In the Philosophical Transactions for 1774, p. 128,
is a letter from Mr. J. S. Winn, to Dr. Franklin, stating
that since he had first made the observation concerning
the south or southwest winds succeeding an aurora, he
had found it invariably obtaining in twenty-three in-
stances ; and he adds in a note a fresh confirming instance.
In reply. Dr. Franklin makes the following conjecture.]

The aurora borealis, though visible almost every
night of clear weather in the more northern regions,
and very high in the atmosphere, can scarce be visible
in England but when the atmosphere is pretty clear
of clouds for the whole space between us and those
regions; and therefore are seldom visible there.
This extensive clearness may have been produced by
a long continuance of northerly winds. When the
winds have long continued in one quarter, the return
is often violent. Allowing the fact so repeatedly ob-
served by Mr. Winn, perhaps this may account for
the violence of the southerly winds, that soon follow
the appearance of the aurora on our coasts.

I In one of the copies of this paper there is a line drawn across this
last article.— W. T. F.

This paragraph is not contained in Mr. Vaughan's edition, and was
probably not communicated to him by the author. — Editor.

1779] Benjamin Franklin 395

DCCXXXIV

TO MADAME HELVETIUS

Mortified at the barbarous resolution pronounced
by you so positively yesterday evening, that yoti
would remain single the rest of your life as a compli-
ment due to the memory of your husband, I retired
to my chamber. Throwing myself upon my bed, I
dreamt that I was dead, and was transported to the
Elysian Fields.

I was asked whether I wished to see any persons
in particular; to which I replied that I wished to
see the philosophers. "There are two who live here
at hand in this garden; they are good neighbors, and
very friendly towards one another." — "Who are
they ? " — " Socrates and Helve tins . " — "I esteem
them both highly ; but let me see Helvetius first, be-
cause I understand a little French, but not a word of
Greek." I was conducted to him, he received me
with much courtesy, having known me, he said, by
character, some time past. He asked me a thousand
questions relative to the war, the present state of
religion, of liberty, of the government in France.
" You do not inquire, then," said I, " after your dear
friend, Madame Helvetius; yet she loves you ex-
ceedingly. I was in her company not more than an
hour ago." "Ah," said he, "you make me recur to
my past happiness, which ought to be forgotten in
order to be happy here. For many years I could
think of nothing but her, though at length I am con-
soled. I have taken another wife, the most like her
that I could find; she is not indeed altogether so

39^ The Works of [1779

handsome, but she has a great fund of wit and good-
sense, and her whole study is to please me. She is
at this moment gone to fetch the best nectar and am-
brosia to regale me; stay here awhile and you will
see her." "I perceive," said I, "that your former
friend is more faithful to you than you are to her ; she
has had several good offers, but has refused them all.
I will confess to you that I loved her extremely ; but
she was cruel to me, and rejected me peremptorily
for your sake. " " I pity you sincerely, " said he, " for
she is an excellent woman, handsome and amiable.
But do not the Abbe de la R * * * * and the Abbe
M * * * * visit her?" — "Certainly they do; not
one of your friends has dropped her acquaintance."
— "If you had gained the Abbe M * * * * with a
bribe of good coffee and cream, perhaps you would
have succeeded ; for he is as deep a reasoner as Duns
Scotus or St. Thomas; he arranges and methodizes
his arguments in such a manner that they are al-
most irresistible. Or if by a fine edition of some old
classic you had gained the Abbe de la R * * * *
to speak against you, that would have been still
better, as I always observed that when he recom-
mended any thing to her, she had a great inclination
to do directly the contrary." As he finished these
words the new Madame Helvetius entered with the
nectar, and I recognized her immediately as my for-
mer American friend, Mrs. Franklin! I reclaimed
her, but she answered me coldly : "I was a good wife
to you for forty-nine years and four months, nearly
half a century ; let that content you. I have formed
a new connection here, which will last to eternity."

1779] Benjamin Franklin 397

Indignant at this refusal of my Eurydice, I im-
mediately resolved to quit those ungrateful shades,
and return to this good world again, to behold the
Sim and you ! Here I am ; let us avenge ourselves!

DCCXXXV

TO MADAME HELVETIUS, AT AUTEUIL

— And now I mention your friends, let me tell

you, that I have in my way been trying to form some
hypothesis to account for your having so many, and
of such various kinds. I see that statesmen, philo-
sophers, historians, poets, and men of learning of all
sorts are drawn around you, and seem as willing to
attach themselves to you as straws about a fine piece
of amber. It is not that you make pretensions to
any of their sciences; and if you did, similarity of
studies does not always make people love one an-
other. It is not that you take pains to engage them ;
artless simplicity is a striking part of your character.
I would not attempt to explain it by the story of the
ancient, who, being asked wh} philosophers sought
the acquaintance of kings, and kings not that of
philosophers, replied that philosophers knew what
they wanted, which was not always the case with
kings. Yet thus far the comparison may go, that
we find in your sweet society that charming benevo-
lence, that amiable attention to oblige, that disposi-
tion to please and be pleased, which we do not always
find in the society of one another. It springs from

39^ The Works of [1779

you; it has its influence on us all, and in your com-
pany we are not only pleased with you, but better
pleased with one another and with ourselves.
I am ever, with great respect and affection, etc.,

B. Franklin.

DCCXXXVI

TO L'ABBE DE la ROCHE, AT AUTEUIL

I have run over, my dear friend, the little book of
poetry, by M. Helvetius, with which you presented
me. The poem on Happiness pleased me much, and
brought to my recollection a little drinking-song,
which I wrote forty years ago upon the same subject,
and which is nearly on the same plan, with many of
the same thoughts, but very concisely expressed. It
is as follows :

Singer.

Fair Venus calls; her voice obey,
In beauty's arms spend night and day.
The joys of love all joys excel,
And loving 's certainly doing well.

Chorus.
Oh! no!
Not so !

For honest souls know,
Friends and a bottle still bear the bell.

Singer

Then let us get money, like bees lay up honey;
We '11 build us new hives, and store each cell.
The sight of our treasure shall yield us great pleasure;
We '11 count it, and chink it, and jingle it well.

1779] Benjamin Franklin 399

Chorus
Oh! no!
Not so !

For honest souls know,
Friends and a bottle still bear the bell.

Singer

If this does not fit ye, let's govern the city,

In power is pleasure no tongue can tell ;

By crowds though you're teased, your pride shall be pleased.

And this can make Lucifer happy in hell !

Chorus
Oh! no!
Not so !

For honest souls know.
Friends and a bottle still bear the bell.

Singer

Then toss off your glasses, and scorn the dull asses.
Who, missing the kernel, still gnaw the shell;
What 's love, rule, or riches? Wise Solomon teaches,
They 're vanity, vanity, vanity still.

Chorus
That 's true ;
He knew;

He'd tried them all through;
Friends and a bottle still bore the bell.

'T is a singer, my dear Abbe, who exhorts his
companions to seek happiness in love, in riches, and
in power. They reply, singing together, that happi-
ness is not to be found in any of these things; that
it is only to be found in friends and wine. To this
proposition the singer at last assents. The phrase

400 The Works of [1779

"bear the bell,'' answers to the French expression,
"obtain the prize.''

I have often remarked, in reading the works of M.
Helvetius, that, although we were born and educated
in two countries so remote from each other, we have
often been inspired with the same thoughts; and it
is a reflection very flattering to me, that we have not
only loved the same studies, but, as far as we have
mutually known them, the same friends, and the
same woman. "^ Adieu! my dear friend, etc.,

B. Franklin.

DCCXXXVII

TO L'aBBE DE la ROCHE

"M. Franklin n'oublie jamais aucune Partie ou
Mme. Helvetius doit etre. II croit mgmje que s'il
etait engage d'aller a Paradis ce matin, il ferai sup-
plication d'estre permis de rester sur terre jusqu' k
une heure et demi, pour recevoir I'Embrassade qu' elle
a bien voulu lui promettre en le rencontrant chez
M. Turgot."^

^ Madame Helvetius.

2 "One may judge of Franklin's gallantry," says M. Laboulaye, "by
a note which is preserved in the Imperial Library, and which has never
been published. I am indebted for a copy of it to my amiable and
learned colleague, M. Paulin, of Paris. I respect the orthography of
Franklin."

The note here referred to is given in the text, and the following is
a translation of it :

"Mr. Franklin never forgets any party at which Madame Helvetius
is expected. He even believes that if he were engaged to go to Para-
dise this morning, he would pray for permission to remain on the
earth until half-past one, to receive the embrace promised him at the
Turgots'."

1779] Benjamin Franklin 401

DCCXXXVIII

TO l'abbe morellet

Passy, .

You have often enlivened me my dear friend, by
your excellent drinking-songs; in return, I beg to
edify you by some Christian, moral, and philosophical
reflections upon the same subject.

In vino Veritas, says the wise man, — Truth is in
wine. Before the days of Noah, then, men, having
nothing but water to drink, could not discover the
truth. Thus they went astray, became abominably
wicked, and were justly exterminated by water, which
they loved to drink.

The good man Noah, seeing that through this per-
nicious beverage all his contemporaries had perished,
took it in aversion; and to quench his thirst God
created the vine, and revealed to him the means of
converting its fruit into wine. By means of this
liquor he discovered numberless important truths ; so
that ever since his time the word to divine has been
in common use, signifying originally, to discover by
means of wine. Thus the patriarch Joseph took
upon himself to divine by means of a cup or glass of
WINE a liquor which obtained this name to show that
it was not of human but divine invention (another
proof of the antiquity of the French language, in op-
position to M. Gebelin) ; nay, since that time, all
things of peculiar excellence, even the Deities them-
selves, have been called Divine or Di'ymities.

We hear of the conversion of water into wine at
the marriage in Cana as of a miracle. But this

402 The Works of [1779

conversion is, through the goodness of God, made
every day before our eyes. Behold the rain which
descends from heaven upon our vineyards, and which
incorporates itself with the grapes, to be changed
into wine; a constant proof that God loves us,
and loves to see us happy. The miracle in ques-
tion was only performed to hasten the operation,
under circumstances of present necessity, which re-
quired it.

It is true that God has also instructed man to re-
duce wine into water. But into what sort of water ?
— Water of Life.^ And this, that man may be able
upon occasion to perform the miracle of Cana, and
convert common water into that excellent species of
wine which we call punch.

My Christian brother, be kind and benevolent like
God, and do not spoil his good work. He made
wine to gladden the heart of man ; do not, therefore,
when at table you see your neighbor pour wine into
his glass, be eager to mingle water with it. Why
would you drown truthf It is probable that your
neighbor knows better than you can what suits him.
Perhaps he does not like water; perhaps he would
only put in a few drops for fashion's sake; perhaps
he does not wish any one to observe how much he
puts in his glass. Do not, then, offer water, except
to children; 't is a mistaken piece of politeness, and
often very inconvenient. I give you this hint as a
man of the world; and I will finish as I began, like
a good Christian, in making a religious observation
of high importance, taken from the Holy Scriptures.

^ Eati-de-vie, that is, brandy.

1779] Benjamin Franklin 403

I mean that the apostle Paul counselled Timothy
very seriously to put wine into his water for the
sake of his health; but that not one of the apostles
or holy fathers ever recommended putting water to
wine. B. Franklin.

P. S. — To confirm still more your piety and grati-
tude to Divine Providence, reflect upon the situation
which it has given to the elhow. You see in animals,
who are intended to drink the waters that flow upon
the earth, that if they have long legs, they have also
a long neck, so that they can get at their drink with-
out kneeling down. But man, who was destined to
drink wine, is framed in a manner that he may raise
the glass to his mouth. If the elbow had been
placed nearer the hand, the part in advance would
have been too short to bring the glass up to the
mouth ; and if it had been nearer the shoulder, that
part would have been so long that when it attempted
to carry the wine to the mouth it would have over-
shot the mark, and gone beyond the head; thus,
either way, we should have been in the case of Tanta-
lus. But from the actual situation of the elbow, we
are enabled to drink at our ease, the glass going di-
rectly to the mouth. Let us, then, with glass in
hand, adore this benevolent wisdom; — let us adore
and drink!

404 The Works of [1779

DCCXXXIX

AN ECONOMICAL PROJECT

To the Authors of the Journal of Paris:

Messieurs : — You often entertain us with accounts
of new discoveries. Permit me to communicate to
the pubHc, through your paper, one that has lately
been made by myself, and which I conceive may be
of great utility.

I was the other evening in a grand company, where
the new lamp of Messrs. Quinquet and Lange was
introduced, and much admired for its splendor; but
a general inquiry was made, whether the oil it con-
sumed was not in proportion to the light it afforded,
in which case there would be no saving in the use of
it. No one present could satisfy us in that point,
which all agreed ought to be known, it being a very
desirable thing to lessen, if possible, the expense of
lighting our apartments, when every other article of
family expense was so much augmented.

I was pleased to see this general concern for econ-
omy, for I love economy exceedingly.

I went home, and to bed, three or four hours after
midnight, with my head full of the subject. An acci-
dental sudden noise waked me about six in the morn-
ing, when I was surprised to find my room filled with
light ; and I imagined at first that a number of those
lamps had been brought into it; but, rubbing my
eyes, I perceived the light came in at the windows.
I got up and looked out to see what might be the
occasion of it, when I saw the sun just rising above
the horizon, whence he poured his rays plentifully

17791 Benjamin Franklin 405

into my chamber, my domestic having negligently
omitted, the preceding evening, to close the shutters.
I looked at my watch, which goes very well, and
found that it was but six o'clock; and still thinking
it something extraordinary that the sun should rise
so early, I looked into the almanac, where I found it
to be the hour given for his rising on that day. I
looked forward, too, and found he was to rise still
earlier every day till towards the end of June; and
that at no time in the year he retarded his rising so
long as till eight o 'clock. Your readers, who with me
have never seen any signs of sunshine before noon,
and seldom regard the astronomical part of the alma-
nac, will be as much astonished as I was, when they
hear of his rising so early; and especially when I
assure them that he gives light as soon as he rises. I
am convinced of this. I am certain of my fact. One
cannot be more certain of any fact. I saw it with
my own eyes. And, having repeated this observa-
tion the three following mornings, I found always
precisely the same result.

Yet it so happens that, when I speak of this dis-
covery to others, I can easily perceive by their coun-
tenances, though they forbear expressing it in words,
that they do not quite believe me. One, indeed, who
is a learned natural philosopher, has assured me that
I must certainly be mistaken as to the circumstance
of the light coming into my room; for it being well
known, as he says, that there could be no light abroad
at that hour, it follows that none could enter from
without; and that of consequence, my windows being
accidentally left open, instead of letting in the light.

4o6 The Works of [1779

had only served to let out the darkness ; and he used
many ingenious arguments to show me how I might,
by that means, have been deceived. I owned that he
puzzled me a little, but he did not satisfy me; and
the subsequent observations I made, as above men-
tioned, confirmed me in m.y first opinion.

This event has given rise in my mind to several
serious and important reflections. I considered that
if I had not been awakened so early in the morning I
should have slept six hours longer by the light of the
sun, and in exchange have lived six hours the follow-
ing night by candle-light, and the latter being a much
more expensive light than the former, my love of
economy induced me to muster up what little arith-
metic I was master of, and to make some calculations
which I shall give you, after observing that utility is,
in my opinion, the test of value in matters of inven-
tion, and that a discovery \#iich can be applied to no
use, or is not good for something, is good for nothing.

I took for the basis of my calculation the supposi-
tion that there are one hundred thousand famihes in
Paris, and that these famihes consume in the night
half a pound of bougies, or candles, per hour. I
think this is a moderate allowance, taking one family
with another; for though I believe some consume
less, I know that many consume a great deal more.
Then estimating seven hours per day as the medium
quantity between the time of the sun's rising and
ours, he rising during the six following months from
six to eight hours before noon, and there being seven
hours, of course, per night, in which we bum candles,
the account will stand thus:

1779] Benjamin Franklin 407

In the six months between the 20th of March and
the 20th of September there are

Nights 183

Hours of each night in which we bum

candles ...... 7

Multiplication gives for the total num-
ber of hours ..... 1,281

These 1,281 hours multiplied by 100,000,

the number of inhabitants, give . 128,100,000

One hundred twenty-eight millions and
one hundred thousand hours spent
at Paris by candle-light, which, at
half a pound of wax and tallov/ per
hour, gives the weight of . . 64,050,000

Sixty-four millions and fifty thousands
of pounds, which, estimating the
whole at the medium' price of thirty
sols the pound, makes the sum of
ninety-six millions and seventy-
five thousand livres toumois . . 96,075,000

An immense sum, that the cit}^ of Paris might save
every year by the economy of using sunshine instead
of candles!

If it should be said that people are apt to be ob-
stinately attached to old customs, and that it will be
difficult to induce them to rise before noon, conse-
quently my discovery can be of little use, I answer,
Nil desperandum. I believe all who have common-
sense, as soon as they have learnt from this paper
that it is daylight when the sun rises, will contrive to

4o8 The Works of [1779

rise with him, and, to compel the rest, I would pro-
pose the following regulations:

First. Let a tax be laid of a louis per window on
every window that is provided with shutters to keep
out the light of the sun.

Second. Let the same salutary operation of po-
lice be made use of, to prevent our burning candles,
that inclined us last winter to be more economical in
burning wood; that is, let guards be placed in the
shops of the wax and tallow chandlers, and no family
be permitted to be supplied with more than one
pound of candles per week.

Third. Let guards also be posted to stop all the
coaches, etc., that would pass the streets after sun-
set, except those of physicians, surgeons, and mid-
wives.

Fourth. Every morning, as soon as the sun rises,
let all the bells in every church be set ringing ; and
if that is not sufficient, let cannon be fired in every
street, to wake the sluggards effectually, and make
them open their eyes to see their true interest.

All the difficulty will be in the first two or three
days, after which the reformation will be as natural
and easy as the present irregularity; for, ce n'est que
le premier pas qui coute. Oblige a man to rise at
four in the morning, and it is more than probable he
will go willingly to bed at eight in the evening; and,
having had eight hours' sleep, he will rise more will-
ingly at four in the morning following. But this
sum of ninety-six milhons and seventy-five thousand
livres is not the whole of what may be saved by my
economical project. You may observe that I have

1779] Benjamin Franklin 409

calculated upon only one half of the year, and much
may be saved in the other, though the days are
shorter. Besides, the immense stock of wax and
tallow left unconsumed during the summer will
probably make candles much cheaper for the ensuing
winter, and continue them cheaper as long as the
proposed reformation shall be supported.

For the great benefit of this discovery, thus freely
communicated and bestowed by me on the public, I
demand neither place, pension, exclusive privilege,
nor any other reward whatever. I expect only to
have the honor of it. And yet I know there are lit-
tle, envious minds who will, as usual, deny me this,
and say that my invention was known to the an-
cients, and perhaps they may bring passages out of
the old books in proof of it. I will not dispute with
these people that the ancients knew not that the sun
would rise at certain hours; they possibly had, as we
have, almanacs that predicted it, but it does not
follow thence that they knew he gave light as soon as
he rose. This is what I claim as my discovery. If the
ancients knew it, it must have been long since for-
gotten ; for it certainly was unknown to the modems,
at least to the Parisians, which to prove I need use
but one plain simple argument. They are as well in-
structed, judicious, and prudent a people as exist
anywhere in the world, all professing, like myself, to
be lovers of economy, and from the many heavy
taxes required from them by the necessities of the
state, have surely an abundant reason to be economi-
cal. I say it is impossible that so sensible a people,
under such circumstances, should have lived so long

41 o The Works of [1779

by the smoky, unwholesome, and enormously expen-
sive Hght of candles, if they had really known that
they might have had as much pure light of the sun
for nothing. I am, etc.,

A Subscriber.

DCCXL

THE LEVEE '

In the first chapter of Job we have an account of a
transaction said to have arisen in the court, or at the
levee, of the best of all possible princes, or of govern-
ments by a single person, viz., that of God himself.

At this levee, in which the sons of God were assem-
bled, Satan also appeared.

It is probable the writer of that ancient book took
his idea of this levee from those of the Eastern mon-
archs of the age he lived in.

It is to this day usual at the levees of princes to
have persons assembled who are enemies to each
other, who seek to obtain favor by whispering ca-
lumny and detraction, and thereby ruining those that
distinguish themselves by their virtue and merit.
And kings frequently ask a familiar question or two
of every one in the circle, merely to show their be-
nignity. These circumstances are particularly ex-
emplified in this relation.

If a modem king, for instance, finds a person in the
circle who has not lately been there, he naturally asks

^ This was one of several articles written by Franklin for the amuse-
ment of his friends, and which were found in a portfolio endorsed
" Bagatelles." — Editor.

1779] Benjamin Franklin 411

him how he has passed his time since he last had the
pleasure of seeing him. The gentleman perhaps re-
plies that he has been in the country to view his
estates and visit some friends. Thus Satan being
asked whence he cometh, answers: "From going to
and fro in the earth, and walking up and down in it."
And being further asked whether he had considered
the uprightness and fidelity of the prince's servant
Job, he immediately displays all the malignance of
the designing courtier by answering with another
question: "Doth Job serve God for naught? Hast
thou not given him immense wealth, and protected
him in the possession of it? Deprive him of that
and he will curse thee to thy face." In modem
phrase : " Take away his places and his pensions and
your Majesty will soon find him in the opposition."

This whisper against Job had its effect. He was
delivered into the power of his adversary, who de-
prived him of his fortune, destroyed his family, and
completely ruined him.

The Book of Job is called by divines a sacred
poem, and with the rest of the Holy Scriptures is
understood to be written for our instruction.

What then is the instruction to be gathered from
this supposed transaction ?

Trust not a single person with the government of
your state. For if the Deity himself, being the mon-
arch, may for a time give way to calumny, and suffer
it to operate the destruction of the best of subjects,
what mischief may you not expect from such power
in a mere man, though the best of men, from w^hom
the truth is often industriously hidden, and to whom

412 The Works of [1779

falsehood is often presented in its place, by artful,
interested, and malicious courtiers?

And be cautious in trusting him even with limited
powers, lest sooner or later he sap and destroy those
limits and render himself absolute.

For by the disposal of places he attaches to him-
self all the place-holders, with their numerous con-
nections, and also all the expecters and hopers of
places, which will form a strong party in promoting
his views. By various political engagements for the
interest of neighboring states or princes he procures
their aid in establishing his own personal power.
So that, through the hopes of emolument in one part
of his subjects, and the fear of his resentment in the
other, all opposition falls before him.

DCCXLI

PROPOSED NEW VERSION OF THE BIBLE

To the Printer of

Sir: — It is now more than one hundred and sev-
enty years since the translation of our common Eng-
lish Bible. The language in that time is much
changed, and the style being obsolete, and thence
less agreeable, is perhaps one reason why the reading
of that excellent book is of late so much neglected.
I have therefore thought it would be well to procure
a new version in which, preserving the sense, the turn
of phrase and manner of expression should be modem.
I do not pretend to have the necessary abilities for
such a work myself; I throw out the hint for the

1779]

Benjamin Franklin
consideration of the learned, and only venture to
send you a few verses of the first chapter of Job,
which may serve as a sample of the kind of version
I would recommend. A. B.

PART OF THE FIRST CHAPTER OF JOB MODERNIZED

Old Text.

Verse 6. Now there was a day
when the sons of God came to pre-
sent themselves before the Lord,
and Satan came also among
them.

7. And the Lord said unto
Satan; Whence comest thou ?
Then Satan answered the Lord,
and said : From going to and fro in
the earth, and from walking up
and down in it.

8. And the Lord said unto
Satan: Hast thou considered my
servant Job, that there is none like
him in the earth, a perfect and an
upright man, one that feareth
God, and escheweth evil?

9. Then Satan answered the
Lord, and said: Doth Job fear
God for nought ?

10. Hast not thou made an
hedge about his house, and about
all that he hath on every side?
Thou hast blessed the work of his
hands, and his substance is in-
creased in the land.

11. But put forth thine hand
now, and touch all that he hath,
and he will curse thee to thy face.

New Version.

Verse 6. And it being levee day
in heaven, all God's nobility came
to court, to present themselves be-
fore him ; and Satan also appeared
in the circle, as one of the minis-
try.

7. And God said to Satan : You
have been some time absent;
where were you? And Satan an-
swered: I have been at my coun-
try-seat, and in different places
visiting my friends.

8. And God said: Well, what
think you of Lord Job ? You see
he is my best friend, a perfectly
honest man, fiill of respect for me,
and avoiding every thing that
might offend me.

9. And Satan answered : Does
yotur Majesty imagine that his
good conduct is the effect of mere
personal attachment and affec-
tion?

10. Have you not protected
him, and heaped your benefits
upon him, till he is grown enor-
mously rich?

II. Try him; only withdraw
your favor, turn him out of his
places, and withhold his pensions,
and you will soon find him in the
opposition.

414 The Works of [1779

DCCXLII

APOLOGUE '

Lion, king of a certain forest, had among his sub-
jects a body of faithful dogs, in principle and affec-
tion strongly attached to his person and govern-
ment, and through whose assistance he had extended
his dominions, and had become the terror of his
enemies.

Lion, however, influenced by evil counsellors, took
an aversion to the dogs, condemned them unheard,
and ordered his tigers, leopards, and panthers to at-
tack and destroy them.

The dogs petitioned humbly, but their petitions
were rejected haughtily, and they were forced to de-
fend themselves, which they did with bravery.

A few among them, of a mongrel race, derived from
a mixture with wolves and foxes, corrupted by royal
promises of great rewards, deserted the honest dogs,
and joined their enemies.

The dogs were finally victorious ; a treaty of peace
was made in which Lion acknowledged them to be
free, and disclaimed all future authority over them.

The mongrels, not being permitted to return
among them, claimed of the royalists the reward that
had been promised.

A council of the beasts was held to consider their
demand.

The wolves and the foxes agreed unanimously that
the demand was just, that royal promises ought to

^ Written at the period of, and in allusion to, the claims of the
American Royalists on the British Government. — W. T. F.

1779] Benjamin Franklin 415

be kept, and that every loyal subject should con-
tribute freely to enable his Majesty to fulfil them.
The horse alone, with a boldness and freedom that
became the nobleness of his nature, delivered a con-
trary opinion;

" The king, said he, " has been misled by bad min-
isters to war unjustly upon his faithful subjects.
Royal promises, when made to encourage us to act
for the public good, should indeed be honorably ac-
quitted ; but if to encourage us to betray and destroy
each other, they are wicked and void from the be-
ginning. The advisers of such promises, and those
who murdered in consequence of them, should be se-
verely punished. Consider how greatly our common
strength is already diminished by our loss of the
dogs. If 3^ou will enable the king to reward those
fratricides, you will establish a precedent that will
justify a future tyrant to make like promises, and
every example of such an unnatural brute rewarded
will give them additional weight. Horses and bulls,
as well as dogs, may thus be divided against their
own kind, and civil wars produced at pleasure, till we
are so weakened that neither liberty nor safety is any
longer to be found in the forest, and nothing remains
but abject submission to the will of a despot who
may devour us as he pleases."

The council had sense enough to resolve that the
demand be rejected.

4i6 The Works of [1779

DCCXLIII

FROM SAMUEL COOPER TO B. FRANKLIN

Boston, 4 January, 1779.

My Dear Sir: — The Marquis de Lafayette will
do me the honor to be the bearer of this letter. This
young nobleman has done honor to his nation, as
well as to himself, by the manner in which he has
served these States. His intrepidity and alertness
in the field are highly distinguished. His prudence
and good temper are equally remarkable. He is
highly esteemed and beloved in Congress, in the
army, and through the States; and, though we are
not without parties, and his situation has been some-
times very delicate, I have never heard that he has
made a single enemy. He has gone through great
fatigues, he has faced uncommon dangers, he has
bled for our country, and leaves it, as far as I am
able to find, with universal applause. In short, his
whole conduct, both public and private, appears to
me to have been most happily adapted to serve the
great purpose of the alliance, and cement the two
nations. Justice obliges me to make this mention
of one who has done so much for our country, as well
as his own, and from whose acquaintance, with
which he has honored me, I have received the great-
est pleasure. His acquaintance with our military
and political affairs will enable him to give you many
details, which cannot easily be conveyed by writing.

You will hear, before this reaches you, of what has
been done in this quarter by the armament under
the orders of the Count d'Estaing:. The abilities

1779] Benjamin Franklin 417

of this commander, his bravery, and zeal for our
common cause, are indisputably great. No man
could have done more in his situation than he has
done. He was unfortunate in the weather he met
with, which greatly delayed his passage to these seas,
gave an opportunity to the British navy and army
to escape from Philadelphia, snatched a victory
from him off Rhode Island, and put his fleet in such
a condition that he was indispensably obliged to
leave that place at a critical time, which occasioned
reflections from some that were unmerited. He
bore all with a manly patience and uncommon pru-
dence. I admired his firmness, silence, and con-
descension. He relied on the proofs he had given
of attachment to our cause, and of the capacity and
undauntedness with which he had prosecuted the
service upon which he was sent.

The account he gave of the reasons for coming
to Boston with his fleet, before the Council of this
State, not only satisfied that body, but gave them a
high idea of his merits as a commander. The preju-
dices of a few soon vanished, which had been raised
by an honest but indiscreet warmth in some officers
employed in the expedition against Rhode Island.
His officers imitated their commander in preserving
the best order through the fleet during their resi-
dence here; everybody admired the peaceable, in-
offensive, courteous behavior of such a number of
men ; and the Count left us on the 4th of November
last, with the strongest impressions of esteem and
affection for him, of the friendship of his court and
nation for us, and of the superior order and civility

41 8 The Works of [1779

prevailing in the French forces. He is gone, it is
conjectured (for nobody pretends to know), for the
West Indies. We hope, if the war continues, to see
him in the spring, and that Canada will be wrested
from the British power. This may be easily done
by a joint invasion by sea and land provided our
finances will allow us to support an army; but the
depreciation of our money is so great that I fear our
inability to do this, unless we have assistance, and
can procure loans from abroad. If such a plan of
operations is adopted, France must give us the most
unequivocal assurances that she means not to resume
the government of Canada, but to incorporate it with
the United States. This is her true interest, and is
so agreeable to the principles and basis of the alliance,
that I have not the least doubt she intends it, and
it will only be needful to make known her intentions
in the most explicit manner, at least to us.'

It gives me great pleasure to hear of the continu-
ance of your health and vivacity. Though it is long
since I have had the pleasure of a line from you, I
am sure you do not forget one who is, with the great-
est respect and warmest friendship, ever yours,

Samuel Cooper.

I Concerning this proposed Canada expedition, see Sparks 's Life of
Washington, 2d ed., p. 287.

I779J Benjamin Franklin 4^9

DCCXLIV

TO RALPH IZARD "

Passy, 4 January, 1779.

SjR._Your intimation that you expect more
money from us obliges us to expose to you our cir-
cumstances. Upon the supposition that Congress
had borrowed in America but five milHons of dollars,
or twenty-five millions of livres, and relying on the re-
mittances intended to be sent to us, for answering
other demands, we gave expectations that we should
be able to pay here the interest of that sum as a
means of supporting the credit of the currency. The
Congress have borrowed near twice that sum, and are
now actually drawing on us for the interest, the bills
appearing here daily for acceptance. Their distress
for money in America has been so great from the
enormous expense of the war, that they have also
been induced to draw on us for very large sums, to
stop other pressing demands ; and they have not been
able to purchase remittances for us to the extent they
proposed; and of what they have sent, much has
been taken or treacherously carried into England,
only two small cargoes of tobacco having arrived,
and they are long since mortgaged to the Farmers
General, so that they produce us nothing, but leave
us expenses to pay.

The Continental vessels of war which come to

I This letter was written by Dr. Franklin, but intended to be signed
by the Commissioners jointly. On the back of the manuscript is the
following endorsement: "Rough draft of a proposed letter m answer
to one from Mr. Izard to the Commissioners, dated January 2d.'

420 The Works of [1779

France have likewise required great sums of us to
furnish or refit them and supply the men with neces-
saries. The prisoners, too, who escape from Eng-
land, claim a very expensive assistance from us, and
are much dissatisfied with the scanty allowance we
are able to afford them. The interest bills above
mentioned, of the drawing of which we have received
notice, amount to two millions and a half, and we
have not a fifth part of the sum in our banker's hands
to answer them; and large orders to us from Con-
gress for supplies of clothing, arms, and ammunition
remain uncomplied with for want of money.

In this situation of our affairs, we hope you will
not insist on our giving you a farther credit with our
banker, with whom we are daily in danger of having
no farther credit ourselves. It is not a year since
you received from us the sum of two thousand
guineas, which you thought necessary on account of
your being to set out immediately for Florence. You
have not incurred the expense of that journey. You
are a gentleman of fortune. You did not come to
France with any dependence on being maintained
here with your family at the expense of the United
States, in the time of their distress, and without ren-
dering them the equivalent service they expected.

On all these considerations we should rather hope
that you would be willing to reimburse us the sum we
have advanced to you, if it may be done with any
possible convenience to your affairs. Such a supply
would at least enable us to relieve more liberally our
unfortunate countrymen, who have long been prison-
ers, stripped of every thing, of whom we daily expect

1779] Benjamin Franklin 421

to have near three hundred upon our hands by the
exchange. We have the honor to be, etc.

DCCXLV

TO THE COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN AFFAIRS

Passy, 15 January, 1779.

Gentlemen: — It being undoubtedly our duty to
give the clearest account to Congress of the disburse-
ment of their money intrusted to us, and as I appre-
hend our advancing to Mr. William Lee and Mr.
Ralph Izard so large a sum as four thousand guineas
at once, in February, 1778, without any order of
Congress for so doing, and at a time when money
was much wanted to fulfil their actual orders in the
purchase of arms, etc., may subject the Commis-
sioners to censure, I think it right and necessary to
relate the circumstances, that they may be communi-
cated to our constituents.

Those gentlemen then, having represented to Mr.
Deane, Mr. Lee, and myself, that, though they had
received commissions to go and reside at the courts
of Berlin, Vienna, and Florence, no provision had
arrived for their subsistence ; that they were nearly
ready to set out for their respective destinations, but
wanted money to defray the expense of their jour-
neys, for which they therefore requested us to furnish
them with a credit on our banker. The Commis-
sioners, fearing that the public interests might pos-
sibly suffer if those journeys were delayed till the

422 The Works of

.1779

necessary provision or orders should arrive from
America, thought they might be justified in giving
such a credit for the expense of those journeys, and
Mr. Lee, being asked what sum he imagined would
be necessary, said, justly, that the expenses of his
journey could not be exactly ascertained beforehand,
but, if he were empowered to draw on our banker,
he should certainly only take from time to time
what was absolutely necessary, and therefore it was
of little importance for what sum the credit should
be ordered; it would however look handsome and
confidential if the sum were two thousand louis.
We thereupon, confiding that no more of this money
would be taken out of our disposition than the ex-
penses of the journeys as they should accrue, did
frankly but unwarily give the orders.

Mr. Deane and myself were, however, soon sur-
prised with the intelligence that the gentleman had
gone directly to the banker, and by virtue of these
orders had taken out of our account the whole sum
mentioned, and carried it to their own; leaving the
money indeed in his hands, but requiring his receipt
for it as their money, for which he was to be account-
able to them only.

This enormous sum having been received by those
gentlemen not above ten months, I was still more sur-
prised when the following letters were communicated
to me by my present colleagues, requiring more
money. My colleague, Mr. Adams, was at first as
much surprised as myself [Incomplete.]

1779] Benjamin Franklin 423

DCCXLVI

FROM DAVID HARTLEY

London, 23 January, 1779.

My Dear Friend: — You know my constant and
earnest desire for peace. You are so fully possessed
of my principles upon these subjects, that you can-
not doubt but that the sentiments expressed in the
fourth letter on the American war, lately written
by a Member of Parliament in this country to his
constituents, do perfectly accord with mine.'

In your letter of 26th October last, you seem to
express that a visit from a friend would not be un-
welcome, if that friend were in the character of
plenipotentiary, to treat of a sincere peace between
all parties. You must know from the course of pub-
lic transactions in England, that the alhance between
France and America is a great stumbling-block.
Whatever engagements America may have entered
into, they will at least by consent of parties be re-
linquished for the purpose of removing so material
an obstacle to any general treaty of free and un-
engaged parties. If the parties could meet for the
sake of peace, upon free and open ground, I should
think that a very fair proposition to be offered to the
people of England, and an equitable proposition in
itself. The universal destruction attending war to
all parties ought to be a motive for the restoration
of peace, superseding all minute considerations.
Knowing the sincerity of your desire for peace,
I throw out to you the cursory thoughts which

1 The letters were written by Mr. Hartley, and published by Almon.

424 The Works of [1779

present themselves to me, to take the chance of start-
ing any idea which may lead to that blessed end.
I am yours affectionately,

G. B.

DCCXLVII

TO DAVID HARTLEY

Passy, 25 January, 1779.

Dear Sir: — I a long time believed that your gov-
ernment were in earnest in agreeing to an exchange
of prisoners. I begin now to think I was mistaken.
It seems they cannot give up the pleasing idea of
having at the end of the war one thousand Americans
to hang for high treason. You were also long of
opinion that the animosity against America was not
national or general; but having seen the extermin-
ating proclamation of the Commissioners approved
by kings, lords, and commons, and that not attended
by any marks of popular disapprobation, perhaps you
too begin to think you are mistaken. I thank you
for writing those excellent letters to your constitu-
ents. I like all but your reflections against the king
of France for assisting us. In my mind, the coming
to the relief of an innocent people under the bloody
oppression your ministers were exercising over them,
and exposing himself and nation to a war on their
account, was not only what any prince had a right to
do for the sake of common humanity, but was a
magnanimous and heroic action that is admired at
present by the wise and good through all Europe,

1779] Benjamin Franklin 425

and will hand his name down with glory to posterity.
Our different ways of thinking in this particular will
not, however, diminish our private friendship, nor
impair the sentiments of sincere esteem and respect
with which I am ever, dear sir,

Yours, B. Franklin.

DCCXLVIII

TO MRS. MARGARET STEVENSON

Passy, 25 January, 1779.

It is always with great pleasure, when I think of
our long-continued friendship, which had not the
least interruption in the course of twenty years (some
of the happiest of my life), that I spent under your
roof and in your company. If I do not write to you
as often as I used to do, when I happened to be
absent from you, it is owing partly to the present
difficulty of sure communication, and partly to an ap-
prehension of some inconvenience that m}^ correspond-
ence might possibly occasion you. Be assured, my
dear friend, that my regard, esteem, and affection for
you are not in the least impaired or diminished, and
that, if circumstances would permit, nothing would
afford me so much satisfaction as to be with you in
the same house, and to experience again your faith-
ful, tender care and attention to my interests, health,
and comfortable living, which so long and steadily
attached me to you, and which I shall ever remember
with gratitude.

426 The Works of [1779

I thought I had mentioned to you before (and I
beHeve I did, though my letter may have miscarried),
that I had received the white cloth suit, the sword,
and the saddle for Temple, all in good order. I men-
tion them now again, because Polly tells me you had
not heard of their arrival. I wore the clothes a good
deal last summer. There is one thing more that I
wish to have, if you should meet with an opportunity
of sending it. I mean the copper pot lined with sil-
ver, to roast fowls in by means of a heater. I should
also be glad of the piece of elephant's tooth. It is
old ivory, perhaps of the time before the flood, and
would be a rarity to some friends here. But I doubt
you will not be able to send them.

I rejoice to learn that your health is established,
and that you live pleasantly in a country town, with
agreeable neighbors, and have your dear children
about you. My love to every one of them. I long
to see them and you; but the times do not permit
me the hope of it. Why do you never write to me ?
I used to love to read your letters, and I regret your
long silence. They were seasoned with good-sense
and friendship, and even your speUing pleased me.
Polly knows I think the worst spelling the best. I
do not write to her by this conveyance. You will let
her know that I acknowledge the receipt of her pleas-
ing letter, dated the nth instant. I shall now only
observe to you upon it, that I know not how the pat-
ent can be taken out in Jacob's name. I am sure he
had no claim to it, for when I first proposed to him
the making of such wheels at Mr. Viny's, in the
country, he objected to it as impracticable. But Mr.

1779] Benjamin Franklin 427

Viny, who seized the thought and carried it into exe-
cution, had certainly the best right to the patent. I
wish he would send me a good drawing, with the pro-
portions, of the little carriage with horses, which his
children came once in to see us. How do they all
do, and particularly my little patient Bessum?

Since my coming here I have been told that Mr.
Henley, the linen-draper, had said, on my going to
America, that I had gone away in his debt. I can
hardly believe it. Let me know if you have heard
such a thing, and what is the meaning of it. I
thought he had been fully paid, and still think so, and
shall till I am assured of the contrary. Let me know,
at the same time, how my account stands with you.

You wish to know how I live. It is in a fine house,
situated in a neat village, on high ground, half a mile '
from Paris, with a large garden to walk in. I have
abundance of acquaintance, dine abroad six days in
seven. Sundays I reserve to dine at home, with such
Americans as pass this way, and I then have my
grandson Ben, with some other American children
from the school.

If being treated with all the politeness of France,
and the apparent respect and esteem of all ranks,
from the highest to the lowest, can make a man
happy, I ought to be so. Indeed, I have nothing to
complain of, but a Httle too much business, and the
want of that order and economy in my family, which
reigned in it when under your prudent direction. My
paper gives me only room to add that I am ever
yours most affectionately, B. Franklin.

^ Passy is now a part of the city of Paris.

428 The Works of [1779

DCCXLIX

TO MESSRS. LLOYD AND OTHERS

Passy, 26 January, 1779.

Gentlemen: — We had yesterday the honor of
your letter of the 21st of this month.

You desire to know what port or ports is or are
made free, pursuant to the treaty. We beheve that
none have as yet been determined on. At present
all the ports of France are open to American ves-
sels of all denominations, and we are at present
rather doubtful whether it would be politic in us to
apply to have any distinction made. If the appoint-
ment of free ports would reheve us from the payment
of duties of import or export, we should apply im-
mediately. But as we apprehend this advantage
would not be the consequence, the limits of the free
ports would be prescribed, and the same duties must
be paid upon removing goods within or without those
limits as are now paid upon imports or exports.
Goods, however, might be brought into such free
ports from abroad, and there landed and stored for a
time, and then exported without paying duties ; but
whether this would be any great advantage to our
trade at present, you are better judges than we. We
shall be glad of your advice upon this head, and if
you think of any advantages of considerable moment
that would arise, we shall be always ready to apply
for such an appointment. We are sorry it is not in
our power to give you any acceptable information
respecting the eighth article of the treaty, which
relates to the Barbary corsairs. All we can say is

1779] Benjamin Franklin 429

that we have applied to the ministry upon this head
some months ago, and received satisfactory expres-
sions of the dispositions of this government to do
every thing that is stipulated in that article of the
treaty. But some things remain to be determined
by Congress, to whom we have written on the sub-
ject, and we must necessarily await their instructions.

There are two inquiries to be made, viz. : which of
all the nations who now trade with France is the
most favored? and what duties are paid by that
nation? These duties, and these only, we suppose,
we are to pay ; and as soon as circumstances will per-
mit,— two of us having been for a fortnight very ill,
and one of us continuing so, — we shall apply to the
ministry for an eclaircissement upon this head, which
we shall endeavor to communicate to you as soon as
we shall obtain it.

We have received an answer to our last application
for a convoy from their excellencies, the Count de
Vergennes and M. de Sartine. But the answers
convinced us that M. de Sartine was under some
misinformation or misunderstanding relative to the
business, which obliged us to write again. As soon
as we shall be honored with an answer, we will com-
municate the result of it to you.

For the Commissioners, by B. Franklin. '

^ This was the last important letter written by Franklin as Com-
missioner. He was appointed Minister Plenipotentiary on the 14th
of September. 1778, and received his credentials the second week in
February.

430 The Works of [1779

DCCL

TO DAVID HARTLEY

Passy, 3 February, 1779.

Dear Sir: — I have just received your favor of the
23d past, in v^hich you mention "that the alliance
between France and America is the great stumbling-
block in the way of making peace ' ' ; and you go on
to observe that "whatever engagements America
may have entered into they may at least by consent
of parties be relinquished for the purpose of removing
so material an obstacle to any general treaty of free
and imengaged parties," adding that "if the parties
could meet for the sake of peace upon free and open
ground you should think that sl very fair proposition
to be offered to the people of England, and an equit-
able proposition in itself."

The long, steady, and kind regard you have shown
for the welfare of America by the whole tenor of
your conduct in Parliament, satisfies me that this
proposition never took its rise with you, but has been
suggested from some other quarter, and that your ex-
cess of humanity, your love of peace, and your fear
for us, that the destruction we are threatened with
will certainly be effected, have thrown a mist before
your eyes, which hindered you from seeing the ma-
lignity and mischief of it. We know that your king
hates Whigs and Presbyterians; that he thirsts for
our blood, of which he has already drunk large
draughts ; that weak and unprincipled ministers are
ready to execute the wickedest of his orders, and his
venal Parliament equally ready to vote them just.

17791 Benjamin Franklin 43 1

Not the smallest appearance of a reason can be im-
agined capable of inducing us to think of relinquish-
ing a solid alliance with one of the most amiable as
well as most powerful princes of Europe for the
expectation of unknown terms of peace, to be after-
wards offered to us by such a government, a govern-
ment that has already shamefully broken all the
compacts it ever made with us. This is worse than
advising us to drop the substance for the shadow.
The dog, after he found his mistake, might possibly
have recovered his mutton ; but we could never hope
to be trusted again by France, or indeed by any other
nation under heaven. Nor does there appear any
more necessity for dissolving an alliance with France
before you can treat with us, than there would be of
dissolving your alliance with Holland, or your union
with Scotland, before we could treat with you. Ours
is, therefore, no material obstacle to a treaty, as you
suppose it to be. Had Lord North been the author
of such a proposition, all the world would have said
it was insidious, and meant only to deceive and
divide us from our friends, and then to ruin us, sup-
posing our fears might be so strong as to procure an
acceptance of it. But, thanks to God, that is not the
case. We have long since settled all the account in
our own minds. We know the worst you can do to
us, if you have your wish, is to confiscate our estates
and take our lives, to rob and murder us; and this
you have seen we are ready to hazard rather than
come again under your detested government.

You must observe, my dear friend, that I am a lit-
tle warm. Excuse me It is over. Only let me
The Works of [1779

counsel you not to think of being sent hither on so
fruitless an errand as that of making such a propo-
sition.

It puts me in mind of the comic farce entitled God-
Send; or, The Wreckers. You may have forgotten
but I will endeavor to amuse you by recollecting a

little of it.

Scene. — Mount's Bay.

[A ship riding at anchor in a great storm. A lee
shore full of rocks, and lined with people, furnished
with axes and carriages to cut up wrecks, knock the
sailors on the head, and carry off the plunder, accord-
ing to custom. '\

1st Wrecker. This ship rides it out longer than I
expected ; she must have good ground tackle.

2d Wrecker. We had better send out a boat to
her, and persuade her to take a pilot, who can after-
wards run her ashore, where we can best come at her.

Sd Wrecker. I doubt whether the boat can live
in this sea; but if there are any brave fellows willing
to hazard themselves for the good of the public, and
a double share, let them say ay.

Several Wreckers. I, I, I, I.

[The boat goes off, and comes under the ship's stern.]

Spokesman. So ho, the ship, ahoa!

Captain. Hulloa!

Sp. Would you have a pilot ?

Capt. No, no!

Sp. It blows hard, and you are in danger.

Capt. I know it.

1779] Benjamin Franklin 433

Sp. Will you buy a better cable? We have one
in the boat here.

Capt. What do you ask for it ?

Sp. Cut that you have, and then we '11 talk about
the price of this.

Capt. I shall do no such foolish thing. I have
lived in your parish formerly, and know the heads
of ye too well to trust ye; keep off from my cable
there; I see you have a mind to cut it yourselves.
If you go any nearer to it I 11 fire into you and sink
you.

Sp. It is a damned rotten French cable, and will
part of itself in half an hour. Where will you be
then, Captain ? You had better take our offer.

Capt. You offer nothing, you rogues, but treach-
ery and mischief. My cable is good and strong, and
will hold long enough to balk all your projects.

Sp. You talk unkindly, Captain, to people who
came here only for your good.

Capt. I know you came for all our goods, but, by
God's help, you shall have none of them; you shall
not serve us as you did the Indiamen.

Sp. Come, my lads, let 's be gone. This fellow
is not so great a fool as we took him to be.

DCCLI

TO JONATHAN WILLIAMS, JR.

Passy, 13 February, 1779.

Dear Uncle : — I have the pleasure of acquainting
you that the Congress have been pleased to honor

YOL. VU. 28.

434 The Works of [1779

me with the sole appointment to be their Minister
Plenipotentiary at this court, and I have just received
my credentials. This mark of public confidence is
the more agreeable to me as it was not obtained by
any solicitation or intrigue on my part, nor have I
ever written a syllable to any person, in or out of
Congress, magnifying my own services or diminish-
ing those of others.

William Greene, Esq., present Governor of the
State of Rhode Island, has sent me some bills of ex-
change, amounting to 1,080 livres, which he desires
may be laid out in the following articles: one piece
dark calico; one piece bedtick; best silk handker-
chiefs and linen do; Hollands, cambrics, muslins,
sewing silk, and one box of window glass, seven
inches by nine. I send you the commission, and de-
sire you to forward the things by the first good op-
portimity, drawing upon me for the money.

I am told you have laid aside your thoughts of
going to America for the present, so that you will
not have the opportunity you wished for of settling
your accounts there. No resolution has been yet
taken by the Commissioners here relating to your
proposition of settling them by arbitration at Nantes ;
and though I could now perhaps do by myself what
is necessary to finish the affairs in that way, yet as
the transactions were in their time, it seems to me
most proper that they should consent to it."
I am ever your affectionate cousin,

B. Franklin.

» This Jonathan Williams was the son of Grace Harris, a niece of Dr.
Franklin, and of the Jonathan Williams who presided at the meeting

1779] Benjamin Franklin 435

DCCLII

TO ARTHUR LEE

Passy, 1 8 February, 1779.

Sir: — I beg you will be pleased to send me by the
bearer all the public papers in yotir hands belonging
to this department.

I have the honor to be, etc.,

B. Franklin.

in Faneuil Hall, held immediately after the Boston massacre of March,
1770, at which resolutions were passed requiring the British armed
forces at Boston to be stationed in future outside the city. The year
following, 1 77 1, Jonathan WilUams, Jr., then about nineteen years of
age, was placed with his brother Josiah for a time under the care of
Dr. Franklin, in London. When Franklin was appointed Commis-
sioner of Congress near the coiirt of France, this young man, who was
in some sort of business at Nantes, was appointed Commercial Agent
of Congress in that city.

He married Marianne, a daughter of WiUiam Alexander, who was
bom in Scotland in 1730, and who died and was buried in Woodford
Co., Ky., on the farm of his son, the late Robert Alexander. Mrs.
WilHams' brother, afterwards Sir William Alexander, was appointed
Lord Chief Baron of England, January 9, 1824, and thereupon made
Privy Councillor and knighted. In January, 1831, he resigned in
favor of Lord Lyndhurst, died Jtme 29, 1842, and was buried in the
chapel of Roslin Castle.

Robert Alexander, a brother of Mrs. Williams, went over from
England to Paris in 1782 in charge of M. Monduit as his tutor, and
lived with Dr. Franklin at Passy in 1783 and 1784. A daughter of his
sister Isabella became the mother of the Earl of Bathtu-st.

Mr. Williams had a sister who became Mrs. Thomas Biddle, and the
mother of Clement, Thomas A., and Alexander Biddle, all of Phila-
delphia.

William Alexander, who was buried in Kentucky, was grandfather
of Mrs. General Francis P. Blair and of Apoline Alexander, who mar-
ried Mr. Thompson Hankey, of London, and at one time President of
the Bank of England.

Both as a relative and as an agent of Dr. Franklin's selection, young
Williams naturally became an object of aversion to Arthur Lee, who
endeavored to cast suspicion upon his accotmts. It is to these com-
plaints that allusion is here made. — Editor.

43^ The Works of [1779

DCCLIII

TO M. DUMAS

Passy, 19 February, 1779.

Dear Sir: — Since mine of the nth inst. I have
received an appointment from Congress to be their
sole Minister Plenipotentiary at this court, my former
colleagues having, or being likely to have, other
destinations.

I have had frequent conversations with your friend
concerning a loan in Holland. A fit of the gout has
interrupted them these two days, but his demands
appearing to be beyond my powers, I have not agreed
to them, and I question whether we can agree. I
fancy he has had some information of the purport of
some imprudent letter you know of, and that he
thinks our necessities greater than they are. I begin
to think it best to be obliged to one generous friend,
and to take the little aids we want from France only.

The Marquis de Lafayette is arrived, covered with
laurels. He and his suite speak very handsomely of
the Americans and of the present condition of affairs.
All our letters from different persons in different
bodies, the Congress, the army, the government of
separate States, are full of his praises. By his brav-
ery and good conduct he appears to have gained the
esteem and the affection of that whole continent.

I am with sincere regard, etc.

1779] Benjamin Franklin 437

DCCLIV

FROM ARTHUR LEE

Chaillot, 21 February, 1779.

Sir: — Your grandson delivered to me, between
10 and 12 o'clock on the 19th, your letter dated the
1 8th, in which you desire I will send by the bearer
all the papers belonging to this department.

I have no papers belonging to the department of
Minister Plenipotentiary at the Court of Versailles.
But if you mean, sir, the papers relating to the trans-
actions of our late joint Commission, I am yet to
learn and cannot conceive on what reason or author-
ity any one of those who were formerly in that Com-
mission can claim or demand possession of all the
papers evidencing their transactions, in which, if
they should appear to have been equally concerned,
they are equally responsible.

Of these papers Mr. Deane, by his own account,
has taken and secured such as he chose. The rest, a
very few excepted, you have. Many of these I have
never even seen, but have been favored with copies,
Of the few originals in my possession there are, I
know, duphcates of the most part at Passy, because
it was for that reason only that I took them. The
rest are necessary evidence to answer Mr. Deane 's
accusations, which you know to be most base and
false that ever the malice and wickedness of man
invented.

If it were indeed agreed that all the papers be-
longing to our late Commission should be brought
together, numbered, docketed, and deposited where

438 The Works of [1779

the late Commissioners, and they only, might have
access to them, I would very readily contribute the
few I have. But on no other terms can I part with
them, and must therefore desire you to command
me in some other service.

Still, however, I am in the judgment of Congress,
and if upon our mutual representations, should you
think it worth troubling them with it, they should
be of a different opinion, I shall abide by their de-
cision and obey their orders.

I hope your gout is better, and have the honor to
be, etc., Arthur Lee.

DCCLV

TO DAVID HARTLEY

Passy, 22 February, 1779.

Dear Sir: — I received your proposition for re-
moving the stumbling-block. Your constant desire
of peace ought to endear you to both sides ; but this
proposition seems to be naturally impracticable. We
can never think of quitting a solid alliance, made and
ratified, in order to be in a state for receiving un-
known proposals of peace, which may vanish in the
discussion. The truth is, we have no kind of faith
in your government, which appears to us as insidious
and deceitful as it is unjust and cruel; its character
is that of the spider in Thomson,

" Cunning and fierce
Mixture abhorred! "

1779] Benjamin Franklin 439

Besides, we cannot see the necessity of our relin-
quishing our alliance with France in order to a treaty,
any more than of your relinquishing yours with Hol-
land. I am, very affectionately, yours,

N. A.^

DCCLVI

TO DAVID HARTLEY

Passy, 2 2 February, 1779.

Dear Sir: — I received your favor of Jan. 23d,
containing the answer you had received from the
board of sick and hurt, in which they say they are
taking measures for the immediate sending to
France the number of Americans first proposed to
be changed, etc. I have heard nothing since of the
measures taken. The prisoners grow more and more
uneasy with us. They are told that we neglect them.
We sent the passport required in September last.
We were soon after assured that a transport was actu-
ally taken up and victualled for one hundred men, to
be sent to France with so many prisoners. That
vessel has never appeared. We rely'd on the agree-
ment to exchange, and the promise of doing it
speedily. And we advised our people thereupon not
to attempt escapes. We seem to have been deceived
or trifled with ; but perhaps it is rather owing to the
multiplicity of business the board has on its hands,
and your important occupations not permitting you

I North America. The letter was written by Dr. Franklin, but
signed with these initials.

440 The Works of [1779

to follov/ it with such frequent soHcitation as are
necessary to keep up its attention to this particular
affair. I have therefore thought of sending over a
person for that purpose, impowering him to stipulate
readily, without the delay attending letters. By this
means I would save you some of that trouble which
your goodness and humanity might otherwise con-
tinue to lead you into. I would only desire you at
present to procure a safe conduct; his name is Ed-
ward Bancroft. He is a gentleman of character and
honor, who will punctually observe such restrictions
respecting his conduct when in England as it may be
thought reasonable to lay him under. If this is or is
not obtainable, I beg you will signify it by a line
directed for him at M. Leveaux's, merchant in Calais;
and that as soon as possible, that he may not be
fruitlessly detained long there in expectation of it.

DCCLVII

TO COUNT DE VERGENNES

Passy, 25 February, 1779.

As the enemy seem determined upon another cam-
paign, I beg leave to communicate and submit to
your Excellency's consideration some sentiments of
Congress on certain operations in North America,
which they conceive to be practicable and highly ad-
vantageous to the interests both of France and the
United States.

While the English continue to possess the ports of

1779] Benjamin Franklin 44i

Halifax, Rhode Island, and New York, they can—

1 . Refit the ships of war they employ in those seas.

2. Defend more easily their fishery, a great nursery
of seamen and source of wealth.

3. Interrupt more effectually by their cruisers the
commerce between France and America, which would
otherwise be so advantageous to both, and also the
supplies of provisions of various kinds, which the
French islands might draw from the continent.

Without a naval force, and in the present situation
of their finances, the reduction of some of those posts
must be extremely difficult, if not impossible.

If troops should be intended for the defence of
your sugar islands, and the reduction of those of the
enemy in the ensuing winter, it is supposed that a
part of them, four or five thousand, convoyed by four
ships of the line and a few frigates, might be advan-
tageously employed this summer — first, by reducing
(in conjunction with the troops of the Northern
States) Rhode Island. This, it is conceived, will re-
quire no long time, and being done, those States,
eased by that means, will find themselves at liberty to
afford some aid of men, transports, provisions, etc., in
reducing Halifax, and there is no reason to doubt
their hearty good- will to concur in such an enterprise,
the success of which would free their coasts from the
grievous restraints under which both their commerce
and their fisheries at present labor. The inhabitants
of Nova Scotia, too, except those in the town of
Halifax, are known to be generally well affected
to the American cause, being mostly settlers who
formerly emigrated from New England.

442 The Works of [1779

Halifax being reduced, the small forts on New-
foundland would easily follow, and by this means the
enemy's fishery, not only for this year would be
broken up, but rendered so precarious from the inter-
ruptions by our armed vessels, or so expensive by the
force necessary to defend their fishermen, that it must
soon be discouraged, diminished, and at length aban-
doned; their naval strength, of course, much lessened,
and that of France in proportion augmented.

It is supposed that the troops, being after these
northern operations refreshed in New England, and
well supplied with fresh provisions, might proceed at
the approach of winter for the West Indies, in good
health, and fit for such service as may be required
there.

The Congress had thoughts of attacking Canada
this summer, and requesting some aid of ships and
men for that purpose; but as their paper-money is
not current in that country where hard money alone
can procure provisions, which must for want of such
money be brought at a vast expense from the United
States, and being salted is not so good for the men,
it is uncertain whether that expedition will be at-
tempted. There is, however, to encourage it, a good
disposition in the inhabitants, and if it succeeded, the
fur trade and a great vent for her manufactures
would be opened to France; her fisheries would be
more easily protected; and the frontiers of the
States being secured, their agriculture might again
be pursued in those parts, and the general strength
employed where the interest of the alliance might
require it.

1779] Benjamin Franklin 443

The Congress have made no mention to me of
their views with regard to New York. Perhaps
they hope that the enemy will abandon it, or that
they shall be able to reduce it by Gen. Washington's
army.

The Commissioners here had, before the treaty, the
honor of making, in a memorial to your Excellency,
the following proposition by order of Congress, viz. :
"That in case it is agreed that the conquest of the
British Sugar Islands be attempted, the United States
shall, on timely notice, furnish provisions for the ex-
pedition to the amount of two millions of dollars,
with six frigates manned, of not less than twenty-two
guns each, with such other assistance as may be in
their power, and as becoming good allies." As soon
as they shall be, by the aids above-mentioned, hap-
pily freed from the embarrassments occasioned by the
lodgments of the enemy on their coasts, it will be in
their power to assist much more amply in such an ex-
pedition than they can at present. And I may as-
sure your Excellency that they will do their utmost
to fulfil the expectations given by that memorial,
though the losses in their marine, and the deprecia-
tion of their currency since, may render it more
difficult.

I need not intimate to your Excellency the great
utility, if such joint operations or expeditions should
be agreed to, of appointing commanders of concili-
ating tempers, and, if possible, who know and esteem
each other, and are acquainted with both the lan-
guages. By this means the little misunderstandings
apt to arise between troops of different nations might

444 The Works of [1779

be prevented or soon removed, and thence a greater
probabihty of success in their enterprises.

I have the honor to be, with the utmost esteem and
respect, your Excellency's most obedient and most
humble servant, B. Franklin.

DCCLVIII

TO VERGENNES

Passy, 25 February, 1779.

Sir: — I received duly your Excellency's most
obliging letter of the 17th inst. I was then so ill
with the gout and a fever that I could neither write
nor think of any thing. This necessarily prevented
my attending at court to present my letters of cre-
dence on Tuesday last agreeable to his Majesty's
gracious permission ; but as the fit seems to be going
off, I hope that in two or three days I shall be able to
pay my respects to your Excellency at Versailles.

I thank your Excellency for your kind notice of the
affairs of Capt. McNeill.

I have ordered the Alliance frigate to prepare for
returning immediately to America, in order to convoy
thither about fifteen sail of ships going from Nantes.
As this ship is said to be an admirable swift sailer, I
mention her as an opportunity by which despatches
may probably go safely, if your Excellency should
think fit to write by her.

With the most perfect respect I have the honor to
be, etc., B. Franklin.

1779] Benjamin Franklin 445

DCCLIX

TO PATRICK HENRY, GOVERNOR OF VIRGINIA

Passy, 26 February, 1779.

Sir: — I had the honor of receiving your Excel-
lency's letter of March 3, 1778, by Captain Lemaire,
acquainting me that the State of Virginia has desired
Mr. William Lee, your agent, to procure a quantity of
arms and military stores, and requesting me to assist
him with my influence in obtaining them on credit.

Being glad of any opportimity of serving Virginia,
and showing my regard to the request of a person
whom I so highly esteem, and Mr. William Lee being
absent, I found immediately three different mer-
chants here, men of fortune, who were each of them
willing to imdertake furnishing the whole, and giving
the credit desired. But, Mr. Arthur Lee being un-
derstood to have taken the management of the affair
into his own hands, one of the three soon after refused
to have any thing to do with it; a second, whose
letter to me I enclose, apprehending difficulties from
Mr. Lee's temper, required my name and Mr. Adams'
to the agreement, which he supposes Mr. Lee did not
like, as his offer was not accepted. I know not why
the offer of the third was not taken. I was after-
wards not at all consulted in the business.

Poor Lemaire was sent about Germany to find
goods and credit, which consumed a great deal of
time to little purpose. Several of the manufacturers
wrote to me that they would furnish him on my
promise of payment. I referred them to Mr. Lee.
On his return, Mr. Lee and he differed about his

446 The Works of [1779

expenses. He complained frequently to me of Mr.
Lee's not supplying him with necessary subsistence,
and treating him with great haughtiness and inso-
lence. I thought him really attentive to his duty,
and not well used, but I avoided meddling with his
affairs, to avoid, if possible, being engaged in quar-
rels myself. Mr. Lee, in fine, contracted with
Messrs. Penet and Dacosta to supply great part of
the goods. They, too, have differed, and I have
several letters of complaints from those gentlemen;
but I cannot remedy them, for I cannot change Mr.
Lee's temper.

They have offered to send the things you want
which he has refused, on my account; but, not
knowing whether he has not provided them else-
where, or in what light he may look upon my con-
cerning myself with what he takes to be his business,
I dare not meddle, being charged by the Congress to
endeavor at maintaining a good understanding with
their other servants, which is, indeed, a hard task
with some of them. I hope, however, that you will
at length be provided with what you want, which
I think you might have been long since, if the affair
had not been in hands which men of honor and
candor here are generally averse to dealing with, as
not caring to hazard quarrels and abuses in the set-
tlement of their accounts.

Our public affairs at this court continue to go on
well. Peace is soon expected in Germany, and we
hope Spain is now near declaring against our ene-
mies. I have the honor to be, with great respect,
etc., B. Franklin.

1779] Benjamin Franklin 447

DCCLX

TO VERGENNES

Passy, 9 March, 1779.

Sir: — It is with great reluctance that I give your
Excellency any further troubles on the subject of a
loan of money. But the bearer, Mr. Grand, who is
much better acquainted with the nature and manner
of such operations than I am, being of opinion that
the sum we want might, with your permission and
coimtenance, be procured in France, I beg you would
be so good as to hear him upon the subject both of
the necessity of obtaining such a loan, and of the
means of accomplishing it.

I am ever, etc.,

B. Franklin.

DCCLXI

PASSPORTS FOR MORAVIAN VESSELS, AND FOR CAPTAIN
COOK '

10 March, 1779.

To All Captains and Commanders of Vessels of War,
Privateers, and Letters of Marque, Belonging to
the United States of America.

Gentlemen: — The religious society commonly
called the Moravian Brethren, having established a

I In the time of the American war, the Moravian Society in England
sent annually a vessel to their missionaries on the coast of Labrador.
The Secretary of the Society, Mr. Hutton, appHed to Dr. Franklin,
then American Minister in France, for a passport securing protection

448 The Works of [1779

mission on the coast of Labrador, for the conversion
of the savages there to the Christian rehgion, which
has already had very good effects in turning them
from their ancient practices of surprising, plimdering,
and murdering such white people, Americans and
Europeans, as, for the purpose of trade or fishery,
happened to come on that coast; and persuading
them to lead a life of honest industry, and to treat
strangers with humanity and kindness; and, it being
necessary for the support of this useful mission, that
a small vessel should go thither every year to furnish
supplies and necessaries for the missionaries and
their converts; which vessel for the present year is

a of about seventy-five tons, called the ,

whereof is master Captain

This is to request you that, if the said vessel
should happen to fall into your hands, you would
not suffer her to be plundered, or hindered in her
voyage, but on the contrary afford her any assistance

to that vessel against American crmsers. It was readily granted, and
renewed every year during the war.

When Captain Cook was expected soon to return from his last voyage
round the world, Dr. Franklin issued a passport of a similar kind for
protecting his vessel, in case it should be met by American cruisers.
This act was afterwards properly recognized. "When Cook's ' Voyage '
was printed," says W. T. Franklin, "the Admiralty Board sent a copy
of the work in three volumes quarto to Dr. Franklin, accompanied
with the elegant collection of plates, and a very polite letter from Lord
Howe, signifying that the present was made with the king's express
approbation."

One of the gold medals, struck by the Royal Society in honor of
Captain Cook, was likewise sent to Dr. Franklin. In the Life of Cap-
tain Cook, by Dr. Kippis, the author stated that Congress disapproved
and reversed the orders of Dr. Franklin ; but Dr. Kippis became after-
wards convinced of the error of this statement, and publicly acknow-
ledged it. — Sparks.

1779] Benjamin Franklin 449

she may stand in need of; wherein I am confident
your conduct will be approved by the Congress and
your owners.

Given at Passy, near Paris, this day of

B. Franklin.
Minister Plenipotentiary from the United States
of America at the Court of France.

P. S. — The same request is respectfully made to
the commanders of armed vessels belonging to France
and Spain, friends of the said United States.

B. Franklin.

To All Captains and Commanders of Armed Ships
Acting by Commission from the Congress of the
United States of America, now in War with
Great Britain.

Gentlemen : — A ship having been fitted out from
England before the commencement of this war, to
make discoveries of new coimtries in unknown seas,
under the conduct of that most celebrated navi-
gator. Captain Cook ; an undertaking truly laudable
in itself, as the increase of geographical knowledge
facilitates the communication between distant na-
tions, in the exchange of useful products and manu-
factures, and the extension of arts, whereby the
common enjoyments of human life are multiplied
and augmented, and science of other kinds increased
to the benefit of mankind in general; this is, there-
fore, most earnestly to recommend to every one of

VOL. VII. — 29.
The Works of [1779

you that, in case the said ship, which is now expected
to be soon in the European seas on her return, should
happen to fall into your hands, you would not con-
sider her as an enemy, nor suffer any plunder to be
made of the effects contained in her, nor obstruct
her immediate return to England, by detaining her
or sending her into any other part of Europe or to
America, but that you would treat the said Captain
Cook and his people with all civility and kindness,
affording them, as common friends to mankind, all
the assistance in your power, which they may happen
to stand in need of. In so doing you will not only
gratify the generosity of your own dispositions, but
there is no doubt of your obtaining the approbation
of the Congress, and of your own American owners.
I have the honor to be, etc.

At Passy, near Paris, this loth day of March, 1779.

B, Franklin,
Minister Plenipotentiary from the Congress of the
United States to the Court of France.

DCCLXII

TO MM. HILLS, PARKES, ADAMS, DEGGE, BUCKLEY, EL-
WOOD, AND WARREN, OFFICERS ON BOARD THE

"alliance"

Passy, ii March, 1779.

Gentlemen: — I received your letters of the 7th of
February and 2d of March. The application to me
either for advance of cash or payment of wages to
officers in the Continental service is quite irregular,

1779] Benjamin Franklin 45 1

as I am neither furnished with money nor authority
for such purposes. And I beUeve it is the constant
practice with all maritime powers to pay the ships
in their service at home on their return, and not m
foreign countries. I am sensible, however, of some
hardships in your present circumstances relative
to the high price of clothing in America, and as
I respect your zeal for your country and readiness to
engage in its defence, and hope I shall on those
accounts be excused in doing it, I have this day, in a
letter to the agent at Nantes, given leave to advance
to each of you, and also to the warrant officers, a
decent suit of clothing, suitable to your respective
stations. But I must recommend it to you, and I
flatter myself that you will not take it amiss, to be as
frugal as possible for your own sakes, and not make
yourselves expensively fine from a notion that it is
for the honor of the States you serve. It seems not
necessary that young and poor States, laboring, as at
present, under the distresses of a most burdensome
war in defence of their liberties, should vie in the
dress of their officers with ancient and wealthy king-
doms who are in full prosperity. The honor of the
States will be better supported by the prudent con-
duct of their officers, their harmony with each other,
their ready obedience to the commands of superior
officers, their reasonable and kind treatment of in-
feriors, and, above all, their bravery in fight and
humanity to those they conquer. I am confident
that you, gentlemen, have the same sentiments. If
it should be in my power to do any thing further for
you before you go, it will give me pleasure. But ex-

452 The Works of [1779

pecting daily a great number of prisoners in exchange
from England, who will be in want of every thing,
and our funds here being low, I doubt it can be but
little. The greater advances made to the officers
of the Boston at Bordeaux by the agent, which you
mention as an example, were without orders from the
Commissioners here, and were much disapproved
when we saw the accoimts. I wish that something
handsome may fall into your hands on your return,
and that you may have a happy sight of your friends
and country. I am, gentlemen,

Your most obedient humble servant,

B. Franklin.

DCCLXIII

TO ARTHUR LEE

Passy, 13 March, 1779.

Sir: — Finding by a note of yours on the back of
Mr. Williams' accounts, dated October 6th, but
which I never saw till lately by accident, expressing
that you are "perfectly satisfied, from his own ac-
counts, that Mr. Williams has now, and has long
had, in his hands upwards of an hundred thousand
livres belonging to the public which have not been
employed in the public use," etc., I have resolved to
have those accounts carefully examined by impartial
persons, skilled in such business ; and if you have any
other objection to them than what appears in your
note, or any other reasons than what appears upon
the face of his accoimts, for believing such a sum in

1779] Benjamin Franklin 453

Mr. Williams' hands, I beg you will furnish me with
them, that I may communicate them to the exam-
iners. I wish justice to be done, and that you had
shown your note either to Mr. Adams or me when you
made it; the matter would not have been so long
neglected. The money, if due, ought to be recovered
immediately.

I have the honor to be, etc., B. Franklin.

P. S. — The persons I have requested to examine
the accounts are the American merchants now at
Nantes with our deputed commercial agent, Mr.
Schweighauser.

DCCLXIV

TO MESSRS. W. BLAKE, D. BLAKE, J. JOHNSON, P. R.

FENDALL, J. WHARTON, M. RIDLEY, I. ROSS,

LLOYD, — OGILVIE, AND J. D. SCHWEIGHAUSER,
MERCHANTS NOW AT NANTES

Passy, 13 March, 1779.

Gentlemen : — Great objections having been made
by the Honorable Mr. A. Lee to the accounts of Mr.
Jonathan Williams, late agent for the Commissioners
at Nantes, which are therefore yet unsettled; and,
as not being conversant in mercantile business, I can-
not well judge of them, and therefore, as well as for
other reasons, I did not and cannot undertake to ex-
amine them myself, and they may be better examined
at Nantes where the business was transacted than
either here or in America, I beg the favor of you,

454 The Works of [1779

gentlemen, that you would, for the sake of justice
and of the public good, take that trouble upon you
and make report to me thereupon ; which I do hereby
agree shall be conclusive and final (subject only to
the revision of Congress), in case Mr. Williams shall
previously sign an engagement to abide thereby ; and
hoping you will comply with my request, I have
ordered him to lay his accoimts fully before you; and
I have requested the Honorable Mr. A. Lee, who
makes the objections, to furnish you with the same,
that, by having the whole in view, you may be able
to form an equitable judgment.

I have the honor to be with great respect, etc.,

B. Franklin.

DCCLXV

TO HONORABLE ARTHUR LEE, ESQ.

Passy, 13 March, 1779.

Sir: — A severe fit of the gout, with too much
business at the same time necessary to be done, has
prevented till now my answering yours of the 21st
past.

I did not imagine there would have been any differ-
ence of sentiment between us concerning the pro-
priety of returning to me the papers which you have
at various times taken from this house. Where
several persons joined in the same commissions are
to act upon papers, it seems necessary that they
should be lodged in one place, where all the parties
may be sure of finding them, and under the care of

1779] Benjamin Franklin 455

one person who should be accountable for them.
And if there were not some particular reasons to
influence another choice, I should suppose the first
person named in the commission might with great
propriety take charge of them, I am sure that if
you had been that person, I should have made no
objection to it. Mr. Adams having a room more
convenient and more private than mine, and in which
he lodged, I approved of his keeping the papers ; he
has voluntarily returned me all he had without ask-
ing, and I thought asking was only necessary to ob-
tain the rest from you ; for the whole business, which
before was transacted by us jointly, being now de-
volved on me, and as there must be frequent occa-
sion to look back on letters received, memorials
delivered, accounts given in, contracts made, etc.,
etc., which, if I cannot have the opportunity of
doing, I must be frequently at a loss in future trans-
actions. I did not imagine I should have any diffi-
culty in obtaining them; nor had I the least idea
that my asking for them would occasion any dispute.
I suppose that the papers Mr. Deane mentions to
have taken and secured were those only that related
to his separate commercial transactions for the pub-
lic before his appointment with us in the political
commission. If he took away any of the papers we
were jointly concerned in, I conceive he was wrong
in doing so, and that his doing wrong would not
justify the rest of us in following his example. I
can have no desire to deprive you of any paper that
ma}^ be of use to you in answering Mr. Deane 's ac-
cusations, having no concern in them nor interest

456 The Works of Benjamin Franklin [1779

in supporting them. On the contrary, if any papers
remaining in my hands can be of such use to you,
you are welcome to have authenticated copies of
them (which shall on request be made out for you),
as well as of any others " evidencing our joint trans-
actions" which you may desire. On the whole it
seems to me that this matter may be reasonably
settled by your keeping, if you please, all those
originals of which there are duplicates at Passy,
retaining for a time such of the rest as you desire to
copy, which copies, being compared by us with the
originals, may be authenticated by our joint signa-
tures; and returning immediately all the others,
docketed and catalogued, as you please, so as that
you may know what and where they are, and call
for a copy of any of them you may hereafter have
occasion for, which shall always be given you.

If these propositions are agreed to, the affair may
soon be settled; if not, I must wait the orders of
Congress, and in the meantime do as well as I can
with their business, which, I think, must often suffer
by my want of the knowledge those papers might
occasionally furnish me with.

I have the honor to be with great respect, etc.,

B. Franklin.

END OF VOLUME VII.

ill

iiii


===== Benjamin Franklin - Founders Online (complete) + Works of Benjamin Franklin (Sparks, 10 vols, PD) (vol. 8) =====
Source: https://archive.org/download/worksofbenjaminf08fran/worksofbenjaminf08fran_djvu.txt

Ill'lllllllll lll.l

3 3433 08173750 8

THE
NEW YORK PUBLIC LIBRARY

The Amy Angell Collier Montague

AND Gilbert H. Montague

Collection

-^ If -^A ^L

I/IVV

FEDERAL EDITION
Limited to i,000 signed and numbered sets.

The Collector's Federal Edition of the Writings
of Benjamin Franklin is limited to six hundred
signed and numbered sets, of which this is

Number ,

We guarantee that no limited, numbered edition,
other than the Federal, shall be printed from these
plates.

The written number must correspond with the
perforated number at top of this page.

V' Benjamin FrarfllRrti ^ii i?

From C. W. Peale's copy of the portrait ])y David Martin

tn

(Kuj^ltre llalutni*&

^tbtrni ^biiian

The Works of

Benjamin Franklin

Including the Private as well as the
Official and Scientific Correspondence

Together with
The Unmutilated and Correct Version of the Autobiography

Compiled and Edited
by

John Bigelow

" Stiiange that Ulysses does a thousand things so well." — Iliad, B. i i, 335

Volume VIII

G. P. Putnam's Sons
New York and London
Zbc IRnickerbocftec press
Zbc TRnicfierbocftet press, mew Borft

CONTENTS OF VOLUME VIII
DCCLXVL— To Richard Oliver, Esq , March

14TH 3

A passport.
DCCLXVII. — To Jonathan Williams, March

i6th 4

Examination of Williams's accotmts.
DCCLXVIII.— To M. Joshua Johnson, March

17TH 6

About an exemption from duties.
DCCLXIX. — To Montaudoin, March 17TH . 8
DCCLXX.— To M. Dumas, March i8th . 8

Loan in Holland — Return of Mr.
Adams — Arthur Lee.
DCCLXXI. — To Jonathan Williams, March

19TH ..... 10
His accounts and Arthur Lee.
DCCLXXII. — To David Hartley, March 2ist 12
DCCLXXIII. — To THE Marquis de Lafayette,

March 220 .... 14
On the methods of harassing Eng-
land by sea.
DCCLXXIV.— To Arthur Lee, March 27TH . 16
Mr. Williams's accounts.
DCCLXXV.— To Arthur Lee, March 27TH . 18
More difficulties and discontent.

DCCLXXVL— To Sayre, March 31ST . 19

Disposition of the Swedish court —
Unanimity of the colonists for independ-
ence—Depreciation of the currency.

iv Contents of Volume VIII

PAGE

DCCLXXVII.— To William Lee, April 2D .21
Supplies of amis.
DCCLXXVIIL— To John Adams, April 3D . 22

DCCLXXIX. — To Joshua Johnson. April 8th 23
DCCLXXX.— To Jonathan Williams, April

8th ..... 24

DCCLXXXI. — To John Adams, April 2ist . . 26
About the relief of the prisoners in
England.
DCCLXXXIL— To John Quincy Adams, April

21ST ..... 27

DCCLXXXIIL— To Josiah Quincy, April 22D . 28
Character of the French people —
Too many superfluities purchased in
America.

DCCLXXXIV. — To Samuel Cooper, April 220 . 30
The depreciation of American paper-
money.
DCCLXXXV. — From David Hartley, April 220 32
Proposing a truce — A basis of ne-
gotiation.
DCCLXXXVI.— To John Adams, Esq., April

24TH ..... 40
DCCLXXXVII.— To John Paul Jones, April 27TH 41
Plan of an expedition in which the
Marquis de Lafayette was to join.

DCCLXXXVIII. — Instructions to John Paul
Jones, Commander of the
American Squadron in the
Service of the United
States, now in the Port of
L'Orient .... 44

DCCLXXXIX. — Memorial of Arthur Lee, May

1ST ..... 46

DCCXC— To Arthur Lee, May 30 . .58
DCCXCL— To Thomas Viny, May 4TH . 59

DCCXCIL— To Mrs. Patience Wright, May

4TH ..... 60

DCCXCIIL— To David Hartley, May 4TH . 62

Contents of Volume VIII v

PAGE

DCCXCIV.— To Lloyd, May 4TH . . 65

DCCXCV.— To John Adams, May ioth . 66

Good news from Holland.

DCCXCVI.— To General Beckwith, May

17TH ..... 67

Discouraging his joining the Ameri-
can army.
DCCXCVII. — To the Committee on Foreign

Affairs, May 26th . . 69

Receives his credentials as Minister
Plenipotentiary — Presented to the
king — Paul Jones — Necker — Lee and
Izard — Consuls — Barbary powers —
Spain — France.

DCCXCVIII. — To Sir Edward Newenham, May

27TH ..... 85
Irish emigration to the United
States.

DCCXCIX.— To , June ist . . 86

Appeals to France for a million loan.

DCCC. — To James Lovell, June 2d . 87
Currency — Charges of Lee and Izard.

DCCCI. — To Horatio Gates, June 2d . 90
Chevalier de Raymondis — Capitu-
lation of Saratoga — Dissensions in
America.
DCCCII. — To the Marine Committee of

Congress, June 2d . . 91

DCCCIII. — To Richard Bache, June 2D . 94
Respecting persons attempting to in-
jure him — His grandsons.

DCCCIV. — To Charles Carroll, Esq., of

Carrollton, June 2d . -97
Chevalier de la Luzerne — Sending
artisans to America.

DCCCV. — To Mrs. Sarah Bache, June 3D, 98

DCCCVI. — To Francis Hopkinson, June 4Th 102
DCCCVII. — To William Greene, Governor

of Rhode Island, June . 103

no

vi Contents of Volume VIII

PAGB

DCCCVIII. — To Honorable the Council of
THE Massachusetts Bay, June

4TH 104

Lafayette — Chevalier de Raymondis
— Chevalier de la Ltizeme.
DCCCIX. — To John Jay, June qth . . 106

The lack of hard money for taking
Canada.
DCCCX.— To Mr. Bache (His Son-in-Law)

June qth .... 107

DCCCXI.— To Messrs. J. Rocquette, I.
Elsvier, and Brothers Roc-
quette, June 13TH . . 109
As to the value of United States
notes.
DCCCXII.— To M. Ar. Gillon, Comme., July

5TH

DCCCXIIL— To Jonathan Willi ams, July 8th i i i

DCCCXIV.— To John Paul Jones, July 8th . 112

DCCCXV.— To Jonathan Williams . .113

DCCCXVI.— To Mr. Dubourg, August 13TH 114

DCCCXVn.— To the Marquis de Lafayette,

August iqth . . . • nS

DCCCXVIII. — To Mr. Digges, August 2oth . 116

Captain Conyngham.
DCCCXIX.— To the Marquis de Lafayette,

August 24TH . . . • 117

Forwarding a sword in the name of
Congress.

DCCCXX.— To Mr. Charles Epp, August

27TH 117

Reasons for not going to America.
DCCCXXI.— From the Marquis de Lafay-
ette, August 29TH . . 118
Acknowledging the sword.
DCCCXXII.— To Mr. Schweighauser, Septem-
ber 17TH . . • • 119
DCCCXXIIL— To Count de Vergennes, Sep-
tember 26TH . . . • 122

Contents of Volume VIII vii

PAGE

DCCCXXIV. — To Mr. Nesbit, September 29TH 123

Captain Conjnigham's imprisonment.

DCCCXXV. — To James Lovell, September

30TH 124

DCCCXXVI.— To Arthur Lee, Esq., Septem-
ber 30TH . . . .125

DCCCXXVII. — To THE Marquis de Lafayette,

October ist . . . .126
On copper coinage in the United
States.

DCCCXXVin. — To Edward Bridgen, October

2D 127

DCCCXXIX. — To John Jay, President of Con-
gress, October 4TH . .129
Beaumarchais's accounts — Proposed
loan — Holland, England, Portugal —
Prisoners — Complaints of French offi-
cers.

DCCCXXX. — To John Paul Jones, October

ISTH 140

Capture of the Serapis — Landais.

DCCCXXXL — To Honorable Captain Lan-
dais, October 15TH . . 142

DCCCXXXII. — To Honorable the Commission-
ers OF THE Navy for the
Eastern Department, Bos-
ton, October 17TH . . 143
The American squadron's achieve-
ments under Paul Jones — Prizes taken.

DCCCXXXHL — To James Lovell, October 17TH 146
Jones's cruise — Lee and Deane —
Prizes taken by Jones.

DCCCXXXIV. — To Austin, October 2oth . 149

DCCCXXXV. — To Mr. Stadel, October 20TH . 150
The Minister without authority for
enlisting troops in France.

viii Contents of Volume VIII

PAGE

DCCCXXXVI. — To THE Commercial Committee
OF Congress, Phila., October
2IST ..... 150

Caution not to draw on the Minister
without authority.
DCCCXXXVIL— To a Friend in America, Octo-
ber 25TH .... 151
His situation in France.
DCCCXXXVIII.— To Samuel Cooper, October

27TH ..... 152
American privateers — Rumors of
peace.
DCCCXXXIX.— To Mr. Holker, October 28th . 155
DCCCXL. — To Messrs. Fizeaux and Grand,

October 29TH . . . 155

Advises them of eight boxes of print-
ing type to be shipped for him.
DCCCXLI. — To Benjamin Vaughan, Novem-
ber 9TH ..... 156
On his editions of Franklin's Works.
DCCCXLIL— To John Baptist Beccaria, No-
vember 19TH .... 158
DCCCXLIII.— To Captain Conyngham, No-
vember 22D .... 159
His escape — Prize-money.
DCCCXLIV. — To R. Bernstorff, Minister of
Foreign Affairs in Den-
mark, December 22D . . 160
DCCCXLV. — From Captain Conyngham, De-
cember 22D .... 164
His account of his imprisonment and
escape.
DCCCXLVI.— To Joshua Johnson, December
29TH . , . . .
1780

DCCCXLVII.— To W. Strahan, January 24TH . 168
DCCCXLVIII.— To Charles W. F. Dumas, Janu-
ary 27TH .... 168

Contents of Volume VIII ix

PAGE

DCCCXLIX.— To David Hartley, February

2D 169

America will not treat for a peace
without her allies — Franklin offers to
pay for all the tea destroyed in Boston
harbor — British barbarities in America
— Proposal to make a school-book of
them with illustrations.
DCCCL. — To Richard Price, February

6th 173

Urging the discovery of a plan that

would oblige nations to settle their

disputes without first cutting one

another's throats.

DCCCLI. — To Joseph Priestley, February

8th 174

True science and its progress — Re-
gret that moral science was not making
like progress, so that men would cease
to be wolves — Inconveniences incident
to all situations in life.
DCCCLII.— To M. de Sartine, February

13TH 177

American prisoners in England —
Urging an exchange for English prison-
ers brought into France.
DCCCLIIL— To John Paul Jones, February

19TH 179

Extraordinary expenses in Holland.

DCCCLIV.— To Col. Fleury, February

26TH 181

Touching the extension of his fur-
lough.
DCCCLV. — From the Marquis de Lafay-
ette, February 29TH . . 181
Arms and clothing for American
troops.
DCCCLVI.— To Louis XVL, March . . 183
Asks for a vessel to transport cloth-
ing for 1,500 soldiers to America.

X Contents of Volume VIII

PAGE

DCCCLVII. — To THE Marquis de Lafayette,

March 2D . . . . 185
Arms and equipment for the army.

DCCCLVIII. — To Samuel Huntington, Presi-
dent OF Congress, March 4TH 187
Seizxire of prizes in Norway — Jones
and Landais — Importance of appoint-
ing a consul — Exchange of prisoners —
Prospects of England.

DCCCLIX. — To General Gates, March 5TH . 192
General Burgoyne's book.

DCCCLX. — To George Washington, March

5TH 193

Lafayette — Invitation to Europe.

DCCCLXI. — To THE Chevalier de la Lu-
zerne, March 5TH . . . 194
Malesherbes — Spain — Great states.

DCCCLXn. — To Francis Hopkinson, March

6th 196

Dr. Ingenhousz's newly invented
telescope.

DCCCLXin. — From R. Bernstorff, Minister
of Foreign Affairs in Den-
mark, March 8th . . . 197

DCCCLXIV.— To Captain Landais, March

I2TH ..... 199

Refusing his request to be restored to
the command of the Alliance — Gives
his opinion of him with frankness.

DCCCLXV. — To James Lovell, March i6th . 201

DCCCLXVL — To the President of Congress,

March i6th .... 203
Introducing Thomas Hutchins.

DCCCLXVIL— To Thomas Bond, March i6th . 204
How to keep young.

DCCCLXVin. — To Samuel Cooper, March i6th 205
An alliance with France encouraged.

Contents of Volume VIII xi

PAGE

DCCCLXIX.— To Cyrus Griffin, March i6th 206
French hospitality.

DCCCLXX.— To John Paul Jones, March

i8th ..... 207

Prize-money.
DCCCLXXI. — To Joseph Reed, President of

Pennsylvania, March 19TH . 209
Introducing the Chevalier Chastellux.

DCCCLXXII. — To Joseph Reed, March iqth . 209
Mr. Pulteney — Errors corrected —
Arthur Lee.

DCCCLXXIIL— To M. de Sartine, March 2oth . 215
Declines to ask Congress to erase
Capt. Landais from its list of naval
oflficers — Refers him to a court-martial
in America.

DCCCLXXIV.— To Charles W. F. Dumas, March

29TH ..... 217
DCCCLXXV.— To Charles W. F. Dumas,

March 30TH .... 218
DCCCLXXVL— To John Ross, April 22D . . 219
DCCCLXXVII.— To Charles W. F. Dumas,

April 230 .... 221

Rebxikes his suspicions.
DCCCLXXVIII.— To THE Judges of the Admi-
ralty, AT Cherbourg, May
i6th ..... 222

DCCCLXXIX.— To THE Count de Vergennes,

May i6th .... 224

Relating to an exchange of prisoners.

DCCCLXXX. — To THE Officers of the Admir-
alty OF Vannes, May iSth . 227
DCCCLXXXI. — From La Rochefoucauld d'En-

viLLE, May 22D . . . 227
Introducing Albert Gallatin.
DCCCLXXXII. — To THE President op Congress,

May 22D ..... 228
Recommending Baron d'Arendt.

xii Contents of Volume VIII

PAGE

DCCCLXXXIII. — From Samuel Cooper, May 230 . 229
Services of a French frigate — The
French alliance — Covint d'Estaing.

DCCCLXXXIV. — ^To an Agent for American

Cruisers, May 30TH . . 231
Free ships make free goods.

DCCCLXXXV. — To the President of Congress,

May 31ST .... 232

Troubles with the ships and over-
drafts— Captures of neutral vessels —
The rule of European powers — Unpopu-
larity of the English government in
Europe — Exchange of prisoners.

DCCCLXXXVL— To the President of Congress,

June ist .... 239

Recommending Commodore Jones.

DCCCLXXXVIL— To Robert Morris, June 30 . 239
European affairs — Neutral rights.

DCCCLXXXVIII.— To MM. de Neufville & Son,

June 4TH .... 240
DCCCLXXXIX.— To Charles W. F. Dumas, June

5TH ..... 241

Neutral ships — Private property in
time of war — General Clinton.

DCCCXC— To MM. de Neufville & Son,

June 6th . . . 244

DCCCXCI. — To Capt. Landais, June 7TH . 245
DCCCXCII. — To Lieutenant James Degge, of
the Ship "Alliance," and
others, June 7TH . . . 246
Prize-money disputes — Captain Lan-
dais's caprices.
DCCCXCIIL— To John Jay, June 13TH . . 250
The seals of his letters broken —
Print of Dr. Franklin.
DCCCXCIV.— To Mr. Wharton, June 17TH . 253
Clinton's letters — The Lord George
Gordon riots — Lord Mansfield — Capt.
Landais 's quarrels.

Contents of Volume VIII xiii

PAGE
DCCCXCV.— To William Carmichael, June

17TH 255

Sir John Dalrymple — Lafayette riots
in London — Madame de Brillon.

DCCCXCVL— To Commodore Jones, June

17TH 259

Withdraws order to receive Arthur
Lee on board his ship as passenger.

DCCCXCVII. — To John Fothergill, June 19TH 260
DCCCXCVIIL— To Charles W. F. Dumas, June

22D .....

DCCCXCIX. — To M. Van der Ouder Meulen,

June 22D .... 262

Proposal for a shipping company for
the American trade.

DCCCC. — To M. DE Rayneval, June 24TH . 263
In reference to a proposal to land
4,000 troops in the west of England.

DCCCCI. — To Mr. Digges, June 25TH . 265

Declines to receive a medal from
Congress if procured by solicitation —
Declines to sit for his portrait — Provi-
sion for American prisoners in England
— Mr. Hartley's efforts for peace.

DCCCCIL— To Jonathan Williams, June

27TH 267

Plagued almost to death with the
passions, vagaries, ill-humors, and mad-
nesses of other people.

DCCCCIII.— To M. DE Sartine, June 27TH . 268
The Fair Play indemnity.

DCCCCIV. — From Count de Vergennes,

June 30TH .... 269
American paper-money in the hands
of foreigners.

DCCCCV. — To Commodore Jones, July 5TH 271

How to become a great captain.

xiv Contents of Volume VIII

PAGE

DCCCCVI. — To Count de Vergennes, July

loTH ..... 272
Foreign merchants ought not to
suffer from the depreciation of Ameri-
can paper-money.

DCCCCVII. — To Alexander Small, July 220 273
A panacea for the gout.
DCCCCVIIL— To Charles W. F. Dumas, July

26TH ..... 275

The capture of Charleston — Jones
and Landais again.

DCCCCIX. — To Count de Vergennes, Aug-
ust 3D .... . 277

The indiscretion of Mr. Adams.
DCCCCX.— To THE President of Congress,

August qth .... 278
Disputes of Jones and Landais — The
French court offended with Mr. Adams
— Vergennes declines further official in-
tercourse with him — Armed neutrality
of Europe proposed by Russia — Free
ships make free goods.

DCCCCXI. — To James Lovell, August ioth . 286

Newspaper secrets.
DCCCCXII. — To Mr. Schweighauser, August

IOTH ..... 288

Debts improperly contracted by
Landais.
DCCCCXIIL— To John Paul Jones, August

I2TH ..... 291

DCCCCXIV.— To Mr. and Mrs. West, August

i6th 293

DCCCCXV. — To the Count de Vergennes,

September 7TH . . . 293
Proposes that the consular conven-
tion with France be negotiated in the
United States.
DCCCCXVI. — Memoire de M. Franklin, Sep-
tember 26TH .... 295
Enclosing an etat des fonds.

Contents of Volume VIII xv

PAGE

DCCCCXVIL— To Charles W. F. Dumas, Oc-
tober 2D .... 297
Relative to his appointment and
services.

DCCCCXVIII.— To John Jay, October 2D . 299

About the money needed to meet the
drafts of Congress.

DCCCCXIX. — To John Adams, October 2d . 302

Prospects at home.
DCCCCXX. — To John Adams, October 8th . 304

Anxiety about Mr. Laurens — Strait-
ened for money — Suggests that Mr.
Adams write the Cotmt de Vergennes a
letter to efface vinpleasant impressions.

DCCCCXXI. — To Miss Georgiana Shipley,

October 8th .... 305
Her translations of Horace — Her
portrait of the good bishop.

DCCCCXXII.— To Charles W. F. Dumas. Octo-
ber 9TH ..... 307
Recommends Dtrnias as secretary to
Mr. Laurens.
DCCCCXXIII. — To Thomas Ruston, October 9TH 308
American finance and paper-money.

DCCCCXXIV. — To Richard Price, October 9TH 310

DCCCCXXV. — Dialogue between Franklin

AND the Gout, October 22D . 312

DCCCCXXVI. — From John Adams, November

4TH 320

Asking FrankHn to pay bills drawn
on Mr. Laiirens.

DCCCCXXVIL— To Sir Grey Cooper, November

7TH 321

Requests relief for Mr. Laurens, a
prisoner in the Tower.

DCCCCXXVIII. — To Edward Nairne, November

13TH 323

A slowly sensible hygrometer for cer-
tain purposes.

xvi Contents of Volume VIII

PAGE

DCCCCXXIX.— To Count de Vergennes, No-
vember 22D .... 330
De Chaumont's claims — Wishes no
more drafts drawn by Congress without
funds sent to meet them.

DCCCCXXX.— From Count de Vergennes, No-
vember 26TH .... 330

DCCCCXXXI. — Extract from the Instructions
TO B. Franklin, Minister
Plenipotentiary, November
28TH 331

DCCCCXXXII. — From John Adams, November

30TH 333

Affairs in Holland.

DCCCCXXXII!.— To Mr. Searle, November 30TH 335
Arnold's treason.

DCCCCXXXIV.— To THE President of Congress,

December 2D . . . . 336
Advises the furnishing of the French
troops with provisions in America.

DCCCCXXXV. — To James Lovell, December 2D 337
Embarrassed by "bills extraordi-
nary ' ' drawn by Congress.

DCCCCXXXVL— To Rev. Dr. Cooper, December

2D 338

Governor Hancock — The insanity of
Landais and Lee.

DCCCCXXXVIL— To Charles W. F. Dumas, De-
cember 3d ... . 340

DCCCCXXXVIII.— To the President of Congress,

December 30 . . . . 341
The capture of Laurens — Memorial
of Sir Joseph Yorke — Delay of supplies
— Capture of a Portuguese ship by an
American cruiser.

Contents of Volume VIII xvii

PAGE

DCCCCXXXIX.— To Mr. Jonathan Williams, De-
cember 27TH .... 344
De Chaumont's embarrassments — A
caution.

DCCCCXL. — Fragment op a Diary . . 34S
DCCCCXLI. — From Samuel Huntington,
President of Congress, Jan-
uary 1ST .... 356
Instructions to procure a further
loan.

DCCCCXLII.—From M. de Marbois, January

4TH 362

Exertions of Mrs. Bache to obtain
supplies for American soldiers.

DCCCCXLIII.— To Benjamin Waterhouse, Jan-
uary i8th .... 364
The death of Dr. Fothergill.

DCCCCXLIV.— To Charles W. F. Dumas, Janu-
ary i8th .... 365
The English declare war against Hol-
land— Dictated by the spirit of rapine
— Friendly turn from Russia.

DCCCCXLV.— To Miss Georgiana Shipley . 367

Coldness of nights on the desert —
Pleasant reminiscences of Twyford —
Her picture of its inhabitants — Part of
journal, 1780-1781.

DCCCCXLVL— To David Barclay, February

I2TH
Death of Dr. Fothergill.

DCCCCXLVIL— To Sir Edward Newenham, Feb-
ruary I2TH .... 369
Passport for provision and clothing
sent to the West Indies.

xviii Contents of Volume VIII

PAGB

DCCCCXLVIII. — To Count de Vergennes, Feb-
ruary 13TH .... 371
Transmitting letter of Congress to
the king — Instructions of Congress —
Critical situation of affairs in America.

DCCCCXLIX.— To Count de Vergennes, March

6th 374

DCCCCL. — To Felix Nogaret, March 8th . 375
Complimentary verses.

DCCCCLI.— To M. de Rayneval, March

IITH 377

DCCCCLII. — To the President of Congress,

March i2th .... 378
A further loan to the United States
by France — The mediation of Russia
and Austria proposed — Franklin re-
quests to be relieved from his mission —
Recommends his grandson as secretary
to some legation.

DCCCCLIII. — To THE Board of Admiralty,

March 17TH .... 385
Account of the squadron and expedi-
tion of Paul Jones — Disposition of
prizes — Captain Landais.

DCCCCLIV. — To William Hodgson, April ist 393
Misconduct of Digges — Mediation.
DCCCCLV. — From Francis Dana, April 6th, 395

DCCCCLVI. — To Francis Dana, April 7TH 396

His Russian mission.

DCCCCLVII.— From John Adams, April ioth . 399

America's lack of credit in Holland.

DCCCCLVIII. — To William Carmichael, April

I2TH ..... 400

Franklin's enemies in America.

DCCCCLIX. — To John Adams, April 29TH . 403

DCCCCLX.— To THE Marquis Turgot, May

1ST 405

On a newly invented stove.

Contents of Volume VIII xix

PAGE

DCCCCLXL— To Charles W. F. Dumas, May

4TH ..... 406

A contribution for the gazetteer of
Ley den.
DCCCCLXIL— From Miss Georgiana Shipley,

May 6th .... 407

The good bishop — Sir John Pringle
— Dr. Priestley — Dr. Price.

DCCCCLXIII. — To Court de Gebelin, May 7TH, 409
Indian languages — Mariner's com-
pass.
DCCCCLXIV. — To THE Marquis de Lafayette,

May 14TH .... 411

Expedition against Arnold — British
policy — Colonel Laiorens.

DCCCCLXV. — To THE President of Congress,

May 14TH .... 419
Supplies — Exchange of prisoners —
English ministry.
DCCCCLXVI. — To Samuel Cooper, May 15TH . 422
New constitution of Massachusetts —
Maintenance of the clergy.

DCCCCLXVII.— To Francis Lewis, May i6th . 424
Financial emergencies.
DCCCCLXVIIL— To John Adams, May 19TH . 425

Duties on exports from America of
doubtful expediency — Franklin's one
point of agreement with his enemies.
DCCCCLXIX.— From Count de Vergennes,

June 8th .... 427

The French loan to be applied to the
purchase of supplies in France.
DCCCCLXX.— To Messrs. D. Wendorp and
Thomas Hope Heyhger,
June 8th .... 428
England the first piratical state in
the world.
DCCCCLXXL — From John Laurens, June qth . 429
Suggesting Wm. Temple Franklin's
appointment as Secretary of Legation.

XX Contents of Volume VIII

PAGE

DCCCCLXXII. — To THE President of Congress,

June iith .... 431
Requests Congress to authorize the
application of late loans to pay their
drafts.
DCCCCLXXIII. — To John Adams, June iith . 432
When expenses of foreign ministers
to be charged to the government.

DCCCCLXXIV.— From Samuel Huntington,
President of Congress, June

19TH 434

Communicating instructions for
negotiating a peace.
DCCCCLXXV.— To William Jackson, June 28TH 435
Stopping payment of money in Hol-
land.

DCCCCLXXVL— To David Hartley, June 30TH . 436

Declines to procure for him a pass-
port to Paris.
DCCCCLXXVII.— To William Jackson, July sth . 437
Reasons for suspending payments in
Holland.
DCCCCLXXVni.— To William Jackson, July 5TH . 438
DCCCCLXXIX.— To William Jackson, July 6th . 439
Further explanation of the suspen-
sion of payments in Holland.

DCCCCLXXX.— To Count de Vergennes, July

6th 443

Mistakes respecting American bills
of exchange corrected.
DCCCCLXXXI.— To William Jackson, July ioth 445
His impudence rebuked.

DCCCCLXXXII. — To the President op Congress,

July iith . . . . 448
Advising his retention of money.

CORRESPONDENCE

AND

MISCELLANEOUS WRITINGS

VOL. VIII. — I.

CORRESPONDENCE

AND

MISCELLANEOUS WRITINGS

DCCLXVI

TO RICHARD OLIVER, ESQ.

Passy, 14 March, 1779.

Dear Sir: — It will always be a pleasure to me to
do what may be agreeable to you. Inclosed is the
passport you desire. I wish you and your friends a
prosperous voyage, being ever with the sincerest
esteem, dear sir, etc, B. Franklin.

To All Captains and Commanders of Vessels of War,
Privateers, and Letters of Marque Belonging to
the United States of America.
Gentlemen: — I do hereby certify to you that I
have long and intimately known the bearer, Richard
Oliver, Esq., member of Parliament, and late Alder-
man of London, and have ever found him a sincere
and hearty friend to the cause of Hberty and of

4 The Works of [1779

America, of which he has given many substantial
proofs on various occasions. Therefore, if by the
chance of war he should in his voyage from England
to the West Indies happen to fall into your hands, I
recommend him warmly, with the friends that may
accompany him, to your best civiHties, requesting
that you would afford your generous protection to
their persons, and favor them with their liberty when
a suitable opportunity shall offer. In this I am sure
your conduct will be approved by the Congress and
your employers, and you will much oblige (if that be
any motive), gentlemen.

Your most obedient and most humble servant,

B. Franklin.

At Passy, near Paris, this 14th day of March, 1779.

DCCLXVII

TO JONATHAN WILLIAMS

Passy, i6 March, 1779.

Dear Jonathan: — Agreeable to your desire, I
have requested the American gentlemen residing at
Nantes to examine your accounts. I have added
Mr. Schweighauser, he having been appointed by my
former colleagues to manage our affairs there, and
may be supposed interested particularly to do justice
to the Congress. And the others, I imagine, can
have no interest in favoring you, as perhaps you may
stand in their way respecting business. Inclosed
you have copies of my letter to the gentlemen, and
of another on the same business to Mr. Lee. If I

1779] Benjamin Franklin 5

had known of his going to Nantes I should have de-
sired him to state his objections to the accounts there,
but I did not hear of his being there till a day or two
before his return. I have yet no answer from him.

I showed your letter of February 20th, relating to
Mr. Simeon Deane's goods, to Mr. Adams, who
thought the proposition reasonable. I send by this
opportunity an order to Mr. Schweighauser to de-
liver to you the case which remains ; and if you will
send me the original invoice and the form of the bills
you propose, I shall sign and return them, — if no
objection arises on signing them that does not at
present occur to me.

I suppose you settled the affair yourself with Mer-
cier's agent, as he took the papers from me, saying that
he was going to Nantes. This was before I received
yours of February 23d, relating to that business.

I received the bond for Collas' commission.

The following bills, drawn before the 12th of De-
cember in favor of William Denine, were presented
and accepted on the 19th of February last, viz.:
dollars 600, 12, 600, 30, 120, 12, 120, — in all i494
dollars. These may possibly be a part of those you
mention. I shall order payment to be stopped till
I have examined the indorsements, though I am
not sure that I can well refuse payment after having
accepted them. We shall strictly examine such
drafts in favor of Denine as may appear hereafter,
till you let us know further.

I return Dr. Cooper's letter, with thanks to you
for communicating it. I am much obliged to that
good man for his kind expressions of regard to me.

6 The Works of [1779

The tobacco which came in the Bergbre, and all the
tobacco which comes to us from America, is to be
delivered directly out of the ships to the agents of
the farmers-general, in the ports where it arrives.
I had sent orders accordingly before the receipt of
your notice of her arrival.

I am ashamed of the orders of my countrymen for
so much tea, when necessaries are wanting for cloth-
ing and defending!

I have been long ill and unfit to write or think of
writing, which occasioned my omitting to answer
before your several letters since the i6th of February.
I omitted, also, answering a kind letter from Mr.
Ridley, who, I suppose, is now gone. If not, pre-
sent my respects to him and best wishes of a pro-
sperous voyage and happy sight of his friends. I am
getting better and hope our correspondence will now
be more regular.

I am ever your affectionate uncle,

B. Franklin.

DCCLXVIII

TO M. JOSHUA JOHNSON

Passy, 17 March, 1779.

Sir: — I received the honor of yours of the 6th
inst. I took the first opportimity of speaking to
M. D'Arlincourt, fils, one of the farmers-general in
whose department you reside, on the subject of your
furniture, who told me very politely that, as it was a
matter in which I interested myself, he would order

1779] Benjamin Franklin 7

the duties, if they had been received, to be returned.
By our treaty we are only entitled to such advantage
respecting duties as is enjoyed by the most favored
nations. I have not yet been able to obtain a certain
knowledge of the duties paid by other nations in
France, and I am told it is not easy to obtain, as they
are very different in the different provinces, and there
is not, as in England, a printed book of them. So,
not being enough informed at present to claim your
exemption as a right, I was obliged to accept it as a
favor. But these sort of favors I shall find a diffi-
culty in asking hereafter, for, the States being under
great obligations to the farmers-general, who lent us
money in our distress, and having often occasion to
ask aids from this government, one can hardly, with
any grace, demand at the same time in favor of par-
ticulars an exemption from paying their share of the
duties whence only the ability of affording such aids
can arise.

I have ordered the Alliance to be got ready as
soon as possible. The execution depends on Mr.
Schweighauser and the captain. I thank you for
your information relating to the Berghe. Orders
had before been given relating to her cargo.

With great esteem, I have the honor to be, sir,
your most obedient and most humble servant,

B. Franklin.

P. S. — If you can by any means obtain an account
of the duties to be paid by different nations in your
port, I shall be obliged to you for it, and will pay any
expense necessary for copying, etc.

8 The Works of [1779

DCCLXIX

TO MONTAUDOIN

Passy, 17 March, 1779.

Dear Sir: — I received your favor of the 4th inst.
by M. David with much pleasure, as it informed me
of the welfare of friends I love, and who are indeed
beloved by everybody. I thank you for your kind
congratulations, and for the prayers you use in my
behalf. Though the form is heathen, there is a good
Christian spirit in it, and I feel myself very well dis-
posed to be content with this world, which I have
found hitherto a tolerably good one, and to wait for
heaven (which will not be the worse for keeping)
as long as God pleases. I don't complain much,
even of the gout, which has harassed me ever since
the arrival of the commission you so politely men-
tion. There seems, however, some incongruity in a
plenipotentiary who can neither stand nor go.

With the sincerest esteem, respect, and affection, I
am, etc., B. Franklin.

DCCLXX

TO M. DUMAS ■=

Passy, i8 March, 1779.

Dear Sir: — I received duly yours of the 3d in-
stant. My indisposition seems to be wearing off,
and I hope will permit me to go abroad in a few days.

^Agent of the colonies in Holland.

1779] Benjamin Franklin 9

M. Neufville's first propositions were so much out
of the way that I could not accept them. He re-
quired a fifth part of the loan to be sent over to
him annually during the first five years in the pro-
duce of America for sale, and the money to remain
in his hands as a fund for paying off the debt in the
last five years. By this means he would have had
the use of our money while we were paying interest
for it. He dropped this demand on my objecting to
it, and undertook to procure a subscription on rea-
sonable terms. I wish him success; but as the
English give at present higher interest than I am
permitted to offer, I have little dependence on that
subscription. Let me know what you hear of it from
time to time.

Mr. Adams is gone to Nantes to take his passage
for America in one of our frigates. Mr. A. Lee has
retired from Chaillot to Paris, and his brother has
come on a visit from Frankfort. He talks of a Con-
gress to be held in Germany, and seems to want me
to advise his attendance there incognito. I know
nothing of it, and, therefore, can give no advice
about it. He talks of 20,000 men at liberty by the
German peace to be hired by the EngUsh against
us, and would be employed in preventing it. What
do you think or learn of these circumstances ?

The present situation of affairs in your country is
interesting. Unacquainted as I am with your par-
ties and interests, I find it difficult to perceive how
they will terminate. [Incomplete.]

lo The Works of [1779

DCCLXXI

TO JONATHAN WILLIAMS

Passy, 19 March, 1779.

Dear Nephew : — In your receipts for M. Mon-
thieu's copper there is mention made of copper ore.
Explain this to me ; for as we bought no copper ore
of him, and as it is not so valuable as copper, it ought
not to be given us instead of copper.

Mr. Lee has yet sent me no answer to mine relating
to your accounts. Let me know whether the refer-
ence is accepted by the referees and whether it goes
on. I send you three original papers that may be of
use to you, as they show Mr. Lee's great skill in ac-
counts, and ability in objecting to them. The -first is
a proposition M. Monthieu made to obtain a contract.
The second is the contract actually . . . made
differing from the proposition. The third is Mr.
Lee's Report, wherein he took M. Monthieu's propo-
sition of a contract to be an account of charge for the
execution of it ; and comparing it with the contract,
he charges all the difference he finds as so many er-
rors in M. Monthieu's account. For instance, M.
Monthieu proposed to make 10,000 suits; we agreed
with him only for 6,000. Here Mr. Lee finds an
overcharge of 4,000 suits. M. Monthieu proposed
that we should give him thirty-eight livres per suit;
we agreed for thirty-seven. Here Mr. Lee finds an
over-charge of 10,000 livres, and so of the rest; when
in fact M. Monthieu, in his real account, had charged
exactly according to the agreement. You must take

1779] Benjamin Franklin n

good care of these papers, say nothing how you came
by them, and return them to me safely.

I send you inclosed the proposals of a tin-plate
manufacturer, which may some time or other be of
use to you.

I shall dispose of your letter to Mr. Lee as you de-
sire. I would advise you avoiding the publication
you mention.

Explain to me what is meant in your postscript by
the zeal of the best of them, etc.

I send an order this day to suspend the action
against M. Peltier. But surely he acted very irregu-
larly to sell a cargo consigned to us, without our or-
der, and give the produce to another. We ourselves
never had any dealings with M. Beaumarchais, and
he has never produced any account to us, but says
the States owe him a great deal of money. Upon his
word only we gave him up the cargo of the Amphi-
trite; he promised then to give us an accoimt, but
has never done it; and now, by means of M. Peltier,
he has seized another cargo. I imagine there is no
doubt but M. Peltier would be obliged to pay us the
money if the action were continued. And methinks
every man who makes a demand ought to deliver an
account. For my own part, I imagine our country
has been really much obliged to M. Beaumarchais;
and it is probable that Mr. Deane concerted with him
several large operations for which he is not yet paid.
They were before my arrival, and therefore I was not
privy to them. Had I been alone when the action
was commenced, perhaps I should have thought of
some milder proceeding, making allowance for M.

12 The Works of [1779

Beaumarchais' not being bred a merchant. But I
think you cannot well justify M. Peltier.
I am ever your affectionate uncle,

B. Franklin.

DCCLXXII

TO DAVID HARTLEY

Passy, 21 March, 1779.

Dear Sir: — I received duly yours of the 2d in-
stant. I am sorry you have had so much trouble in
the affair of the prisoners. You have been deceived
as well as I. No cartel ship has yet appeared; and
it is now evident that the delays have been of design,
to give more opportunity of seducing the men by
promises and hardships to seek their liberty in en-
gaging against their country ; for we learn from those
who have escaped, that there are persons continually
employed in cajoling and menacing them ; represent-
ing to them that we neglect them; that your govern-
ment is willing to exchange them ; and that it is our
fault it is not done ; that all the news from America
is bad on their side ; we shall be conquered and they
will be hanged, if they do not accept the gracious
offer of being pardoned, on condition of serving the
king, etc. A great part of your prisoners have been
kept these six months on board a ship in Brest road,
ready to be delivered; where I am afraid they were
not so comfortably accommodated as they might
have been in French prisons. They are now ordered

1779] Benjamin Franklin 13

on shore. Dr. Bancroft has received your letter
here. He did not go to Calais.'

Knowing how earnestly and constantly you wish
for peace, I cannot end a letter to you without drop-
ping a word on that subject, to mark that my wishes
are still in unison with yours. After the barbarities
your nation has exercised against us, I am almost
ashamed to own that I feel sometimes for her misfor-
times and her insanities. Your veins are open, and
your best blood continually running. You have now
got a little army into Georgia, and are triumphing in
that success. Do you expect ever to see that army
again? I know not what General Lincoln or Gen-
eral Thompson may be able to effect against them;
but, if they stay through the summer in that climate,
there is a certain General Fever that I apprehend will
give a good account of most of them. Perhaps you
comfort yourselves that our loss of blood is as great
as yours. But, as physicians say, there is a great
difference in the facility of repairing that loss be-
tween an old body and a young one. America adds
to her numbers annually one hundred and fifty
thousand souls. She, therefore, grows faster than
you can diminish her, and will outgrow all the mis-
chief you can do her. Have you the same prospects ?
But it is unnecessary for me to represent to you, or
you to me, the mischiefs that each nation is sub-
jected to by the war; we all see clear enough the
nonsense of continuing it; the difficulty is, where

^ It had been intended that Dr. Bancroft should proceed to England,
with a power from Dr. Franklin to negotiate an exchange of prisoners ;
but some difficulty having arisen, of which Mr. Hartley's letter con-
tained an intimation, that journey did not take place. — W. T. F.
The Works of [1779

to find sense enough to put an end to it. Adieu,
my dear friend, and believe me, etc.,

B. Franklin.

DCCLXXIII

TO THE MARQUIS DE LAFAYETTE

Passy, 22 March, 1779.

Dear Sir:— I admire much the activity of your
genius and the strong desire you have of being con-
tinually employed against our common enemy.

It is certain that the coasts of England and Scot-
land are extremely open and defenceless; there are
also many rich towns near the sea, which four or five
thousand men, landing unexpectedly, might easily
surprise and destroy, or exact from them a heavy
contribution, taking a part in ready money and host-
ages for the rest. I should suppose, for example,
that two millions sterling, or forty-eight millions of
livres, might be demanded of Bristol for the town
and shipping; twelve millions of livres from Bath;
forth-eight millions from Liverpool; six millions
from Lancaster; and twelve millions from White-
haven. On the east side there are the towns of New
Castle, Scarborough, Lynn, and Yarmouth, from
which very considerable simis might be exacted.
And if among the troops there were a few horsemen
to make sudden incursions at some little distance
from the coast, it would spread terror to much
greater distances, and the whole would occasion
movements and marches of troops that must put the

1779] Benjamin Franklin 15

enemy to a prodigious expense and harass them
exceedingly. Their militia will probably soon be
drawn from the different counties to one or two
places of encampment, so that little or no opposition
can be made to such a force as is above mentioned
in the places where they may land. But the practi-
cability of such an operation, and the means of facili-
tating and executing it, military people can best
judge of. I have not enough of knowledge in such
matters to presume upon advising it, and I am so
troublesome to the ministers on other accounts, that
I could hardly venture to solicit it if I were ever
so confident of its success. Much will depend on
the prudent and brave sea commander, who knows
the coasts, and on a leader of the troops who has the
affair at heart, who is naturally active and quick in
his enterprises, of a disposition proper to conciliate
the good- will and affection of both the corps, and by
that means to prevent or obviate such misunder-
standings as are apt to arise between them, and
which are often pernicious to joint expeditions.

On the whole, it may be encouraging to reflect on
the many instances of history which prove that in
war, attempts thought to be impossible, do often,
for that very reason become possible and practicable
because nobody expects them and no precautions
are taken to guard against them. And those are
the kind of undertakings of which the success affords
the most glory to the ministers who plan and to the
officers who execute them.

With the sincerest esteem and affection, I have the
honor to be, sir, etc., B. Franklin.

1 6 The Works of [1779

DCCLXXIV

TO A. LEE

Passy, 27 March, 1779.

Sir: — I have not hitherto undertaken to justify
Mr. Williams' accounts, nor to censure your conduct
in not passing them. To prevent any suspicion of
partiality towards him as my nephew, I avoided hav-
ing any thing to do with the examination of them;
but left it entirely to you and Mr. Adams. After
that examination Mr. Adams drew up and sent me
in for signing the order you mention. I considered
the expressions in it as only serving to show that the
accounts were not finally settled; and I considered
Mr. Adams' drawing up and sending me the order
as a proof that, in his judgment, who had with you
examined the accounts, the bills drawn on M. Grand
ought to be paid. I therefore signed it. I was not,
as you suppose, convinced " that the accounts as they
stood could not he passed''; for, having never exam-
ined them, I could form no such opinion of them. It
was not till lately that, being pressed by M. Monthieu
for a settlement of his accounts and finding that they
had a reference to Mr. Williams, I got those from Mr.
Adams. They were put up in a paper case which
covered the note you had made upon them, and that
case was fastened with wax. This prevented the
notes being before seen either by myself or by Mr.
Adams, among whose papers you had left those ac-
counts. He was as much surprised at seeing it as I
was, and as much dissatisfied with another you had
made in the body of the accounts, which, taken with

1779] Benjamin Franklin 17

the first, imports that, notwithstanding it appeared
from Mr. Wilhams' own account that he has now
and has long had in his hands upwards of an himdred
thousand Hvres belonging to the public, that have not
been applied to the public use, " B. Franklin and
John Adams, Esqrs., had given an order on the
public banker for the payment of all Mr. Williams'
demands."

This being a severe reflection upon us both, might
be suspected, if I were disposed to be suspicious, as
one reason why it was shown to neither of us, but left
concealed among the papers to appear hereafter as a
charge, not controverted at the time, whereby a fu-
ture accusation might be confirmed. Mr. Adams
spoke in strong terms of your having no right to
enter notes upon papers without our consent or
knowledge, and talked of making a counter entry,
in which he would have shown that your assertion
of our having " given an order for the payment of all
Mr. Williams' demands" was not conformable to truth
nor to the express terms of the order, but his atten-
tion being taken up with what related to his depart-
ure, was probably the cause of his omitting to make
that entry. On the whole, I judged it now incumbent
on me, for my own sake and Mr. Adams', as well as
for the public interest, to have those accounts fully
examined, as soon as possible, by skilful and impar-
tial persons, of which I informed you in mine of the
13th instant, requesting you to aid the inquiry by
stating your objections, that they might be con-
sidered by those judges, which I am sorry you do
not think fit to comply with. I have no desire to

i8 The Works of [1779

screen Mr, Williams on account of his being my
nephew; if he is guilty of what you charge him with,
I care not how soon he is deservedly punished and
the family purged of him ; for I take it that a rogue
living in [a] family is a greater disgrace to it than
'one hanged out of it. If he is innocent, justice re-
quires that his character should be speedily cleared
from the heavy charge with which it has been loaded.
I have the honor to be, etc.

B. Franklin.

DCCLXXV

TO A. LEE

Passy, 27 March, 1779.

Sir: — The offer you make of sending me copies,
sealed and authenticated, of all the papers in your
hands is very satisfactory; and as you say they are
but few I suppose it may soon be done. I imagined,
when I desired you to send me the originals, that
they were a great many, and at present of no im-
portance to you, and therefore not worth copying.
I assure you I had not the least intention of depriving
you of any thing you might think necessary for your
vindication. The suspicion is groimdless and in-
jurious. In a former letter I offered you authenti-
cated copies of any remaining in my hands that you
should judge might be of such use to you ; and I now
offer you the originals if you had rather have them,
and will content myself with keeping copies.

Mr. Adams did not, as you insinuate, exact any

1779] Benjamin Franklin 19

promise of me to arrange and keep in order the
papers he sent me. He knew such a promise un-
necessary, for that I had always kept in order and by
themselves the public papers that were in my hands,
without having them so confounded among a multi-
tude of other papers "that they could not be foimd
when called for."

I have the honor to be with great respect, sir, etc.,

B. Franklin.

DCCLXXVI

TO SAYRE

Passy, 31 March, 1779.

Sir: — I have just received your favor of the loth
inst. from Copenhagen. The account you give of
the disposition of the Swedish Court is very agree-
able. I saw in the newspapers that a deputy of
Congress was at Stockholm ; did you obtain the au-
diences you mention on assuming that character?
The information you did not choose to venture by
the post from Copenhagen may be safely sent from
Amsterdam.

I am not, as you have heard, the sole representa-
tive of America in Europe. The commissions of
Mr. A. Lee, Mr. Wm. Lee, and Mr. Izard, to different
courts still subsist. I am only sole with regard to
France. Nor have I power to give you any employ
worth your accepting.

Much has been said by the English about divisions

20 The Works of [1779

in America. No division of any consequence has
arisen there. Petty disputes between particular
persons about private interests there are always in
every country; but in regard to the great point of
independence there is no difference of sentiment in
the Congress, and as the Congress are the annual
voice of the people, it is easy to judge of their senti-
ments by those of their representatives.

The taking of Savannah makes a noise in England
and helps to keep up their spirits ; but I apprehend,
before the summer is over, they will find the posses-
sion of that capital of Georgia of as little consequence
as their former possessions of Boston and Philadel-
phia; and that the distempers of that unwholesome
part of the country will very much weaken, if not
ruin, that army.

The principal difficulty at present in America con-
sists in the depreciation of paper currency, owing to
the over-quantities issued and the diminished de-
mand of it in commerce. But as the Congress has
taken measures for sinking it expeditiously, and the
several governments are taxing vigorously for that
purpose, there is a prospect of its recovering a proper
value. In the meantime, though an evil to particu-
lars, there is some advantage to the public in the
depreciation, as large nominal values are more easily
paid in taxes, and the debt by that means more easily
extinguished. B. Franklin.

1779] Benjamin Franklin 21

DCCLXXVII

TO WILLIAM LEE

Passy, 2 April, 1779.

Sir: — Before I apply for the arms you desire, I
wish to be informed whether your brother did not
apply for them at the same time he applied for the
cannon he obtained, or since, in consequence of the
letter you mention to have sent us in January last,
and whether they were refused or promised.

Since I had the honor of seeing you I have received
an application from the government of Maryland for
a similar quantity of arms and military stores, which
I am requested to obtain in the same manner, and
these, with the orders of Congress, will make so vast
a quantity, that I apprehend greater difficulties in
obtaining them. I should be glad, therefore, if a
part could be obtained elsewhere, that the quantity
now to be applied for might be diminished. On this
occasion permit me to mention that the D'Acostas
have presented a memorial to me setting forth that
they had provided arms, etc., to a great amount, in
consequence of a contract made with you through
your brother, and that for no other reason but be-
cause they were not finished at the time agreed,
there having been a delay of a month, which they
say was not their fault, but inevitable, he had re-
fused to take them. Upon this they desire that
I would procure justice to be done them, or that I
would approve of their sending the goods and en-
deavor to have the contract complied with on the
part of Virginia. I declined having any thing to do

2 2 The Works of [1779

with the affair, but I wish you to consider whether
it would not be prudent to moderate this Httle
difference with those people, and take the advantage
of sending those arms, which have been proved good,
and I suppose still lie at Nantes ready to be shipped
immediately, rather than wait the success of a
doubtful application.

I have the honor to be, sir, etc., B. Franklin.

DCCLXXVIII

TO JOHN ADAMS '

Passy, 3 April, 1779.

Sir: — I received the letter you did me the honor
to write me of the 24th past. I am glad you have
been at Brest, as your presence there has contributed
to expedite the operations of Capt. Landais in re-
fitting his ship. I think with you that more has been
made of the conspiracy than was necessar}'' ; but that
it would have been well if some of the most guilty
could have received a proper punishment. As that
was impracticable under our present naval code, I
hope you will, on your return, obtain an amendment
of it. I approve of clothing the midshipmen and
petty officers agreeably to their request to you, and
hope you have ordered it, without waiting to hear
from me; and I now desire that whatever else you
may judge for the good of the service, our friends
and circumstances considered, you would in my be-
half give directions for, as the great distance makes

I Mr. Adams was on board the Alliance awaiting her sailing. Mr.
Sparks prints his cordial answer to this letter, which latter he does not
seem to have seen.

1779] Benjamin Franklin 23

it inconvenient to send to me on every occasion;
and I can confide in your prudence that you will
allow no expense that is unnecessary.

My gout continues to disable me from walking
longer than formerly; but on Tuesday the 23d past
I thought myself able to go through the ceremony,
and accordingly went to court, ^ had my audience of
the king in the new character, presented my letter of
credence, and was received very graciously. After
which I went the rounds with the other foreign min-
isters, in visiting all the royal family. The fatigue,
however, was a little too much for my feet, and dis-
abled me for near another week. Upon the whole I
can assure you that I do not think the good-will of
this court to the good cause of America is at all
diminished by the late little reverses in the fortime
of war; and I hope Spain, who has now forty-nine
ships of the line and thirty-one frigates ready for
service, will soon, by declaring, turn the scale. Re-
member me affectionately to Master Johnny, and be-
lieve me, with great esteem, sir,

Your most obedient and most humble servant,

B. Franklin.

DCCLXXIX '

TO JOSHUA JOHNSON

Passy, 8 April, 1779.

Sir: — Mr. Wm. Lee has lately been here from
Frankfort. He has desired me to make such an

I Franklin had been prevented till now being presented at court in
his new character of Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipoten-
tiary.— Editor.

24 The Works of [1779

application in behalf of the State of Virginia as you
request in behalf of Maryland. Messrs. D'Acosta
& Co. had complained to me that they had provided
what Mr. Lee wanted, in pursuance of a contract
made with Mr. A. Lee, who had refused to take the
goods off his hands. I proposed to Mr. Wm. Lee to
accommodate this little difference, and take those
goods now lying ready at Nantes to be shipped, rather
than wait the event of an uncertain application to
government. He absolutely refuses, and says you
may take them for Maryland, if you please. Pray
let me know, as soon as may be, whether it will not
suit you to agree for them with these gentlemen.
I have the honor to be, etc.,

B. Franklin.

DCCLXXX

TO JONATHAN WILLIAMS

Passy, 8 April, 1779.

Dear Jonathan: — Too much business, too much
interruption by friendly visits, and a little remaining
indisposition, have occasioned the delay in answering
your late letters.

You desire a line "relative to the complexion of
affairs." If you mean our affairs at this court, they
wear as good a complexion as ever they did.

I do not know what to advise concerning M.
Monthieu's proposition. Follow your own judg-
ment. If you doubt, set down all the reasons, pro
and con, in opposite columns on a sheet of paper,

1779] Benjamin Franklin 25

and when you have considered them two or three
days, perform an operation similar to that in some
questions of algebra; observe what reasons or mo-
tives in each column are equal in weight, one to one,
one to two, two to three, or the like, and when you
have struck out from both sides all the equahties,
you will see in which column remains the balance.
It is for want of having all the motives for and against
an important action present in or before the mind at
the same time, that people hesitate and change their
determinations backwards and forwards day after
day, as different sets of reasons are recollected or
forgot, and if they conclude and act upon the last set,
it is perhaps not because those were the best, but be-
cause they happened to be present in the mind, and
the better absent. This kind of moral algebra I have
often practised in important and dubious concerns,
and though it cannot be mathematically exact, I have
found it extremely useful. By the way, if you do
not learn it, I apprehend you will never be married.

There is in one account of the copper an article —
des mines de St. Bell, 63,400. I suppose it was the
word mines, not Rosette, that was translated ore.

Let me know, if you can, what answer the gentle-
man receives from London, on his inquiries concern-
ing a supposed letter.

I send you herewith the paper you desire respect-
ing the settlement of your accounts. I send, also,
an attested copy of Mr. Lee's reasons for not passing
them. In answer to my letter requesting him to fur-
nish the gentlemen who are to examine them with
such further objections as he may have against them,

26 The Works of [1779

he writes me that " I must excuse him, now that it
is no longer his indispensable duty, from concerning
himself with a business which is in much abler hands.
If Congress," he adds, " should call upon me for fur-
ther reasons than those that I have already given, it
will then be my duty to act, and I will obey." I
cannot conceive his reason for not giving his further
reasons, if he has any, on the present occasion, when
they would be so proper ; but he refused, and I can-
not compel him.

I shall file the letters and papers you sent me with
your accounts. I have received back those you
enclosed in yours of March 27th, relating to M. Mon-
thieu's contract. I have received, also, Messrs. Hor-
neca & Fizeaux's invoice, and will return it by next
post with the order you desire.

I have no objection to your mentioning the fact
relative to the censure of M. Monthieu's accounts.

I am ever your affectionate uncle,

B. Franklin.

DCCLXXXI

TO J. ADAMS

Passy, 21 April, 1779.

Sir: — I have received your two favors of the 13th
inst. I am much obliged to you for undertaking the
trouble of contenting the officers and people of the
Alliance. I must now beg leave to make a little ad-
dition to that trouble by requesting your attention to
the situation of the officers and sailors, late prisoners

1779] Benjamin Franklin 27

in England, which Mr. Williams will acquaint you
with, and that you would likewise order for them
such necessaries and comforts as we can afford. I
wish we were able to do all they want and desire, but
the scantiness of our funds and the multitude of de-
mands prevent it.

The English papers talk much of their appre-
hensions about Spain; I hope they have some
foundation.

With great esteem, I have the honor to be, etc.,

B. Franklin.

DCCLXXXII

TO JOHN QUINCY ADAMS

Passy, 21 April, 1779.

Dear Master Johnny : — I am glad you have seen
Brest and the fleet there. It must give you an idea
of the naval force of this kingdom which you will
long retain with pleasure.

I caused the letters you enclosed to me to be care-
fully delivered, but have not received answers to be
sent you.

Benjamin, whom you so kindly remember, would
have been glad to hear of your welfare, but he is
gone to Geneva. As he is destined to live in a Pro-
testant country, and a republic, I thought it best
to finish his education where the proper principles
prevail.

I heartily wish you a good voyage and a happy
sight of your mamma, being really your affectionate
friend, B. Franklin.

28 The Works of [1779

DCCLXXXIII

TO JOSIAH QUINCY

Passy, 22 April, 1779.

Dear Sir: — I received your very kind letter by
Mr. Bradford, who appears a very sensible and ami-
able young gentleman, to whom I should with pleas-
tire render any services in my power upon your much
respected recommendation; but I understand he
returns immediately.

It is with great sincerity I join you in acknowledg-
ing and admiring the dispensations of Providence in
our favor. America has only to be thankful and to
persevere. God will finish his work, and establish
their freedom ; and the lovers of liberty will flock from
all parts of Europe with their fortunes to partake with
us of that freedom, as soon as peace is restored.

I am exceedingly pleased with your account of the
French politeness and civility, as it appeared among
the officers and people of their fleet. They have cer-
tainly advanced in those respects many degrees be-
yond the English. I find them here a most amiable
nation to live with. The Spaniards are, by common
opinion, supposed to be cruel, the English proud, the
Scotch insolent, the Dutch avaricious, etc., but I
think the French have no national vice ascribed to
them. They have some frivolities, but they are
harmless. To dress their heads so that a hat cannot
be put on them, and then wear their hats under their
arms, and to fill their noses with tobacco, may be
called follies, perhaps, but they are not vices. They
are only the effects of the tyranny of custom. In

1779] Benjamin Franklin 29

short, there is nothing wanting in the character of a
Frenchman that belongs to that of an agreeable and
worthy man. There are only some trifles surplus, or
which might be spared.

Will you permit me, while I do them this justice,
to hint a little censure on our own country people,
which I do in good- will, wishing the cause removed.
You know the necessity we are under of supplies from
Europe, and the difficulty we have at present in mak-
ing returns. The interest bills would do a good deal
towards purchasing arms, ammunition, clothing,
sail-cloth, and other necessaries for defence. Upon
inquiry of those who present these bills to me for ac-
ceptance, what the money is to be laid out in, I find
that most of it is for superfluities, and more than half
of it for tea. How unhappily in this instance the
folly of our people and the avidity of our merchants
concur to weaken and impoverish our country. I
formerly computed that we consumed before the
war, in that single article, the value of five hundred
thousand pounds sterling annuahy. Much of this
was saved by stopping the use of it. I honored the
virtuous resolution of our women in foregoing that
little gratification, and I lament that such virtue
should be of so short duration. Five hundred
thousand pounds sterling annually laid out in de-
fending ourselves, or annoying our enemies, would
have great effect. With what face can we ask aids
and subsidies from our friends while we are wasting
our own wealth in such prodigality ? With great
and sincere esteem, I have the honor to be, dear sir,
etc., B. Franklin.

30 The Works of [1779

DCCLXXXIV

TO SAMUEL COOPER

Passy, 22 April, 1779.

My Dear Friend : — I received your valuable letter
by the Marquis de Lafayette, and another by Mr.
Bradford. I can only write a few words in answer to
the latter, the former not being at hand. The depre-
ciation of our money must, as you observe, greatly
affect salary men, widows, and orphans. Methinks
this evil deserves the attention of the several legisla-
tures, and ought, if possible to be remedied by some
equitable law particularly adapted to their circum-
stances. I took all the pains I could in Congress to
prevent the depreciation, by proposing, first, that the
bills should bear interest ; this was rejected, and they
were struck as you see them. Secondly, after the
first emission, I proposed that we should stop, strike
no more, but borrow on interest those we had issued.
This was not then approved of, and more bills were
issued. When, from the too great quantity, they
began to depreciate, we agreed to borrow on inter-
est ; and I proposed that, in order to fix the value of
the principal, the interest should be promised in hard
dollars. This was objected to as impracticable; but
I still continue of opinion that by sending out cargoes
to purchase it, we might have brought in money
sufficient for that purpose, as we brought in powder,
etc., etc.; and that, though the attempt must have
been attended with a disadvantage, the loss would
have been a less mischief than any measure at-
tending the discredit of the bills, which threatens to

1779] Benjamin Franklin 31

take out of our hands the great instrument of our
defence.

The Congress did at last come into the proposal of
paying the interest in real money. But when the
whole mass of the currency was under way in depre-
ciation, the momentum of its descent was too great
to be stopped by a power that might at first have
been sufficient to prevent the beginning of the mo-
tion. The only remedy now seems to be a diminution
of the quantity by a vigorous taxation of great
nominal sums, which the people are more able to pay,
in proportion to the quantity and diminished value;
and the only consolation under the evil is, that the
public debt is proportionably diminished with the
depreciation ; and this by a kind of imperceptible tax,
every one having paid a part of it in the fall of value
that took place between the receiving and paying such
sums as passed through his hands. For it should al-
ways be remembered that the original intention was
to sink the bills by taxes, which would as effectually
extinguish the debt as an actual redemption.

This effect of paper currency is not understood on
this side the water. And indeed the whole is a mys-
tery even to the politicians, how we have been able
to continue a war four years without money, and how
we could pay with paper that had no previously fixed
fund appropriated specifically to redeem it. This
currency, as we manage it, is a wonderful machine.
It performs its office when we issue it; it pays and
clothes the troops, and provides victuals and ammu-
nition ; and when we are obliged to issue a quantity
excessive, it pays itself off by depreciation.

32 The Works of [1779

Our affairs in general stand in a fair light through-
out Europe. Our cause is universally approved.
Our constitutions of government have been trans-
lated and printed in most languages, and are so much
admired for the spirit of liberty that reigns in them,
that it is generally agreed we shall have a vast ac-
cession of national property after the war. from
every part of this continent, and particularly from
the British Islands. We have only to persevere and
to be happy.

Yours, etc., B. Franklin.

DCCLXXXV

FROM DAVID HARTLEY

London, 22 April, 1779.

My Dear Friend: — The bearer of this, and some
other papers, is a very sensible and worthy gentle-
man, with whom I had the pleasure of contracting
an acquaintance since the commencement of the
American troubles, originally upon the business of
the American prisoners. It is a satisfaction to me at
all times to have found him a friend to the restora-
tion of peace between the two countries. It has
likewise been an additional satisfaction and con-
firmation to me in my own thoughts upon that sub-
ject, to find that his sentiments, I think upon most
or all of the subjects upon which we have conversed,
have coincided with mine. We both seem possessed
of the opinion that some plan of opening a nego-

1779] Benjamin Franklin 33

tiation upon preliminaries, which each side might
find to be a sufficient security to itself, might be
practicable; and then your sentiment, which you
gave me in your letter some years ago, might have
its free scope and effect, viz. : A little time given for
cooling might have excellent effects.

The sentiments I have opened to you in my late
letters for some months past, and which I have re-
duced in an enclosed paper into a more specific
shape, seem to me, upon very repeated reflection, to
promise the fairest ground of good expectation.
These propositions originate from myself as a medi-
ator; I have communications with both sides, but
certainly no authority to make proposals from
either; and perhaps neither side, if I were to make
the propositions separately to each (being myself
unauthorized), might give me positive consent.
Each side separately might say No, from what is
called political prudence; and yet each side might
secretly wish that the offer could be made, with a
done first, from the other party. I think the propo-
sition of a truce for five or seven years, leaving all
things in the present dispute in statu quo, must be
advantageous to all parties, if it were only in con-
sideration that a general satisfactory peace to all
parties may come among the excellent effects of time
given for cooling. We can but fight it out at last.
War never comes too late; wisdom may step in
between. These matters have stolen upon us, and
have arisen to great and formidable consequences
from small and unexpected beginnings; but hence-
forward we should know by experience what to

VOL. vni. — 3.

34 The Works of [1779

expect. If the rage of war could but be abated for
a sufficient length of time for reason and reflection
to operate, I think it would never revive. I cannot
pretend to forecast the result of any negotiation,
but I think war would not revive, which is all that I
want for my argument. Peace is a bonum in se,
whereas the most favorable events of war are but
relatively lesser evils ; certainly they are evils ; mala
in se, not bona in se.

I hope that a cessation of hostilities would produce
a renewal of reflection; but, even to take the argu-
ment at the worst advantage, the two parties are
at a cooling distance of three thousand miles asunder.
If the flames of war could be but once extinguished,
does not the Atlantic Ocean contain cold water
enough to prevent their bursting out again? I am
very strongly of opinion that the two nations of
Great Britain and North America would accord to
the proposition of a truce for cooling. I cannot say
whether a British ministry would accord to it, be-
cause they will not tell me; nor can I say whether
an American plenipotentiary would accord to it,
because, probably, you will not tell me. I put my-
self into your hands, however, when I tell you frank-
ly I am of opinion that both would accord to it if
there could be a done first on either side, to bind the
bargain fast. You have the odds of me in this mat-
ter, because you know one half of the question ; and
I cannot give you any proof on the other side, but
only my own presumptive judgment upon observa-
tion, and upon a course of reasoning in my own
thoughts.

1779] Benjamin Franklin 35

But, for France. My judgment would be that
if the proposition of the proposed prehminaries
should be agreeable to America, France would do
very unhandsomely to defeat it by their refusal. I
likewise think it the interest of France, because their
interest leads them to go to a certain point, and no
further. There is a disparity in the operation of the
terms of the alliance on the part of France, and on
the part of America. The more vigorously France
interposes, the better for America; in proportion
to their exertions they create, less or more, a diver-
sion of the British force. This reasoning goes
straight forward for America, but it is not so with
France. There is a certain point to France, beyond
which their work would fail, and recoil upon them-
selves. If they were to drive the British ministry
totally to abandon the American war, it would be-
come totally a French war. The events of a twelve-
month past seem to bear testimony to this course of
reasoning. The disadvantage upon the bargain to
America is, that the efficacy of the French alliance
to them presupposes their continuance in the war.
The demur to France is that the liberation of their
new ally recoils with double weight of the war upon
themselves, without any ulterior points of advan-
tage in view, as dependent upon that alliance. I
think the interest of all parties coincides with the
proposition of preliminaries.

The proposed preliminaries appear to me to be
just and equitable to all parties; but the great ob-
ject with me is to come to some preliminaries. I
could almost add, whatever those preliminaries

36 The Works of [1779

might be, provided a suspension of arms for an ade-
quate term of years were one, I think it would be
ten thousand to one against any future renewal of
the war. It is not necessary to enter at large into
the reasons which induce me to think that the Brit-
ish ministry, as well as the American plenipotenti-
ary, would consent to the terms of the proposed
preliminaries ; for indeed I do not know that I. am
founded in that opinion with respect to either, but
still I believe it of both.

But what can a private person do in such a case,
wishing to be a mediator for peace, having access
to both parties, but equally uncertain of the recep-
tion of his mediation on either side ? I must hesitate
to take any public step, as by a proposition in Par-
liament, or by any other means, to drive the parties
to an explanation on any specific proposals; and
yet I am very unwilling to let the session pass with-
out some proposition, upon which the parties may
meet, if the}^ should be so inclined, as I suspect them
to be. I have been endeavoring to feel pulses for
some months, but all is dumb show. I cannot say
that I meet with any thing discouraging, to my
apprehension, either as to the equitableness or
practicability of the proposition for preliminaries.
If I could but simply receive sufficient encourage-
ment that I should not run any hazard of obstruct-
ing any other practicable propositions by obtruding
mine, I should be very much satisfied to come for-
ward in that case with mine, to furnish a beginning,
at least, which might lead to peace.

There is nothing that I wish so much as to have

1779] Benjamin Franklin 37

an opportunity of seeing and conversing with you,
having many things to say to you ; but if that cannot
yet happen, I have only to say that whatever com-
munication you may think proper to make to me,
which may lead to peace, you may be assured that
I shall be most strenuous in applying it to that end.
In all cases of difficulty in human life there must
be confidence somewhere to enable us to extricate
nations from the evils attendant upon national dis-
putes, as they arise out of national passions, jealousies,
and points of honor. I am not sure whether the ex-
treme caution and diffidence of persons in political
life be not the cause almost as frequently of the
unnecessary protraction of the miseries of war as
of the final production of any superior good to any
state. Peace now is better than peace a twelvemonth
hence, at least by all the lives that may be lost in
the meanwhile, and by all the accumulated miseries
that may intervene by that delay. When I speak
of the necessity of confidence, I would not have you
think that I trust to all professions, promiscuously,
with confidence; my thoughts are free respecting
all parties, and for myself, if I thought it necessary
for the end of attaining any additional confidence
in your esteem, to enable me to co-operate the more
effectually towards the restoration of peace, there
is nothing that I would wish you to be assured of
but this, that no fallacious offers of insincerity, nor
any pretexts for covering secret designs, or for ob-
taining unfair advantages, shall ever pass through
my hands.

Believe me truly to be, not only a lover of my

38 The Works of [1779

country, but a sincere friend to peace and to the
rights of mankind, and ever most affectionately
yours, D. Hartley.

Observations by Mr. Hartley

Lord North consented to Mr. Hartley's propo-
sition, for endeavoring to procure from the American
plenipotentiary or plenipotentiaries some opening
that they would be willing to commence to parley
on propositions of peace between Great Britain and
America; and supposed the terms which Mr. Hart-
ley had in view would be something like a tacit ces-
sion of independence to America, with a truce for
a certain term of years, to serve as a basis for a
general treaty of accommodation and final settle-
ment.

This last application (which was made on the 20th
of April, 1779) of Mr. Hartley to Lord North, after
several previous conferences on the subject, is the
ground of the present confidential communication
with Dr. Franklin, on the part of Mr. Hartley, who
states to Dr. Franklin, as he did to Lord North, that
an auspicious beginning of a negotiation is dimidium
jacti.

Mr. Hartley's ideas of the probable course of the
negotiation would be to the following effect :

I. Five commissioners (or any three of them) to
be appointed on the part of his Britannic Majesty,
to treat, consult, and agree upon the final settle-
ment and pacification of the present troubles, upon
safe, honorable, and permanent terms, subject to
ratification by Parliament.

1779] Benjamin Franklin 39

2. That any one of the aforesaid commissioners
may be empowered to agree, as a prehminary, to
a suspension of hostihties by sea and land, for a
certain term of five or seven years.

3. That any one of the aforesaid commissioners
be empowered to agree, as a second prehminary,
to suspend the operation and effect of any and all
acts of Parliament respecting America, for a certain
term of five or seven years.

4. That it is expected, as a third preliminary, that
America should be released, free and unengaged,
from any treaties with foreign powers which may
tend to embarrass or defeat the present proposed
negotiation.

5. That a general treaty for negotiation shall be
set on foot as soon as may be, after the agreement of
the foregoing preliminaries.

N. B. — A doubt seeming to arise from Lord North
relative to the probability of any explanatory com-
miinication on the part of Dr. Franklin, Mr. Hart-
ley expressed, he thought it possible that, as a
known friend to peace, he might be considered by
Dr. Franklin as a depot of any communications
which may serve from time to time to facilitate the
terms of peace; which, therefore, prevents this
communication from being considered as any direct
overture from Lord North to Dr. Franklin, or from
Dr. Franklin to Lord North; but as it is merely a
mediatorial proposition of Mr. Hartley, as a private
person, for the purpose of bringing the parties to a
parley.

40 The Works of [1779

DCCLXXXVI

TO JOHN ADAMS, ESQ.

Passy, 24 April, 1779.

Sir: — By the enclosed letter from M. de Sartine
expressing his Majesty's desire that the Alliance
should be retained here a little longer, you will see
that I am under a kind of necessity of disappointing
you in your intentions of making your passage in
that vessel, which would be more unpleasing to me
but for these considerations, that possibly it may be
safer for you to go in a ship where the crew, not
being so mixed, can be better depended on, where
you will not be so incommoded by the misunder-
standings subsisting between the officers and their
captain, and where you will have the society of the
French Ambassador, M. le Chevalier de la Luzerne,
who appears to me a most amiable man, and of very
sensible and pleasing conversation. I hope this will
in some measure compensate for the inconvenience
of shifting your stores from one ship to the other.
And I as shall order the Alliance to L 'Orient, where
the king's frigate is that carries the ambassador, the
removal of your things fiom one ship to the other
will be more easy; you can even go hither in the
Alliance if you choose it. The ships in the Ameri-
can trade which were at Nantes when I offered them
the convoy of the Alliance having dechned that
offer and sailed, as I understand, under another and
perhaps safer convoy, makes her immediate depart-
ure for America less necessary, and perhaps she may
now make a cruise in these seas, for which I under-

1779] Benjamin Franklin 41

stand she will have time, and which will be probably-
more advantageous, and therefore more satisfactory,
to her people than a direct return. I hope she may
procure us some more prisoners to exchange the rest
of our coimtrymen, and at the same time reimburse
us the charges of her refitting, which you know we
stand much in need of. M. Dumas writes me from
the Hague of the 19th: "Je sgais depuis hier de
bonne part, que I'Espagne s'est enfin declaree. Cela
fera un bon effet ici et partout." I hope his intelli-
gence is good, but nothing of it has yet transpired
here.

Enclosed I send you a cover which I have just
received from Martinique, directed to me, but con-
taining only a letter for you. The cover being un-
skilfully sealed over, the seal of your letter was so
attached to it that I had like to have broke open the
one in opening the other. I send you also another
letter which came from Spain.

I am obliged for your offer of taking charge of my
despatches for America. I shall send them down to
you by M. de la Luzerne, who is to set off in a few days.

With great esteem, I have the honor to be, etc.,

B. Franklin.

DCCLXXXVII

TO JOHN PAUL JONES

Passy, 27 April, 1779.

Dear Sir: — I have, at the request of M. de Sar-
tine, postponed the sending of the Alliance to

42 The Works of [1779

America, and have ordered her to proceed immedi-
ately from Nantes to L 'Orient, where she is to be fur-
nished with her complement of men, to join your
little squadron, and act under your command.

The Marquis de Lafayette will be with you soon.
It has been observed that joint expeditions of land
and sea forces often miscarry, through jealousies and
misunderstandings between the officers of the differ-
ent corps. This must happen where there are little
minds, actuated more by personal views of profit or
honor to themselves, than by the warm and sincere
desire of good to their country. Knowing you both
as I do, and your just manner of thinking on these
occasions, I am confident nothing of the kind can
happen between you, and that it is unnecessary for
me to recommend to either of you that condescen-
sion, mutual good-will, and harmony which con-
tribute so much to success in such undertakings.

I look upon this expedition as an introduction only
to greater trusts and more extensive commands, and
as a kind of trial of both your abilities and of your
fitness in temper and disposition for acting in concert
with others. I flatter myself, therefore, that nothing
will happen that may give impressions to the disad-
vantage of either of you when greater affairs shall
come under consideration. As this is understood to
be an American expedition, under the Congress' com-
mission and colors, the Marquis, who is a major-gen-
eral in that service, has of course the step in point of
rank, and he must have command of the land forces,
which are committed by the king to his care ; but the
command of the ships will be entirely in you; in

1779] Benjamin Franklin 43

which I am persuaded that whatever authority his
rank might in strictness give him, he will not have
the least desire to interfere with yoti. There is honor
enough to be got for both of you, if the expedition is
conducted with a prudent unanimity. The circum-
stance is indeed a little unusual ; for there is not only
a junction of land and sea forces, but there is also a
junction of Frenchmen and Americans, which in-
creases the difficulty of maintaining a good under-
standing. A cool, prudent conduct in the chiefs is,
therefore, the more necessary; and I trust neither
of you will in that respect be deficient.' With my
best wishes for your success, health, and honor, I
remain, etc., B. Franklin.

* The expedition here referred to, which was intended to act on the

coast of England, was at length changed by the French government.

The following letter on the occasion was written by the Marquis de

Lafayette to Paul Jones:

"Paris, 22 May, 1779.

" Dear Sir : — I dare say you will be very sorry to hear that the king's
dispositions concerning our plan have been quite altered, and that in-
stead of meeting you, I am now going to take the command of the king's
regiment at Saintes. What will be further determined about your
squadron is yet uncertain, and the ministers are to consult about it
with Dr. Franklin. Political and mihtary reasons have occasioned
the alteration of things, and I am only to tell you, my good friend, how
sorry I feel not to be a witness of your success, abilities, and glory.

"I hope every thing will be arranged for the best, and the more
calculated for the common advantage. Be convinced, sir, that no-
thing could gratify me more than the pleasure of having again something
of the kind to undertake with such an officer as Captain Jones. That
occasion I shall ever wish for, and shall, I hope, find before the end
of the war. With the sincerest affection and esteem, I am, etc.,

"Lafayette."

44 The Works of [1779

DCCLXXXVIII

instructions to john paul jones, commander of
the american squadron in the service of
the united states, now in the port of
l'orient

I St. His Majesty having been pleased to grant
some troops for a particular expedition proposed to
annoy our common enemy, in which the sea force
under your command might have an opportunity of
distinguishing itself, you are to receive on board the
ships of war, and the other vessels destined for that
purpose, the troops that shall present themselves
to you, afford them such accommodations as may
be most proper for preserving their health, and con-
vey them to such port or place as their commander
shall desire to land them at.

2dly. When the troops are landed you are to aid,
by all means in your power, their operations, as they
will be instructed in like manner to aid and support
those you may make with your ships, that so, by
this concurrence and union of your different forces,
all that such a compound strength is capable of may
be effected.

3dly. You are during the expedition never to de-
part from the troops so as not to be able to protect
them in case of a repulse ; and at all events you are
to endeavor to effect their complete re embarkation
on board the ships and transports under your com-
mand, when the expedition shall be ended.

4thly. You are to bring to France all the English
seamen you may happen to take prisoners, in order to

1779] Benjamin Franklin 45

complete the good work you have already made such
progress in, of delivering by an exchange the rest of
our countrymen now languishing in the gaols of
Great Britain.

5thly. As many of your officers and people have
lately escaped from English prisons, either in Europe
or America, you are to be particularly attentive to
their conduct towards the prisoners which the fortune
of war may throw into your hands, lest resentment of
the more than barbarous usage by the English in
many places towards the Americans should occasion
a retaliation, and an imitation of what ought rather
to be detested and avoided for the sake of humanity
and for the honor of our country.

6thly. In the same view, although the English
have burnt wantonly many defenceless towns in
America, you are not to follow this example, unless
where a reasonable ransom is refused ; in which case
your own generous feelings, as well as this instruction,
will induce you to give timely notice of your inten-
tion, that sick and ancient persons, women, and
children, may be first removed.

Done at Passy, this 28th day of April, 1779.
B. Franklin.
Minister Plenipotentiary from the United States
to the Court of France.

46 The Works of [1779

DCCLXXXIX

MEMORIAL OF ARTHUR LEE*

Paris, i May, 1779.

The demand that Dr. Franklin has thought proper
to make from me of some pubhc papers requires
some observations, that Congress may judge of the
real motive of demanding them.

So Httle was Dr. FrankUn's care about these papers
till since Mr. Deane's accusations, that he would not
give himself the trouble of assisting Mr. Adams and
myself in examining and taking a list of them, which
last I took with my own hands and left at Passy.
About the time that Mr. Deane's letter was made
public here. Dr. Franklin, wrote Mr. Adams, desiring
he would put the papers which the latter had kept
till then into his hands. This was complied with,
and he then probably discovered that there were
some of Mr. Williams' letters to the Commissioners
and one of the accounts with M. Monthieu in my
hands which might prove disagreeable truths.

I was confined to my bed when Mr. Deane's letter
was announced for the next week in the Courier de
VEurope, a paper printed in France, and read
through Europe, because it is in the French lan-
guage. I sent my secretary to Dr. Franklin to de-
sire his concurrence in writing to M. de Vergennes,

^ To illustrate the sort of colleague Dr. Franklin had to deal with in
Arthur Lee, I insert here a Memorial which he addressed to Congress
shortly after the receipt of Dr. Franklin's letter of the 13th of March.
It is difficult to ascribe the address of such a doctmient to Congress
to any better motive than a desire to secure the commission of a full
minister which later was wisely bestowed upon Franklin. — Editor.

1779] Benjamin Franklin 47

to request him to forbid the pubUcation of that
letter, as it was likely to injure and disgrace the
cause of our country. Dr. Franklin not only did
not concur, but by not making me an answer he kept
me in suspense till my application was too late.
Thus this libel upon Congress and their servants was
permitted to be circulated through all Europe. Dr.
Franklin, like Mr. Deane, appeared totally regard-
less of the mischief it might do to the public, pro-
vided it would defame me. This conduct announced
such a determined enmity, that I was not a little
surprised at receiving from the same person on the
1 8th of February a letter, enclosing among others
a copy of the resolve of Congress recommending
harmony and confidence between us, with a declara-
tion that it was agreeable to his inclinations.

I was willing to flatter myself, however, that the
profession had some sincerity in it, and was deter-
mined to cultivate it by my answer, which I returned
that day. But the next day undeceived me, when
Dr. Franklin's grandson called upon me with a letter
of the same date, requiring all the papers in my hands
to be delivered, and not one word in reply to mine
whether Mr. Deane had used his name against me
by his authority. It appeared therefore that the
sole purpose of this first letter was to announce his
authority and induce me to give up the papers, or
furnish him with a pretence for saying that I inter-
rupted the harmony he so cordially offered. This
harmony I know from long experience there is but
one way of preserving, — namely, to have no opinion
of one's own, but in all things submit to his absolute

48 The Works of [1779

dictation, and coincide with views however mean
and selfish one may think them. Every one here
must move as his sateUite and shine only as he is
pleased to illuminate him. To appear to have any
influence here or in America, to do or propose any
thing for the public good, and not to lend one's self
as the instrument of his aggrandizement, — these are
criminal things in his eyes. Jealous and irritable
he easily takes offence, and pursues with secret but
implacable vengeance the destruction of those who
have so offended him.

These sentiments of him are not set down in pas-
sion or in malice, but in sober conviction, and such
as I should be obliged to give in at the bar of heaven.

It was in this temper that he conceived an enmity
against Mr. Izard, my brother, and myself, and has
sought our disgrace and ruin both here and in Amer-
ica, not openly and in person, but by various agents
tutored and interested for the purpose. Grown
bolder at length, he has endeavored to starve the
two former and their families here, or compel them
to resign and return to America. The man who saw
with perfect indifference 40,000 livres of the public
money applied by Mr. Deane, while a Commissioner,
to private purposes; who never expressed one word
of disapprobation when the same gentleman, not
being in Commission, and being in no apparent want
of it, made free with 38,715 livres of the pubHc
money, and who paid his nephew, Mr. Williams,
50,000 livres of the same money, pretendedly re-
mitted from Nantes in a bill on Mr. Chaumont, which
never appeared to your Commissioners, and to pay

1779] Benjamin Franklin 49

an account with the Commissioners which they did
not know ever existed, and which has never yet been
produced, has become all at once, and in the case of
those he hates, most vigilant in the expenditure of
the public money ; and equivocating upon the words
of the resolution, though in direct violation of its
manifest meaning, says: Gentlemen, you are not
at your courts, and therefore it is not necessary
you should eat. But we are awaiting under the
orders of Congress to embrace the first opportunity
of going thither. No matter, I shall give you no
money.'

Need Congress have any more proofs of the temper
and conduct of this gentleman, and how impossible it
is for harmony to subsist where such principles and
practices prevail, unless all their Commissioners were
equally corrupt, and would harmonize in sacrificing
the public to private views of mutual vanity, avarice,
and ambition.

I have entered into this detail to show that recon-

» Another reason has been found out for refusing the Commissioners
money, which is, that the bills for the payment of interest drawn on
France must be protested for so much as is suppUed to them. When
the facts on that head are stated, it will be easy to judge whether this
is a pretext or a reason. The amount of the bills to be drawn and pay-
able by the loth March, 1779, was two milUons and a half. We had
stated this to the ministry here, and desired that sum from them for
the payment. If they fvimished it the bills would be paid; if not,
they must be protested; Dr. Franklin not having the command of
above 400,000 hvres. If the bills were to be protested at all, was it,
or could it be, material whether they were protested for 2,050,000 or
for 2,000,000? The starving, disgracing, and affronting two Com-
missioners would not make any greater difference for half a year, till
they could have had the ftirther commands of Congress, and as large
a sum as the whole of this was lavished upon his nephew in a single
article of accounts. (-^- L-)

VOL. VIII. — 4.

50 The Works of [1779

cilement and harmony in conducting the pubUc
business neither was nor is Dr. Franklin's intention,
and that as nothing interrupted that harmony so
much as a persuasion in him that we should never
lend ourselves to his private views, as Mr. Deane
did, so the same principle will forever prevent him
from acting in conformity with the wishes of Con-
gress, expressed in that wise resolve. I will give
another instance, which is conclusive in showing
this to be his unalterable disposition. Upon the
death of Mr. Morris, my brother, having observed
that Dr. Franklin's determination to provide for
his nephew, Mr. Williams, and his suspicions that
we were resolved to oppose him, prevented all har-
mony, and was greatly injurious to the public
business, was in hopes of removing all cause of dis-
agreement and contest by appointing Mr. WilUams
joint deputy commercial agent with Mr. John Lloyd,
of South Carolina, till the pleasure of Congress
should be known. From the same views, Mr. Izard
and myself approved of the plan, and to strengthen
the bands of union it was proposed to do it with the
approbation of the Commissioners. My brother,
therefore, wrote to us for our concurrence. Dr.
Franklin and Mr. Deane refused it, and the former
in the most explicit terms under his hand. Mr.
Lloyd declined acting without the concurrence of
the Commissioners, because he had seen the im-
possibility of executing the office while they author-
ized an opposition to it ; and Mr. Williams refusing
to accept the deputation without Dr. Franklin's ap-
probation, the plan was frustrated, and my brother

1779] Benjamin Franklin 5'

appointed Mr. Schweighauser, whom Mr. Williams
immediately opposed.

The fairest opportunity of conciliation and har-
mony was thus offered to Dr. Frankhn; and Mr.
Deane, who knew all this, had the unexampled
wickedness to accuse my brother to the people of
having dismissed Mr. WilHams in favor of another.

Dr. Franklin has in his possession the list of all the
papers that were left by Mr. Deane, made by me.
By that he might have seen whether there were any
wanting that related to accoimts he had yet to
settle, and asked me for them, if this, as he says,
had been the real object of his demand, and not that
of getting from me such as might be evidence of
the very undue transactions of Mr. Deane and his
nephew. I have examined, as I promised, all the
papers, and found but one relating to imsettled ac-
counts, which I sent to him.'

Dr. Franklin says in his last letter, that he has
no concern or interest in Mr. Deane 's accusations.
Does he think men so easily imposed upon as to be
persuaded that he has no interest in the event of a
measure which cannot disgrace Mr. Deane without
dishonoring him, as having always concurred with
and vouched for his good conduct? Has he no
interest in my ruin when I have incurred his utmost
malevolence by constantly opposing his schemes
of private interest? Is his hatred of me any secret;
and is he known to be of so mild a character as to

I "Paris, 26 March, 1779.
"Mr. A. Lee presents his compliments to Dr. Frankhn, and has the
honor of enclosing him one of Mr. Schweighauser's accounts which he
found among his papers." (A. L.)

52 The Works of [1779

have no concern or interest in an accusation of him
he hates? To show, too, how Httle he takes a part
with Mr. Deane, upon his being appointed minister,
he put up Mr. Deane 's bust in his drawing-room, as
if Mr. Deane was the most meritorious man of the
present age. The man who he knows has Hbelled
Congress, traduced their servants, and endeavored
to excite popular commotions by what Dr. Frankhn
knew to be most false and wicked accusations; the
man who had acted the impostor here by pretending
to be a Commissioner after his recall, and has, as
much as an individual can do, disgraced the cause
and character of America in the estimation of Eu-
rope, is the person whom Dr. Franklin, the servant
of that Congress whom Mr. Deane has insulted, the
representative of those States he has endeavored
to deceive and disturb, has thought proper to select
and exhibit to the public as his hero and his tutelary
deity. I do not ask whether this is improper.
Could any thing be devised more indecent and more
culpable ? If Mr. Deane 's pride and vanity were cen-
surable for having busts made of himself, as if he
were an emperor, or the favorite of an emperor, what
does Dr. Franklin's conduct deserve, who, after
what had passed, and in his situation, should choose
to set up this man for the public admiration ? ^ From
the sovereign idea he entertains of his own influence,
he no doubt expected by this single act to turn the
opinion here in favor of an impostor, and give credit

^ Whoever is acquainted with the particular genius of this people,
and especially of this place, will know that the setting up this bust at
such a time was very artfully adapted to this purpose. (A. L.)

1779] Benjamin Franklin 53

to accusations which he knew to be malicious, by
showing that Dr. FrankUn was his friend, and still
highly approved of him.

It has been Dr. Franklin's great and, I might say,
sole object since our arrival here, to raise an opinion
that he only was the person confided in by his coun-
try, that he only had power in America and influence
here, and that his will and word were sovereign. The
receiving every application for recommendations to
America, and giving them alone'; transacting the
public business whenever it would contribute to this
persuasion, though otherwise very neglectful of it;
and making appointments sometimes of his sole
authority, were the means by which he operated
that end. The persons about him, countenanced
and rewarded by contracts and opportunities of
jobbing, were assiduous in the same line; and in
depreciating my character as a person of neither
influence, capacity, nor confidence. Dr. Franklin
was the greatest politician in the world. This was
their language, and they have boasted it was the
opinion of this court.

I have reason to think they so far succeeded as
effectually to depreciate the other Commissioners,
because, since the conclusion of the treaty to this
moment, their advice or opinion has never been asked
in any one measure whatsoever. If the ministers
consulted with Dr. Franklin, if deluded by these
arts, believing in his pre-eminent knowledge, and the

" It is true he had good reason to beUeve that I should have refused
to concur in those recommendations, which were generally an im-
position on the person to whom they were given and the country to
which they were sent. (A. L.)

54 The Works of [1779

insignificancy of the other Commissioners, they
should have confined themselves to his advice, let
the measures answer for the wisdom of the adviser.
Either it is a false boast calculated to deceive our
country, that the opinion of him is so high and his
influence so great that he is consulted on all occa-
sions, or else his advice has effected the shame and
ruin of those who confided in him, for it is most cer-
tain that no nation ever lost so much credit and
commerce in six months' time as this has done.
And I think it would be easy to demonstrate that
if Dr. Franklin's jealous and intolerant spirit, to-
gether with the artifices incessantly employed, had
not incapacitated your other Commissioners from
serving their country and the common cause by
their advice and information, such measures would
not have been adopted, nor any such misfortunes
incurred. It has ever been the uniform tenor of
my conduct to communicate to my colleagues what-
ever proposition was made to me, and consult them
in every thing that concerned our joint operations.
Their conduct towards me was generally the re-
verse. Even my separate transactions I constantly
communicated to them, till I had reason to believe
they were reported to Dr. Bancroft and sent to Lon-
don for the bad purposes which Congress has seen
in the affair of Mr. Wharton.

There was not any transaction of more delicacy,
nor in which there was greater impropriety, in any
one Commissioner undertaking to act secretly and
alone, than that of propositions on the part of Eng-
land. I was the first of the Commissioners to whom

1779] Benjamin Franklin 55

they were made. Dr. Berkenhout was the Enghsh
agent whose access to the Enghsh ministry I knew,
and of whose good wishes for the hberties of America
I had every reason to be persuaded that a long and
uniform declaration of his sentiments could give. I
did not hesitate a moment to communicate his letter
to my colleagues and to the minister, and to answer
by their advice. But when Mr. Paul Wentworth
applied to Mr. Deane,^ he was received and answered
without any commimication with me. When Mr.
Pultney came from England for the same purpose,
he was received and answered by Dr. Franklin with-
out any communication with me. Either the jeal-
ousy of me, or some worse motives, prevailed upon
them to incur the danger of transacting such busi-
ness alone. The suspicions that might grow from
it both in the minds of their countrymen and of this
court, and the opportunity it gave to such agents
to assert what they pleased as having passed,^ would

I Hearing while I was in Spain that Mr. Paul Wentworth was in
Holland, and very busy in getting intelligence for the ministry, I was
apprehensive that Mr. Deane, not knowing him, and who by our
arrangement I had reason to expect had gone thither, might be de-
ceived by him. I therefore gave warning of it as follows in a letter
to my colleagues, dated Vittoria in Spain, March 12, 1777: "If Mr.
Deane goes to Amsterdam he is likely to meet with a Mr. Paul Went-
worth, against whom I would wish to caution him." I afterwards
explained Mr. Wentworth 's character to Mr. Deane personally; he
therefore knew with what kind of person he was conferring in private.

(A L.)

^ In fact, Mr. Pultney on his return to London affirmed that Dr.
FrankUn had given the fullest approbation to the terms with which
the Commissioners went over, and every one knows that Governor
Johnston affirmed the same. Mr. Pultney is certainly a man of
character and credit, and whether his assertion is true or not, it is
certain that Dr. Franklin shotdd not have given him an opporttmity of
making it. ('^- L)

56 The Works of [1779

have prevailed with them, unless some stronger
motive operated to refuse any communication but
in conjunction with all the Commissioners. It was
the policy of the English agents to wish to take the
Commissioners asunder and in secret, and therefore
to make their applications separate. But both
policy and honor called upon the Commissioners to
act in concert. In obedience to this duty I not only
communicated to them the former application to
me alone, but have done the same lately with Dr.
Franklin and Mr. Adams. Out of this confidence
it was that Mr. Deane formed the whole of his ac-
cusations respecting my correspondence with Dr.
Berkenhout, of which he would otherwise never have
known. I can most truly affirm that I never con-
sulted with or communicated any thing to Dr.
Franklin or Mr. Deane which I have not had just
reason to believe they turned in some such manner,
whenever it was in their power, to my injury. The
uses made of my memorial to the court of Spain, of
my letter on the robbery at Berlin, of the overtures
made through Dr. Berkenhout, of my letter on the
nth and 12th articles of the commercial treaty, are
among many other irrefragable proofs of what I
advance.

Far from having been ambitious of continuing in
a Commission with such men, I not only meditated
long ago to ask leave of resignation, but consulted
my friends here upon the propriety of doing so.
Nothing but the apprehension of the bad appearance
it might have to the public, and the uneasiness it
might give in Congress, prevented me from desiring

1779] Benjamin Franklin 57

to be dismissed from a Commission with men, with
whom, I have been long convinced, it was not for
any man's honor or safety to serve.

With regard to the ostensible ground of Dr. Frank-
lin's demand of all the papers in my possession, that
there may be some among them which might assist
him in carrying on the public business for the future,
I have, agreeably to my promise to him, examined
all my papers, and finding among them one account
of Mr. Schweighauser which related to unsettled
matters, I sent it to the Doctor immediately. But
he never acknowledged the receipt of it, which is
his constant practice when he means to reserve to
himself the power of admitting or denying the re-
ceipt, as future events may render it politic. In
such arts as these, and in them only, according to
my best judgment, he shows himself a great poli-
tician, at least in the European estimation of that
character. If in any thing else he is really so, I con-
fess it is beyond my comprehension. Would to God
he were in the truest sense of the word the greatest
politician in Europe! Would to God he were the
firmest patriot of the age, and that his talents had
been employed with half the assiduity in promoting
the cause of his country, that his wiles have been in
weaving little plots, sowing pernicious dissensions,
countenancing and covering the most corrupt and
selfish use of all the opportunities which his station
furnished! Arthur Lee.

58 The Works of [1779

DCCXC

TO ARTHUR LEE

Passy, 3 May, 1779.

Sir: — I did write to the gentlemen at Nantes
concerned in fitting out the vessels for America,
offering them the Alliance as a convoy, and ordered
her to Nantes accordingly. They did not choose to
accept that offer, knowing, as I suppose, her weak-
ness, but sailed for Brest, to go with the French con-
voy, without waiting her arrival, and would probably
have been gone long before she could have been fitted
for sea, if contrary winds had not prevented. I wish
your information were true, that she is manned and
fit for such service; it must be from some person
who is unacquainted with the facts, perhaps Mr.
Ford.

I must suppose the merchants are satisfied with the
convoy they have put their ships under, as I do not
learn that they have applied for one more suitable.
I would readily have solicited such an application if I
had understood it to be necessary, being equally de-
sirous with you of their arriving safe, and sensible of
the importance of it. But I have not received a line
from any of them to any such purpose ; and Captain
Landais has assured me that my supposition of his
having men enough to fight his ship on occasion, in
going home, though not enough to man prizes on a
cruise, was a great mistake in my informer; he then
wanted one hundred and fifty men, and I have not
since heard of her having recruited more than forty,
with the exchanged Americans from England. Mr.

1779] Benjamin Franklin 59

Ford may probably be accommodated in the same
frigate that will take Mr. Adams. I have the honor
to be, etc., B. Franklin.

P. S. — I am glad to hear from you that the sup-
plies necessary for Virginia are shipped.

DCCXCI

TO THOMAS VINY

Passy, 4 May, 1779.

Dear Sir: — I received with great pleasure your
kind letter, as I learned by it that my hospitable
friend still exists, and that his friendship for me has
not abated.

We have ha& a hard struggle, but the Almighty
has favored the just cause ; and I join most heartily
with you in your prayers that he may perfect his
work and establish freedom in the New World as an
asylum for those of the Old, who deserve it. I find
that many worthy and wealthy families of this Conti-
nent are determined to remove thither and partake
of it as soon as peace shall make the passage safer;
for which peace I do also join your prayers most
cordially, as I think the war a detestable one, and
grieve much at the mischief and misery it occasions
to many, my only consolation being that I did all in
my power to prevent it.

When all the bustle is over, if my short remainder
of life will permit my return thither, what a pleasure
will it be to see my old friend and his children settled

6o The Works of [1779

there! I hope he will find vines and fig-trees there
for all of them, under which we may sit and con-
verse, enjoying peace and plenty, a good govern-
ment, good laws, and liberty, without which men
lose half their value. I am, with much esteem, dear
friend, yours, etc. B. Franklin.

DCCXCII

TO MRS. PATIENCE WRIGHT ^

Passy, 4 May, 1779.

Dear Madam: — I received your favor of the 14th
of March past, and if you should continue in your
resolution of returning to America, through France,
I shall certainly render you any of the little services
in my power; but there are so many difficulties at
present in getting passages hence, particularly safe

I Mrs. Patience Wright was altogether a very extraordinary woman.
She was the niece of the celebrated John Wesley, but was bom at Phila-
delphia, in which city her parents settled at an early period. Mrs.
Wright was greatly distinguished as a modeller in wax, which art she
turned to a remarkable account in the American war by coming to
England and exhibiting her performances. This enabled her to pro-
cure much intelligence of importance, which she communicated to
Dr. Franklin and others, with whom she corresponded during the
whole war. As soon as a general was appointed, or a squadron begun
to be fitted out, the old lady found means of access to some family
where she could gain information, and thus, without being at all sus-
pected, she contrived to transmit an account of the number of the
troops and the place of their destination to her political friends abroad.
She at one time had frequent access to Buckingham House, and used,
it was said, to speak her sentiments very freely to their Majesties,
who were amused with her originality. The great Lord Chatham
honored her with his visits, and she took his likeness, which appears
in Westminster Abbey. Mrs. Wright died very old in February, 1786.
— W. T. F.

1779] Benjamin Franklin 6i

ones for women, that methinks I should advise your
stay till more settled times, and till a more frequent
intercourse is established.

As to the exercise of your art here, I am in doubt
whether it would answer your expectations. Here
are two or three who profess it, and make a show of
their works on the boulevards ; but it is not the taste
for persons of fashion to sit to these artists for their
portraits, and both house-rent and living at Paris
are very expensive.

I thought that friendship required I should ac-
quaint you with these circumstances, after which
you will use your discretion. I am, etc.,

B. Franklin.

P. S. — My grandson, whom you may remember
when a little saucy boy at school, being my amanu-
ensis in writing the within letter, has been diverting
me with his remarks. He conceives that your fig-
ures cannot be packed up without damage from
any thing you could fill the boxes with to keep them
steady. He supposes, therefore, that you must put
them into post-chaises, two and two, which will make
a long train upon the road, and be a very expen-
sive conveyance ; but, as they will eat nothing at the
inns, you may the better afford it. When they come
to Dover, he is sure they are so like life and nature,
that the master of the packet will not receive them
on board without passes, which you will do well,
therefore, to take out from the Secretary's office be-
fore you leave London, where they will cost you only
the modest price of two guineas and sixpence each.

62 The Works of [1779

which you will pay without grumbling, because you
are sure the money will never be employed against
your country. It will require, he says, five or six of
the long wicker French stage-coaches to carry them as
passengers from Calais to Paris, and a ship with good
accommodations to convey them to America, where
all the world will wonder at your clemency to Lord

N ; that having it in your power to hang, or

send him to the lighters, you had generously re-
prieved him for transportation.

DCCXCIII

TO DAVID HARTLEY

Passy, 4 May, 1779.

Dear Sir: — I received your several favors, viz.,
one of April the loth, one of the 20th, and two of the
2 2d, all on the same day, but by different convey-
ances.

I need not repeat what we have each of us so often
repeated, the wish for peace. I will begin by frankly
assuring you that, though I think a direct, immediate
peace the best mode of present accommodation for
Britain, as well as for America, yet if that is not at
this time practicable, and a truce is practicable, I
should not be against a truce ; but this is merely on
motives of general humanity, to obviate the evils men
devilishly inflict on men in time of war, and to lessen
as much as possible the similarity of earth and hell.
For with regard to particular advantages respecting

1779] Benjamin Franklin 63

the States I am connected with, I am persuaded it is
theirs to continue the war till England shall be re-
duced to that perfect impotence of mischief which
alone can prevail with her to let other nations enjoy
" Peace, Liberty, and Safety." I think, however, that
a short truce, which must, therefore, be an armed
truce, and put all parties to an almost equal expense
with a continued war, is by no means desirable.

But this proposition of a truce, if made at all,
should be made to France at the same time it is made
to America. They have each of them too much
honor, as well as ■'■oo much sense, to listen separately
to any propositions which tend to separate them from
each other.

I will now give you my thoughts on your ideas of
a negotiation in the order you have placed them.
If you will number them in your copy you will readily
see to which my observations refer, and I may there-
fore be the more concise.

To the I St. — I do not see the necessity or use of
five commissioners. A number of talkers lengthens
discussions, and often embarrasses instead of aiding a
settlement. Their different particular views, private
interests, and jealousies of each other, are likewise
so many rubs in the way, and it sometimes hap-
pens that a number cannot agree to what each pri-
vately thinks reasonable, and would have agreed
to, or perhaps proposed, if alone. But this as the
parties please.

To the 2d. — The term of twenty-one years would
be better for all sides. The suspension of hostilities
should be expressed to be between all parties at war;

64 The Works of [1779

and that the British troops and ships of war now in
any of the United States be withdrawn.

To the jd. — This seems needless, and is a thing that
may be done or omitted as you please. America has
no concern about those acts of Parliament.

To the 4th. — The reason of proposing this is not
understood, nor the use of it, nor what inducement
there can be for us to agree to it. When you come
to treat with both your enemies you may negotiate
away as much of these engagements as you can ; but
powers who have made a firm, solid league, evidently
useful to both, can never be prevailed with to dissolve
it for the vague expectation of another in nubibus;
nor even on the certainty that another will be pro-
posed without knowing what are to be its articles.
America has no desire of being free from her engage-
ments to France. The chief is, that of continuing
the war in conjunction with her, and not making a
separate peace, and this is an obligation not in the
power of America to dissolve, being an obligation of
gratitude and justice towards a nation which is en-
gaged in a war on her account and for her protection,
and would be forever binding, whether such an ar-
ticle existed or not in the treaty, and though it did
not exist, an honest American would cut off his right
hand rather than sign an agreement with England
contrary to the spirit of it.

To the ^th. — As soon as you please.

If you had mentioned France in your proposed sus-
pension of arms, I should have immediately shown it
to the minister, and have endeavored to support that
idea. As it stands, I am in doubt whether I shall

1779] Benjamin Franklin 65

communicate your paper or not, though by your writ-
ing it so fair it seems as if you intended it. If I do,
I shall acquaint you with the result.

The bill, of which you send me a copy, was an ex-
cellent one at the time, and might have had great
and good effects, if, instead of telling us haughtily
that our humble petition should receive no answer,
the ministry had received and enacted that bill into a
law. It might have erected a wall of brass round
England, if such a measure had been adopted, when
Friar Bacon's brazen head cried out, time is! But
the wisdom of it was not seen till after the fatal cry
of TIME 's past! I am, my dear friend, etc.,

B. Franklin.

DCCXCIV

to LLOYD

Passy, 4 May, 1779.

Dear Sir: — I received the letter you did me the
honor to write me of the loth past. As you seem
to have some reliance on my advice in the affair you
mention, I ought to give it candidly and sincerely.
And it must, therefore, be, not to accept of the offer
made you. If you carry yowc family to America, it
is, I suppose, with the intention of spending the re-
mainder of your days in your own coimtry. This
cannot be done happily without maintaining the gen-
eral good opinion of your countrymen. Your en-
tering by that door will unavoidably subject you
to suspicions; those suspicions will render your

VOL. VIII. 5.

66 The Works of [1779

situation uncomfortable. I think, therefore, you
had better conclude to stay where you are till peace,
though under some present inconveniences. The
circumstances of such a family will always justify
this, wherever you shall arrive in America. Please
to make my affectionate respects acceptable to your
amiable lady, and believe me, with sincere esteem,
dear sir, etc., etc., B. Franklin.

DCCXCV

TO JOHN ADAMS

Passy, 10 May, 1779.

Sir: — I received the honor of yours of the 29th
past from Nantes. I hope you are before this time
safely arrived at L 'Orient. M. de la Luzerne is mak-
ing diligent preparation for his departure, and you
will soon see him. He and the secretary of the em-
bassy are both very agreeable and sensible men, in
whose conversation you will have a great deal of
pleasure in your passage. What port the ships will
be ordered to I have not yet learned. I suppose that
may partly be left to the captain's discretion, as the
winds may happen to serve. It must certainly be
most agreeable to you to be landed in Boston, as that
will give you an earlier sight of your family ; but as
you propose going immediately to Congress, being
landed in Philadelphia will have some little advan-
tage, as it saves half your journey. I shall take care
to procure the order to the captain from M. Sartine
which you desire, though I should suppose showing

1779] Benjamin Franklin 67

the original letter of that minister, which you have,
would be sufficient.

No public despatches are arrived here since you
left us.

The anniversary of the signing of the treaty was
observed with great festivity by the Congress at
Philadelphia. From Holland I have just received
the resolution of the States-General of the 26th, to
convoy their trade, notwithstanding Sir Joseph
York's memorial, and to fit out directly thirty-two
ships of war for that purpose, which is good news,
and may have consequences.

I have the honor to be, with great regard, sir, your
most obedient and humble servant,

B. Franklin.

DCCXCVI

TO GENERAL BECKWITH

Pa^jSY, 17 May, 1779.

Sir: — Having assured you verbally that I had no
authority to treat or agree with any military person
of any rank whatever, to go to America, I understand
your expression, that " you will take your chance if I
think you may be useful,'' to mean, that you will go
over without making any terms with me, on a suppo-
sition, which you also mention, that my recommenda-
tion will be regarded by the Congress, and that you
shall thereupon be employed in our armies.

Whoever has seen the high character given of you
by Prince Ferdinand (under whom you served) to

68 The Works of [1779

Lord Chatham, which I saw when in London, must
think that so able an officer might have been exceed-
ingly useful to our cause, if he had been in America
at the beginning of the war. But there is a great
difficulty at this time in introducing one of your rank
into our armies, now that they are all arranged and
fully officered; and this kind of difficulty has been
found so great, and the Congress has been so embar-
rassed with numbers of officers from other countries,
who arrived under strong recommendations, that
they have been at above one hundred thousand
livres' expense to pay the charges of such officers in
coming to America and returning to Europe, rather
than hazard the discontent the placing them, to the
prejudice of our own officers who had served from
the beginning, would have occasioned.

Under these circumstances they have not merely
left me without authority, but they have in express
terms forbidden me to agree with or encourage by
any means the going over of officers to America in
expectation of employment. As to my recommenda-
tion, whatever weight it might have had formerly,
it has in several instances been so improperly em-
ployed through the too great confidence I had in
recommendations from others, that I think it would
at present be of no importance, if it were necessary ;
but after that above mentioned of so great a general
and so good a judge of military merit as Prince
Ferdinand, a character of you from me would be
impertinence.

Upon the whole, I can only say that, if you choose
to go over and settle in our land of liberty, I shall be

1779] Benjamin Franklin 69

glad to find you there on my return as a fellow-citi-
zen, because I believe you will be a very good one,
and respected there as such by the people. But I
cannot advise or countenance your going thither
with the expectation you mention. With great
esteem, I have the honor to be, etc.,

B. Franklin.

DCCXCVII

TO THE COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN AFFAIRS

Passy, 26 May, 1779.

Gentlemen: — The Marquis de Lafayette, who ar-
rived here the nth of February, brought me yours
of October 28th, and the new commission, credentials,
and instructions which the Congress have honored
me with. I have not since had an opportunity of
writing, that I could trust; for I see, by several in-
stances, the orders given to private captains to throw
their despatches into the sea, when likely to be taken,
are sometimes neglected, and sometimes so badly ex-
ecuted that the letters are recovered by the enemy,
and much inconvenience has attended their inter-
ception. You mention that you should speedily
have opportunities of forwarding duplicates and
triplicates of the papers ; none of them has ever come
to hand, nor have I received any other line from you
of later date.

in liimmediately acquainted the minister of foreign
affairs with my appointment, and communicated to
him, as usual, a copy of my credential letter, on which

70 The Works of [1779

a day was named for my reception. A fit of the gout
prevented my attendance at that time, and for some
weeks after ; but as soon as I was able to go through
the ceremony, I went to Versailles, and was presented
to the king, and received in all the forms. I deliv-
ered the letter of Congress into his Majesty's own
hands, who in the most gracious manner expressed
his satisfaction. And I have since constantly at-
tended the levee every Tuesday, with the other
foreign ministers, and have taken every proper oc-
casion of repeating the assurances I am instructed
to give of the grateful sentiments of Congress, and
their determined resolution to fulfil religiously their
engagements. Much pains is constantly taken by
the enemy to weaken the confidence of this court
in their new allies, by representing our people as
weary of the war, and of the government of Con-
gress ; which body, too, they represent as distracted
by dissensions, etc. ; but all this has very little effect ;
and when on some occasion it has seemed to make a
little impression, and create some apprehensions, I
have not found it difficult to remove them. And it
is my firm opinion that, notwithstanding the great
losses suffered by the commerce of this kingdom
since the commencement of the war, the disposition
of the court to continue it (till its purpose of estab-
lishing our independence is completed) is not the
least changed, nor their regard for us diminished.

The end of that part of the instructions which
relates to American seamen taken by the French in
English ships had already been obtained. Captain
Jones having had for some time an order from court,

1779] Benjamin Franklin 71

directed to the keepers of the prisoners, requiring
them to dehver to him such Americans as should be
found in their hands, that they might be at Hberty to
serve under his command. Most of them have
accordingly been delivered to him, if not all. The
minister of the marine, having entertained a high
opinion of him, from his conduct and bravery in
taking the Drake, was desirous of employing him in
the command of a particular enterprise, and to that
end requested us to spare him, which we did, and
sent the Ranger home under the command of his
lieutenant. Various accidents have hitherto post-
poned his equipment, but he now has the command
of a fifty-gun ship with some frigates, all under Amer-
ican commissions and colors, fitted out at the king's
expense, and will sail, it is said, about the ist of June.
The Marquis de Lafayette was, with some land
troops, to have gone with him ; but I now understand
the Marquis is not to go, the plan being a little
changed.

The Alliance being weakly manned at first, and the
captain judging it necessary to be freed from thirty-
eight of his men, who had been concerned in a
conspiracy, and unwilling to take French seamen, I
thought it best to send him directly home, as his ship
might be of some protection to the vessels then about
sailing to America, and Mr. Adams, who was desirous
of returning soon, might be accommodated with a
passage in a swift-sailing vessel. I accordingly of-
fered her as a convoy to the trade at Nantes; but
the gentlemen concerned did not think fit to wait for
getting ready, as a French convoy offered, for at least

72 The Works of [1779

part of the voyage, and, the minister requesting she
might be added to Captain Jones' httle squadron, and
offering to give a passage to Mr. Adams in the frigate
with the new ambassador, and to complete the Al-
liance's complement of men, I thought it best to con-
tinue her a little longer in Europe, hoping she may,
in the projected cruise, by her extraordinary swift-
ness, be a means of taking prisoners enough to re-
deem the rest of our cotmtrymen now in the English
gaols. With this view, as well as to oblige the min-
ister, I ordered her to join Captain Jones at L 'Orient,
and obey his orders, where she is now accordingly.

There have been great misunderstandings between
the officers of that ship and their captain, and great
discontents among the men for want of clothes and
money. I have been obliged to make great advances
to appease those discontents, and I now hope the au-
thority and prudence of Captain Jones will be able to
remove, or at least to prevent, the ill effects of those
misunderstandings. The conspirators are detained
in prison, and will remain there, subject to such di-
rections as Congress may think fit to give concerning
them. The courts here would not, because they
properly could not, undertake to try them, and we
had not captains enough to make a court-martial for
the purpose. The sending them to America, with
evidence to convict them, will be a great trouble and
expense, and perhaps their offence cannot be so
clearly made out as to justify a punishment sufficient
to deter by its exemplary severity. Possibly the
best use that can be made of them is to give them in
exchange for as many Americans in the cartel now

1779] Benjamin Franklin 73

operating here. The perfidious conduct of the Eng-
Ush and Scotch sailors in our service a good deal dis-
courages the idea of taking them out of those prisons
in order to employ them.

This cartel is at length brought about by the inde-
fatigable endeavors of an old friend of mine and a
long-declared one to America, Mr. Hartley, mem-
ber of Parliament for Hull. The ship employed has
already brought us one cargo from the prison at
Plymouth. The number was intended for a hundred,
but proved ninety-seven, and she is returned with
as many in exchange, to bring us a second number
from the prison at Portsmouth. This is to continue
till all are exchanged. The Americans are chiefly
engaged with Captains Jones and Landais. The ex-
change is the more remarkable, as our people were
all committed as for high treason.

Agreeably to the seventh instruction, I have earn-
estly recommended the reduction of Halifax and
Quebec. The Marquis de Lafayette joined me
warmly in the application for this purpose, and I
hope we shall in due time see some good effects from
it. I have also in various ways, and through differ-
ent channels, laid before the ministry the distressed
state of our finances in America. There seems a
great willingness in all of them to help us, except in
the controller, M. Necker, who is said not to be well
disposed towards us, and is supposed to embarrass
every measure proposed to relieve us by grants of
money. It is certain that under the resolution, per-
haps too hastily declared, of the king's imposing no
new taxes on his subjects for this year, the court has

74 The Works of [1779

great difficulties in defraying present expense, the
vast exertions to put the navy in a condition to equal
that of England having cost immense sums.

There is also a prevailing opinion that the most ef-
fectual service to us is to be expected from rendering
their marine superior to that of England. The king
has, however, to encourage our loan in Holland, been
so good as to engage, under his hand, to be security
for our payment of the interest of three millions of
livres : but that loan has not yet amounted to more
than about eighty thousand florins. Dr. Price,
whose assistance was requested by Congress, has
declined that service, as you will see by the copy of
his letter enclosed.' To me it seems that the meas-
ure recommended by the wisdom of Congress, for
diminishing the quantity of paper by taxes of large
nominal sums, must have very salutary effects.

As to your finances here, it is fit that you should
know the state of them. When the Commissioners
of Congress made the proposition of paying the inter-
est at Paris of the money borrowed in America, they
understood the loan to be of five millions of dollars.
They obtained from government sums more than

■ Congress had passed the following resolution October 6, 1778:

"Resolved, That the Honorable Benjamin Franklin, Arthur Lee,
and John Adams, or any of them, be directed forthwith to apply to
Dr. Price, and inform him that it is the desire of Congress to consider
him a citizen of the United States, and to receive his assistance in
regulating their finances. That if he shall think it expedient to re-
move with his family to America, and afford such assistance, a gener-
ous provision shall be made for requiting his services."

The Commissioners forwarded this resolve to Dr. Price, who replied
as follows:

"Dr. Price returns his best thanks to the Honorable Benjamin
FrankHn, Arthur Lee, and John Adams, for conveying to him the

1779] Benjamin Franklin 75

sufficient for the interests of such a sum. That sum
has been increased; and, if they could otherwise
have provided for it, they have been from time to
time drained by a number of unforeseen expenses, of
which the Congress had no knowledge, and of others
occasioned by their orders and drafts; and the car-
goes sent to the Commissioners by the Committee
have some of them been treacherously run away
with by the seamen, or taken by the enemy, or, when
arrived, have been hitherto applied toward the pay-
ment of debts, the tobaccos to the farmers-general
according to contract, and the rice and indigo to
Messrs. Hortalez & Co., from whom, by the way, we
have not yet been able to procure any account.

I have lately emplo3^ed an accountant, the son of
our banker, to form complete books of our accoimts,
to be sent to Congress. They are not yet ready.
When they are I shall send them by the first safe
opportunity. In the meantime, I may just mention
some particulars of our disbursements. Great quan-
tities of clothing, arms, ammunition, and naval

resolution of Congress of the 6th of October last, by which he is in-
vited to become a member of the United States, and to give his as-
sistance in regulating their finances. It is not possible for him to
express the sense he has of the honor which this resolution does him,
and the satisfaction with which he reflects on the favorable opinion
of him which has occasioned it. But he knows himself not to be
sufficiently qualified for giving such assistance ; and he is so connected
in this country, and also advancing so fast in the evening of life, that
he cannot think of a removal. He requests the favor of the Honor-
able Commissioners to transmit this reply to Congress, with assur-
ances that Dr. Price feels the warmest gratitude for the notice taken
of him, and that he looks to the American States, as now the hope,
and likely soon to become the refuge, of mankind." — London, January
i8, 1779.

76 The Works of [1779

stores, sent from time to time ; payment of bills from
Mr. Bingham, one hundred thousand livres; Con-
gress bills in favor of Haywood & Co., above two
hundred thousand; advanced to Mr. Ross, about
twenty thousand pounds sterling; paid Congress
drafts in favor of returned officers, ninety-three
thousand and eighty livres ; to our prisoners in Eng-
land, and after their escape to help them home, and
to other Americans here in distress, a great sum, I
cannot at present say how much; supplies to Mr.
Hodge for fitting out Captain Conyngham, very con-
siderable; for the freight of ships to carry over the
supplies, great sums; to Mr. William Lee and Mr.
Izard, five thousand five htmdred pounds sterling;
and for fitting the frigates Raleigh, Alfred, Boston,
Providence, Alliance, Ranger, etc., I imagine not less
than sixty or seventy thousand livres each, taken
one with another; and for the maintenance of the
English prisoners, I believe when I get in all the ac-
counts I shall find one hundred thousand livres not
sufficient, having already paid above sixty-five
thousand on that article. And now, the drafts of
the treasurer of the loans coming very fast upon
me, the anxiety I have suffered, and the distress of
mind lest I should not be able to pay them, have for
a long time been very great indeed.

To apply again to this court for money for a par-
ticular purpose, which they had already over and
over again provided for and furnished us, was ex-
tremely awkward. I therefore repeated the general
applications, which we had made when together, for
aids of money, and received the general answers, that

I779J

Benjamin Franklin 11

the expense of government for the navy was so great,
that at present it was exceedingly difficult to furnish
the necessary supplies; that France, by sending a
fleet to America, obliged the enemy to divide their
forces, and left them so weak on the continent, as
to aid us by lessening our expense, if it could not by
giving us money, etc., etc.; and I was asked if we
did not receive money from Spain. I know, indeed,
of some money received from thence, and I have
heard of more, but know not how much; Mr. Arthur
Lee, as Minister for Spain, having taken to himself
all the management of that affair, and will account
to Congress. I only understand that there is none
of it left to assist in paying Congress bills.

I at length obtained, as above mentioned, the
king's hon for payment of the interest of three mil-
lions, if I could borrow it in Holland, or elsewhere;
but though two eminent houses in Amsterdam have
undertaken it and had hopes of success, they have
both lately written to me, that the great demands of
money for Germany and for England had raised
interest above our limits, and that the successes of
the English in Georgia and St. Lucia, and in destroy-
ing the French trade, with the supposed divisions in
Congress, all much magnified by the British min-
ister, and the pressing application to borrow by sev-
eral of our States separately, had made the moneyed
people doubtful of our stability, as well as our abil-
ity to repay what might be lent us, and that it was
necessary to wait a more favorable moment for pro-
ceeding with our loan.

In this situation I have been applied to by Mr,

78 The Works of [1779

William Lee, and lately, through our banker, by Mr.
Izard, for more money for their expenses ; and, I am
told, there is much anger against me for declining to
furnish them, and that I am charged with disobeying
an order of Congress,"- and with cruelly attempting to
distress gentlemen who are in the service of their
country. They have, indeed, produced to me a re-
solve of Congress, empowering them to draw on the
Commissioners in France for their expenses at for-
eign courts; and doubtless Congress, when that re-
solve was made, intended to enable us to pay those
drafts ; but as that has not been done, and the gen-
tlemen (except Mr. Lee for a few weeks) have not
incurred any expense at foreign courts, and, if they
had, the five thousand five hundred guineas, received
by them in about nine months, seemed an ample
provision for it, and as both of them might command
money from England, I do not conceive that I dis-
obeyed an order of Congress, and that if I did, the
circumstances will excuse it; and I could have no
intention to distress them, because I must know it
is out of my power, as their private fortunes and
credit will enable them at all times to pay their own
expenses.

In short, the dreadful consequences of ruin to our
public credit, both in America and Europe, that must
attend protesting a single Congress draft for interest,
after our funds were out, would have weighed with
me against the payment of more money to those gen-
tlemen, if the demand had otherwise been well
founded. I am, however, in the judgment of Con-

* See Diplomatic Correspondence, Vol. II., p. 446.

1779] Benjamin Franklin 79

gress; and, if I have done amiss, must submit duti-
fully to their censure. Thanks to God, I have this
last week got over the difficulty, so far as relates to
the bills, which will all be punctually paid; but if
the Navy Board sends more ships here to be fitted,
or the Congress continue to draw for the payment of
other debts, the ships will be disappointed, and I
shall probably be made a bankrupt, unless funds
are at the same time sent over to discharge such
demands.

With regard to the fitting out of ships receiving
and disposing of cargoes, and purchasing of supplies,
I beg leave to mention that, besides my being wholly
unacquainted with such business, the distance 1 am
from the ports renders my having any thing to do
with it extremely inconvenient. Commercial agents
have indeed been appointed by Mr. William Lee;
but they and the captains are continually writing
for my opinion or orders, or leave to do this or that,
by which much time is lost to them, and much of
mine is taken up to little purpose, from my ignor-
ance. I see clearly, however, that many of the
captains are exorbitant in their demands, and in
some cases I think those demands are too easily com-
plied with by the agents, perhaps because the com-
missions are in proportion to the expense. I wish,
therefore, the Congress would appoint the consuls
they have a right to appoint by the treaty, and put
into their hands all that sort of employment. I
have in my desk, I suppose, not less than fifty appli-
cations from different ports, praying the appoint-
ment, and offering to serve gratis for the honor of

8o The Works of [1779

it, and the advantage it gives in trade; but I im-
agine that if consuls are appointed they will be of
our own people from America, who, if they should
make fortunes abroad, might return with them to
their country.

The commissions demanded by the agents seem
to me in some cases very high. For instance, Mr.
Schweighauser, in a late account, charges five per
cent, on the simple delivery of the tobaccos to the
officer of the farmers-general in the port, and by that
means makes the commission on the delivery of the
two last cargoes amount to about six hundred and
thirty pounds sterling. As there was no sale in the
case, he has, in order to calculate the commission,
valued the tobacco at ninety livres the hundred-
weight; whereas it was, by our contract with the
farmers, to be delivered at about forty livres. I got
a friend, who was going upon change, to inquire
among the merchants what was the custom in such
cases of delivery. I send enclosed the result he has
given me of his inquiries. In consequence, I have
refused to pay the commission of five per cent, on
this article; and I know not why it was, as is
said, agreed with him at the time of his appoint-
ment, that he should have five per cent, on his
transactions, if the custom is only two per cent., as
by my information.

I have mentioned above the applications of sepa-
rate States to borrow money in Europe, on which
I beg leave to remark that, when the General Con-
gress are endeavoring to obtain a loan, these separate
attempts interfere, and are extremely inconvenient.

1779] Benjamin Franklin 8i

especially where some of the agents are empowered
to offer a higher interest, and some have powers in
that respect unlimited. We have likewise lately
had applications from three several States to this
court, to be furnished with great quantities of arms,
ammimition, and clothing, or with money upon
credit to buy them, and from one State to be sup-
plied with naval stores and ships of war. These
agents, finding that they had not interest to obtain
such grants, have severally applied to me, and seem
to think it my duty as Minister for the United States
to support and enforce their particular demands. I
have endeavored to do so; but I find the ministers
do not like these separate applications, and seem to
think that they should properly come only through
Congress, to whom the several States in such cases
ought first to make known their wants, and then the
Congress could instruct their minister accordingly.
This would save the king's ministers a great deal of
trouble, and the several States the expense of these
particular agents; concerning whom I would add
a little remark, that we have in America, too readily,
in various instances, given faith to the pretensions
of strangers from Europe, who offer their services
as persons who have powerful friends and great in-
terest in their own country, and by that means ob-
tain contracts, orders, or commissions to procure
what we want, and who, when they come here, are
totally unknown, and have no other credit but what
such commissions give them, or, if known, the com-
missions do not add so much to their credit as they
diminish that of their employers.

VOL. VIII. 6.

82 The Works of [1779

I have received two letters from a Frenchman set-
tled in one of the ports of Barbary, offering himself to
act as our minister with the emperor, with whom he
pretended to be intimate, and acquainting me that
his Imperial Majesty wondered we had never sent to
thank him for being the first power on this side of the
Atlantic that had acknowledged our independence,
and opened his ports to us, advising that we should
send the emperor a present. On inquiry at the office
in whose department Africa is included, I learned the
character of this man to be such that it was not safe
to have any correspondence with him, and therefore
I did not answer his letters. I suppose Congress has
received the memorial we presented to this court
respecting the Barbary States, and requesting the
king's good offices with them, agreeably to the treaty,
and also the answer expressing the king's readiness to
perform those good offices whenever the Congress
should send us instructions and make provision for
the necessary presents ' ; or, if those papers have not
yet got to hand, they will be found among the copies
carried over by Mr. Adams, and therefore I only
mention them by way of remembrance. Whenever
a treaty with the emperor is intended, I suppose some
of our naval stores will be an acceptable present, and
the expectation of continued supplies of such stores
a powerful motive for entering into and continuing a
friendship.

I should send you copies of several other memori-
als and public papers; but, as Mr. Adams goes in
the same ship, and has the whole of our transactions

^ See Diplomatic Correspondence, Vol. I., pp. 431, 453, 4^2.

1779] Benjamin Franklin 83

during his time, it is not so necessary by this vessel.
The disposition of this nation in general continues
friendly towards us and our cause, and I do not see
the least diminution of it, except among the West
India merchants and planters, whose losses have
rendered them a little discontented. Spain has been
long acting as a mediator, but arming all the time
most vigorously. Her naval force is now very great
indeed, and as her last proposition of a long truce, in
which America should be included and treated as in-
dependent in fact, though not expressly acknow-
ledged as such, has been lately rejected by England,
it is now thought that her open junction with France
in the war is not far distant.

The Commissioners here have a power in general
terms to treat of peace, friendship, and commerce
with European States, but I apprehend this is scarce
explicit enough to authorize me to treat of such a
truce, if the proposition should again come upon the
tapis. I therefore wish the Congress to consider of
it, and give such powers as may be necessary to whom
they may think proper, that if a favorable oppor-
tunity of making an advantageous treaty should offer,
it may not be missed.

Admiral Arbuthnot, who was going to America
with a large convoy and some troops, has been de-
tained by a little attempt upon Jersey ; and contrary
winds, since that affair was over, have detained him
further, till within these few days.

Since I began writing this letter, I have received a
packet from the Committee, by way of Eustatia and
Holland, sent by Mr. Lovell, containing his letters of

84 ihe Works of [1779

December the 8th, January the 29th, and February
the 8th, with one from the President, dated January
the 3d. Several papers are mentioned as sent with
them, and by other opportunities, but none are come
to hand, except the resolution to postpone the at-
tempt on Canada ; and these are the first despatches
received here since the date of those sent by the
Marquis de Lafayette. I have just received a letter
from Mr. Bingham, acquainting me that the ship
Deane, and the General Gates, are just arrived at
Martinique, and apply to him to be careened, refitted,
and procure a fresh supply of provisions; and that,
though he has no orders, he must draw upon me for
the expense. I think it right to acquaint you thus
early that I shall be obliged to protest his bills.

I have just obtained from his Majesty orders to
the government of Guadaloupe, to make reasonable
reparation to Captain Giddens of Newbury for the
loss of his vessel, sunk in mistake by a battery of
that island. Great preparations are making here,
with much activity in all the seaports, taking up
transports, and building small vessels, proper for the
landing of troops, etc.; so that many think an in-
vasion of England or Ireland is intended. The in-
tention, whatever it is, may change, but the opinion
of such an intention, which seems to prevail in Eng-
land, may tend to keep their troops and ships at
home.

General and Lord Howe, Generals Comwallis and
Grey, Colonel Montresor, and Captain Hammond,
and others, have formally given it as their opinion in
Parliament, that the conquest of America is im-

1779] Benjamin Franklin 85

practicable. This week, as we hear, John Maxwell,
Joseph Galloway, Andrew Allen, John Patterson,
Theophilus Morris, Enoch Story, and Jabez Fisher,
are to be examined to prove the contrary. One
would think the first set were likely to be the best
judges.

Be pleased to present my dutiful respects to the
Congress, and assure them of my most faithful ser-
vices. I have the honor to be, etc.,

B. Franklin.

DCCXCVIII

TO SIR EDWARD NEWENHAM

Passy, 27 May, 1779.

Sir: — I should sooner have sent this passport, but
that I hoped to have had the other from this court in
time to send with it. If you should stay a few days
in England, and will let me know how it may be
directed to you, I can send it to you per post.

I received some time since a letter from a person
at Belfast, informing me that a great number of
people in those parts were desirous of going to settle
in America, if passports could be obtained for them
and their effects, and referring me to you for future
information. I shall always be ready to afford every
assistance and security in my power to such under-
takings, when they are really meant, and are not
merely schemes of trade with views of introducing
English maniifactures into America, under pretence
of their being the substance of persons going there to
settle.

86 The Works of [1779

I admire the spirit with which I see the Irish are
at length determined to claim some share of that
freedom of commerce which is the right of all man-
kind, but which they have been so long deprived of
by the abominable selfishness of their fellow-subjects.
To enjoy all the advantages of the climate, soil, and
situation in which God and nature have placed us, is
as clear a right as that of breathing, and can never
be justly taken from men but as a punishment for
some atrocious crime.

The English have long seemed to think it a right
which none could have but themselves. Their injus-
tice has already cost them dear, and, if persisted in,
will be their ruin. I have the honor to be, with
great esteem, sir, etc.,

B. Franklin.

DCCXCIX

TO

June I, 1779.

The refusal of the Director-General to accede to
the proposition of Mr. Franklin and his pressing
needs determine him, that he may have nothing
wherewithal to reproach himself if the events follow
which he apprehends, to renew his appeal to the
administration. To avoid them, therefore, he asks
one million as a loan. Although this sum will not
suffice for his necessities, he hopes that before it will
be all used he will receive other supplies, either from
America or by borrowing, for which he has authority,

1779] Benjamin Franklin 87

and for which he has caused to be printed the promis-
sory notes of the thirteen States, reimbursable in ten
years at Paris, with annual interest. He offers
these notes at par, and if the administration fails to
realize on them before they fall due, he engages to
take them up with the first funds which he shall have
available for that purpose.

Although by this arrangement the operation ap-
pears more like an investment than a benefaction,
Mr. Franklin will none the less appreciate the service
which will be rendered, and which, he may add, the
interest of the two nations makes a necessity to-day,
if they would not expose themselves to lose the fruit
of their union. B. Franklin.*

DCCC

TO JAMES LOVELL

Passy, 2 June, 1779.

Sir: — I received a few days since, via Eustatia
and Holland, the triplicates of your several favors of
December the 8th, January the 29th, and February
the 8th. The preceding copies of the same dates
never came to hand. I thank you very much for the
newspapers, though the disputes I see in them give
me pain. You observe rightly, that the want of good

^ It does not appear to whom this note was addressed, but probably
to M. Vergennes. It is copied from the Archives des Affaires Etran-
gkres, at Paris, from which copy it is translated. The copy is endorsed
as follows: "Enclosing blank promissory note with coupons." —
Editor.

88 The Works of [1779

conveyances obstructs much the punctuality of your
correspondence. The number of long letters I have
written to America has almost discouraged me from
writing, except by such an opportunity as this. You
may judge of the uncertainty of your letters getting
to hand, when I tell you that though you mention
having sent me quadruplicates of my credentials,
only those by the Marquis de Lafayette have yet
appeared.

I am glad to imderstand that you are taking meas-
ures to restore the value of your money, by taxing
largely to reduce the quantity. I believe no financier
in the world can put you upon a more effectual
method. The English have had a little flow of
spirits lately, from their success against the trade
of France, and the news of the imagined conquest of
Georgia ; but the growing apprehension of a war with
Spain also begins to sober them, and, like people
who have been drunk with drams, they now seem to
have both the head- and the heart-ache. The late
letters from thence are in a more humble style, and
some printed papers of the last post, known to be
ministerial, appear intended to prepare the minds of
the people for propositions of peace. But these ebbs
and flows are common with them, and the duration
of neither is to be relied on.

As I do not find by any of yours that a long letter
of mine to you in July last has come to hand, I send
you herewith a copy of it (though now a little stale),
as it serves to show my continued good opinion of a
gentleman who, by the papers you have sent me,
seems to be hardly used. I have never meddled with

1779] Benjamin Franklin 89

the dispute between him and Mr. Lee, but the sus-
picion of having a good-will to him has drawn upon
me a great deal of ill-will from his antagonists. The
Congress have wisely enjoined the ministers in
Europe to agree with one another. I had always
resolved to have no quarrel, and have therefore
made it a constant rule to answer no angry, affront-
ing, or abusive letters, of which I have received
many, and long ones, from Mr. Lee and Mr. Izard,
who, I understand, and see indeed by the papers,
have been writing liberally, or rather illiberally,
against me, to prevent, as one of them says here, any
impressions my writings against them might occa-
sion to their prejudice ; but I have never before men-
tioned them in any of my letters.

Our scheme here for packet-boats did not con-
tinue.' I wish Congress could fall upon some method
of sending some little light vessels once a month, to
keep up a correspondence more regular. Even the
receiving of letters of a certain date, though other-
wise of no importance, might serve to refute the false
news of our adversaries on both sides of the water,
which have sometimes too long their intended effect
before the truth arrives. I see that frequently little
pilot-boats, of twenty-five or thirty tons' burden, ar-
rive safe from Virginia; the expense of such would
not be great.

I beg leave to recommend earnestly to your civil-
ities M. le Chevalier de la Luzerne, who goes over to
succeed M. Gerard, as the king's minister to the Con-
gress. He bears here a most amiable character, has

^ See Diplomatic Correspondence, Vol. I., p. 284.

90 The Works of [1779

great connections, and is a hearty friend to the Amer-
ican cause. With great esteem, I am, sir, etc.,

B. Franklin.

DCCCI

TO HORATIO GATES '

Passy, June 2, 1779.

Dear Sir: — I received your obhging letter by the
Chevaher de Raymondis, who appears extremely
sensible of the civilities he received at Boston, and
very desirous of being serviceable to the American
cause. His wound is not yet right, as he tells me
there is a part of the bone still to be cut off. But he
is otherwise well and cheerful, and has a great respect
for you.

The pride of England was never so humbled by
any thing as by your capitulation of Saratoga. They
have not yet got over it, though a little elevated this
spring by their success against the French commerce.
But the growing apprehension of having Spain too
upon their hands has lately brought them down to an
humble seriousness, that begins to appear even in
ministerial discourses, and the papers of ministerial
writers. All the happy effects of that transaction
for America are not generally known. I may some
time or other acquaint the world with some of them.
When shall we meet again in cheerful converse, talk
over our adventures, and finish with a quiet game
of chess?

I At this time Major-General in the American army.

1779] Benjamin Franklin 91

The little dissensions between particular States in
America are much magnified in England, and they
once had great hopes from them. I consider them,
with you, as the effects of apparent security; which
do not affect the grand points of independence, and
adherence to treaties ; and which will vanish at a re-
newed appearance of danger. This court continues
heartily our friend, and the whole nation are warm in
our favor; excepting only a few West Indians, and
merchants in that trade, whose losses make them a
little uneasy. With sincere and great esteem and
affection, I am ever, dear sir, etc.,

B. Franklin.

DCCCII

TO THE MARINE COMMITTEE OF CONGRESS

2 Jiine, 1779.

Gentlemen: — I received the honor of yours by
the Marquis de Lafayette, who arrived safe and well
in the Alliance frigate, which you were pleased to put
under my orders.

There had been a conspiracy on board to seize
and run away with the ship to England. Thirty-
eight of the crew concerned in the plot were brought
in under confinement, and the captain was much em-
barrassed with them, and suspicious of many more.
We could not try them here for want of officers suffi-
cient to make a court-martial. The French Admi-
ralty could not take cognizance of their offence.
The captain objected to carrying them back, as both

92 The Works of [1779

troublesome and dangerous. In fine we got leave to
land and confine them in a French prison, where they
continue till further orders.

Captain Landais desired much to have his ship
sheathed here with copper, but having neither orders
nor money in my hands for that purpose, I was
obliged to refuse it. There v/as a great misunder-
standing between him and his officers, and a great
discontent among the officers themselves, who were
in want of clothing and money ; the ship, too, though
new, wanted great repairs, all her iron work being
bad. The agent, Mr. Schweighauser, required my
orders about every thing, and I had letters from him,
from the officers, or from the captain by almost every
post. My total unacquaintance with such business
made it very perplexing to me. I have got it through
at last, and I hear the officers are more contented,
but I hope to have no more such affairs on my hands.
Being informed by the officer who came up from the
captain with the despatches, that he had not hands
sufficient to man prizes if she should be sent on a
cruise; that the captain did not care to supply the
deficiency with Frenchmen; that if she were again
at Boston, now that her character for a swift sailer,
and that of the captain for a good officer, were estab-
lished, of which the seamen were before doubtful,
there was the greatest probability that she would be
fully manned immediately ; and as Mr. Adams wished
for an opportunity of going home, and I heard that
some ships were boimd to North America from
Nantes, to whom the convoy of a frigate quite to the
American coast might be convenient, I determined

17791 Benjamin Franklin 93

to send her back directly, and accordingly offered her
as a convoy to the trade. But as M. de la Motte
Picquet was about to sail from Brest with a squadron
before our frigate could be fitted, and as he offered to
take care of all outward-bound ships who should join
him at Brest, the offer I made was not accepted. All
the American ships went from Nantes to join his
fleet. She was, however, still to go with Mr. Adams,
but receiving the enclosed letter from M. de Sartine,
Minister of the Marine, who at the same time offered
to man her completely if I complied with his request,
I thought it right to oblige him, as the inconvenience
would be only a little longer delay to Mr. Adams in
getting home, and by her extremely swift sailing, of
which they relate wonders, she might in the pro-
posed cruise take prisoners enough to redeem by the
now established cartel the rest of our unfortunate
coimtrymen still in the English prisons. I accord-
ingly acquainted M. de Sartine that I would, agree-
able to his desire, order her to L 'Orient, where she
now is, a part of Capt. Jones' little squadron, which
is ready to sail, if not already sailed, on the intended
expedition.

After all this was thus arranged, Mr. Arthur Lee
wrote to me to urge the sending her with the mer-
chant-ships, and to carry over some despatches of his
and Mr. Izard's that were of great importance, but as
those ships were by this time sailed, and the French
frigate with the new minister and Mr. Adams was to
sail in a week or two, and might carry those de-
spatches, the contents of which I was not acquainted
with, I did not see the necessity of retracting the

94 The Works of [1779

promise I had made to the minister, and thereby
deranging the expedition.

As our ships of war that arrive here require an
amazing expense to outfit them, and the prizes they
bring in often occasion lawsuits and all the embar-
rassment and solicitation and vexation attending
suits in this country, I must beg the Committee
would be so good as to order the several navy boards
to send no more to be outfitted here, without sending
effects to defray the expense, and that if our armed
ships should be still ordered to cruise in these seas, a
consul or consuls may be appointed in the several
seaports, who will thereby be more at hand to trans-
act maritime business expeditiously, will understand
it better, relieve your minister at this court from
a great deal of trouble, and leave him at liberty to
attend affairs of more general importance.

With great esteem and respect, I have the honor,
gentlemen, to be your most obedient and most hum-
ble servant, B. Franklin.

DCCCIII

TO RICHARD BACHE

Passy, 2 June, 1779.

I am very easy about the efforts Messrs.

L ^ and ^ are using, as you tell me, to injure

me on that side of the water. I trust in the justice of
the Congress that they will listen to no accusations
against me that I have not first been acquainted

I Lee. ^ Izard doubtless.

1779] Benjamin Franklin 95

with, and had an opportunity of answering. I know
those gentlemen have plenty of ill-will to me, though
I have never done to either of them the smallest in-
jury, or given the least just cause of offence. But
my too great reputation, and the general good-will
this people have for me, and the respect they show
me, and even the compliments they make me, all
grieve those imhappy gentlemen; unhappy indeed
in their tempers, and in the dark, uncomfortable
passions of jealousy, anger, suspicion, envy, and
malice. It is enough for good minds to be affected
at other people's misfortunes; but they that are
vexed at everybody's good-luck can never be happy.
I take no other revenge of such enemies than to let
them remain in the miserable situation in which
their malignant natures have placed them, by en-
deavoring to support an estimable character, and
thus, by continuing the reputation the world has
hitherto indulged me with, I shall continue them in
their present state of damnation, and I am not dis-
posed to reverse my conduct for the alleviation of
their torments.

I am surprised to hear that my grandson. Temple
Franklin, being with me, should be an objection
against me, and that there is a cabal for removing
him. Methinks it is rather some merit that I have
rescued a valuable young man from the danger of
being a Tory, and fixed him in honest republican
Whig principles ; as I think, from the integrity of his
disposition, his industry, his early sagacity, and un-
common abilities for business, he may in time be-
come of great service to his country. It is enough

96 The Works of [1779

that I have lost my son; would they add my grand-
son? An old man of seventy, I undertook a winter
voyage at the command of the Congress, and for the
public service, with no other attendant to take care
of me. I am continued here in a foreign country,
where, if I am sick, his filial attention comforts me,
and if I die, I have a child to close my eyes and take
care of my remains. His dutiful behavior towards
me, and his diligence and fidelity in business, are
both pleasing and useful to me. His conduct, as
my private secretary, has been unexceptionable, and
I am confident the Congress will never think of
separating us.

I have had a great deal of pleasure in Ben too.^
He is a good, honest lad, and will make, I think, a
valuable man. He had made as much proficiency in
his learning as the boarding-school he was at could
well afford him ; and after some consideration, where
to find a better for him, I at length fixed on sending
him to Geneva. I had a good opportunity by a gen-
tleman of that city, who had a place for him in his
chaise, and has a son about the same age at the same
school. He promised to take care of him, and en-
closed I send you the letters I have since received
relating to him and from him. He went very cheer-
fully, and I understand is very happy. I miss his
company on Sundays at dinner. But, if I live, and I
can find a little leisure, I shall make the journey next
spring to see him, and to see at the same time the old
thirteen United States of Switzerland.

Thanks be to God, I continue well and hearty.

^ Mr. Bache's eldest son.

1779] Benjamin Franklin 97

Undoubtedly I grow older, but I think the last ten
years have made no great difference. I have some-
times the gout, but they say that is not so much a
disease as a remedy. God bless you. I am your
affectionate father, B. Franklin.

DCCCIV

TO CHARLES CARROLL, ESQ., OF CARROLLTON

Passy, 2 June, 1779.

Dear Sir: — This will be delivered to you by the
Chevalier de la Luzerne, who succeeds M. Gerard.
He is a gentleman of a most amiable character here,
and a sincere well-wisher to America. As such I beg
leave to recommend him to your civilities. You
must have heard much of M. de Malesherbes, son of
the Chancellor Lamoignon, and late President of
the Cour des Aides, famous for his eloquent, free,
and strong remonstrances to the late king. This
gentleman is his nephew.

Correspondence between friends in America and
Europe is now miserably cut to pieces by the cap-
tures of vessels. When one writes and the letters do
not get to hand, or if they get to hand the answers
miscarry, by degrees we may come to forget one
another. But I shall never forget the pleasure I had
in your company on our journey to Canada. Please
to remember me when you write to your other com-
pagnons de voyage, and believe me ever, with sin-
cere esteem and affection, dear sir.

Your most obedient and most humble servant,

B. Franklin.

VOL. VIII. — 7.

98 The Works of [1779

P. S. to Mr. Carroll's letter.

In looking over a letter you favored me with,
dated August 12, 1777, and which gave me great
satisfaction at the time, I find one passage which I
did not then answer. It relates to the sending over
artificers of various kinds. You can have no concep-
tion of the numbers that apply to me with that view,
and who would go over if I could assist them by ob-
taining a passage for them without expense. If this
should be thought useful, and Congress could afford
the charge, and could confide in my judgment of the
persons and knowledge of the arts wanted among us,
I am persuaded I could send you over many people
who would be valuable acquisitions to our country.

DCCCV

TO MRS. SARAH BACHE

Passy, 3 June, 1779.

Dear Sally: — I have before me your letters of
October 2 2d and January 17th. They are the only
ones I received from you in the course of eighteen
months. If you knew how happy your letters make
me, and consider how many miscarry, I think you
would write oftener.

I am much obliged to the Miss Cliftons for the
kind care they took of my house and furniture. Pre-
sent my thankful acknowledgments to them, and tell
them I wish them all sorts of happiness.

The clay medallion of me you say you gave to Mr.
Hopkinson was the first of the kind made in France.

1779] Benjamin Franklin 99

A variety of others have been made since of different
sizes; some to be set in the Hds of snuff boxes, and
some so small as to be worn in rings ; and the num-
bers sold are incredible. These, with the pictures,
busts, and prints (of which copies upon copies are
spread everywhere), have made your father's face as
well known as that of the moon, so that he durst not
do any thing that would oblige him to run away, as
his phiz would discover him wherever he should ven-
ture to show it. It is said by learned etymologists
that the name doll, for the images children play with,
is derived from the word Idol. From the number of
dolls now made of him, he may be truly said, in that
sense, to be i-doll-ized in this country.

I think you did right to stay out of town till the
summer was over, for the sake of your child's health.
I hope you will get out again this summer, during
the hot months, for I begin to love the dear little
creature from your description of her.

I was charmed with the account you gave me of
your industry, the table-cloths of your own spinning,
etc. ; but the latter part of the paragraph, that you
had sent for linen from France because weaving and
flax were grown dear, alas ! that dissolved the charm ;
and your sending for long black pins, and lace, and
feathers! disgusted me as much as if you had put
salt into my strawberries. The spinning, I see, is
laid aside, and you are to be dressed for the ball!
You seem not to know, my dear daughter, that, of all
the dear things in this world, idleness is the dearest,
except mischief.

The project you mention, of removing Temple

loo The Works of [1779

from me, was an unkind one. To deprive an old
man, sent to serve his country in a foreign one, of the
comfort of a child to attend him, to assist him in
health, and take care of him in sickness, would be
cruel if it was practicable. In this case it could not
be done ; for, as the pretended suspicions of him are
groundless, and his behavior in every respect unex-
ceptionable, I should not part with the child, but with
the employment. But I am confident that, whatever
may be proposed by weak or malicious people, the
Congress is too wise and too good to think of treat-
ing me in that manner.

Ben, if I should live long enough to want it, is
like to be another comfort to me. As I intend him
for a Presbyterian, as well as a republican, I have
sent him to finish his education at Geneva. He is
much grown, in very good health, draws a little, as
you will see by the enclosed, learns Latin, writing,
arithmetic, and dancing, and speaks French better
than English. He made a translation of your last
letter to him, so that some of your works may now
appear in a foreign language. He has not been long
from me. I send the accounts I have of him, and I
shall put him in mind of writing to you. I cannot
propose to you to part with your own dear Will. I
must one of these days go back to see him; happy
to be once more all together! but futurities are un-
certain. Teach him, however, in the meantime,
to direct his worship more properly, for the deity of
Hercules is now quite out of fashion.

The present you mention as sent by me was rather
that of a merchant at Bordeaux ; for he would never

1779] Benjamin Franklin loi

give me any account of it, and neither Temple nor I
know any thing of the particulars.

When I began to read your account of the high
prices of goods, " a pair of gloves seven dollars, a yard
of common gauze twenty-four dollars, and that it now
required a fortune to maintain a family in a very
plain way," I expected you would conclude with
telling me that everybody, as well as yourself, was
grown frugal and industrious; and I could scarce
believe my eyes in reading forward, that "there
never was so much pleasure and dressing going on,"
and that you yourself wanted black pins and feathers
from France, to appear, I suppose, in the mode!
This leads me to imagine that perhaps it is not so
much that the goods are grown dear, as that the
money is grown cheap, as every thing else will do
when excessively plenty, and that people are still
as easy nearly in their circumstances as when a pair
of gloves might be had for half-a-crown. The war,
indeed, may in some degree raise the prices of goods,
and the high taxes which are necessary to support
the war may make our frugality necessary; and as
I am always preaching that doctrine, I cannot in con-
science or in decency encourage the contrary by my
example in furnishing my children with foolish modes
and luxuries. I therefore send all the articles you
desire that are useful and necessary, and omit the
rest; for, as you say you should "have great pride
in wearing any thing I send, and showing it as your
father's taste," I must avoid giving you an oppor-
tunity of doing that with either lace or feathers.
If you wear your cambric ruffles as I do, and take

I02 The Works of [1779

care not to mend the holes, they will come in time
to be lace; and the feathers, my dear girl, may be
had in America from every cock's tail.

If you happen again to see General Washington,
assure him of my very great and sincere respect, and
tell him that all the old generals here amuse them-
selves in studying the accounts of his operations, and
approve highly of his conduct.

Present my affectionate regards to all friends that
inquire after me, particularly Mr. Duffield and family
and write oftener, my dear child, to your loving
father, B. Franklin.

DCCCVI

TO FRANCIS HOPKINSON

Passy, 4 June, 1779.

Dear Friend: — I received your kind letter of the
2 2d October last, which gave me great pleasure, as it
informed me of your welfare, and of your appoint-
ment to the honorable office of Treasurer of Loans.
I think the Congress judged rightly in their choice;
and exactness in accounts and scrupulous fidelity in
matters of trust are qualities for which your father
was eminent, and which I was persuaded were inheri-
ted by his son when I took the liberty of naming him
one of the executors of my will, a liberty which I
hope you will excuse.

I am sorry for the losses you have suffered by the
Goths and Vandals, but hope it will be made up to
you by the good providence of God and the good-

1779] Benjamin Franklin 103

will of your country, to whom your pen has occasion-
ally been of service.

I am glad the enemy have left something of my
gimcrackery that is capable of affording you pleas-
ure. You are therefore very welcome to the use of
my electrical and pneumatic machines as long as you
think proper.

I enclose you a httle piece or two of Oxford wit,
which I have lately received, hoping they may afford
you a few minutes' amusement. Present my re-
spects to your good mother and sisters, and believe
me ever, my dear friend, your most affectionate,

B. Franklin.

P. S. — Permit me to recommend the new Minister,
the Chevalier de Luzerne, to your civilities, as a
gentleman of most amiable character here, and a
hearty friend of the American cause. If you can in
any respect be serviceable to him, you will much
oblige me.

DCCCVII

TO WILLIAM GREENE, GOVERNOR OF RHODE ISLAND

^ Passy, June, 1779.

Dear Sir: — I received your kind letter of Decem-
ber loth, with the bills of exchange for two hundred
and sixteen dollars, and with the list of goods you
would have in return. As I live far from any sea-
port, and am unacquainted with merchandise, I sent
the bills with your order directly to my nephew at
Nantes, who will, I doubt not, accomplish it to your

I04 The Works of

.1779

satisfaction. I shall be glad of any opportunity of
being serviceable to your son-in-law, both for your
sake and his father's.

Your letter, with the first set of the bills, did not
come to hand, which I regret the more, as by that
means I have lost Mrs. Greene's letter, which you tell
me was enclosed. Present my affectionate respects
to her, and my love, with that of my grandson, to
honest Ray, of whose welfare I am very glad to hear,
and of his progress in his learning.

If my sister continues under your hospitable roof,
let her know that I hope to receive hers of the 7th
that you mention. Tell her I have not time now
to write to her, but will by the next opportunity,
and that I am well, and love her as well as ever.
With great esteem and respect, etc.,

B. Franklin.

P. S. — If the Chevalier de la Luzerne should pass
through your government, I recommend him warmly
to your civilities. He goes over to supply the place
of M. Gerard as his Most Christian Majesty's minis-
ter to the Congress. He is a gentleman of a most
amiable character here, has great connections, and is
a hearty friend to America.

DCCCVIII

TO HONORABLE THE COUNCIL OF THE MASSACHUSETTS

BAY

Passy, 4 June, 1779.

Honorable Gentlemen: — The Commissioners at
this court received the letter you did them the honor

1779] Benjamin Franklin 105

of writing to them recommending the Marquis de
Lafayette. I immediately sent it to be perused by
the minister, who desires to have a copy of it. He
was very favorably received by his Majesty, and has
had given him a regiment of dragoons. He retains
the warmest zeal for the American cause and affection
for the people, and has been continually moving
something or other with the ministry for the advan-
tage of America ever since his arrival. The Cheva-
lier De Ramondis, too, retains the most grateful
sense of the attention paid him by your government
during his illness under the loss of his arm. Several
other officers speak highly in favor of our country on
account of the civilities they received there, which
has a very good effect here, and evinces the wisdom
of the conduct you are accustomed to pursue with
regard to strangers of merit. I thought it right to ac-
quaint you with these circumstances, and I do it with
more pleasure, as it gives me an opportunity of as-
suring you of the great respect with which I have
the honor to be, etc., B. Franklin.

P. S. — If the Chevalier de la Luzerne, who is go-
ing to America to succeed M. Gerard as minister
from this court, should happen to put into Boston
you will find him every way deserving the civilities
he may receive independent of his public character.
He is much esteemed and respected here, has great
connections, and is a hearty friend to the cause of
liberty and America.

io6 The Works of [1779

DCCCIX

TO JOHN JAY

Passy, 9 June, 1779.

Dear Sir: — I received a few days since, by way
of St. Eustatia, the duplicate of a letter you did
me the honor to write me of 3d January. But the
act of Congress of December 23d which you men-
tion, is not come to hand.

Col. S. Duicks, whom the secretary names to you,
called here in his way to Holland, and brought me
a recommendatory letter from Governor Trumbull,
but neither himself nor that letter mentioned any
thing of his business in Holland, except to see his
friends; so that I yet know of nothing to the pur-
port of that act. The other, of January ist, is come
to hand. Besides the reason given in it for defer-
ring the expedition to Canada, there is one that
would weis^h much with me, and that is our want of
sufficient quantity of hard money. The Canadians
are afraid of paper, and would never take the Con-
gress money. To enter a country which you mean
to make a friend of, with an army that must have oc-
casion every day for fresh provision, horses, carriage
labor of every kind, having no acceptable money to
pay to those that serve you, and to be obliged, there-
fore, from the necessity of the case, to take that ser-
vice by force, is the sure way to disgust, offend, and
by degrees make enemies of the whole people, after
which all your operations will be more difficult, all
your motions discovered, and every endeavor used to
have you driven back out of their country.

1779] Benjamin Franklin 107

I need not recommend the Chevalier de la Luzerne
to the President of Congress. His public character
will recommend him sufficiently to all the respect and
consideration due to the minister of so great and
good a prince as the king of France, our ally. I
shall only mention that his private character here is
an excellent one, and that he is connected by relation
to some of the greatest and best people of this coun-
try. I hope that his residence with us will be made
agreeable to him. I have written largely to the
Committee. By our last advices from Holland
the English interest diminishes there, and from Eng-
land they write that the daily apprehensions of a
war with Spain begin to have a serious effect in dis-
posing people generally to wish for peace. Great
preparations are making here in all the seaports, and
this summer will probably produce some important
action. With great respect and esteem, etc., etc.,

B. Franklin.

DCCCX

TO MR. BACHE (hIS SON-IN-LAW)

^ Passy, 9 Jtuie, 1779.

Dear Sir: — I have received yours of June [Jan-
uary?] 1 6th. You observe that you seldom hear
from me. I have the same reason to complain, but
I do not complain of you. It is the loss of ships, and
the sinking of despatches when chased that cuts our
correspondence to pieces.

Yours of October 2 2d gave me a good deal of

io8 The Works of [1779

satisfaction in informing me of the adventures of
your family, your return to Philadelphia, welfare,
etc.

You desire me to set the price of the printing-
house sold to Virginia; but I have received no ac-
coimt of the particulars whereof it consisted. Did
they take the cases as well as the types ? What were
the number? There was a large mahogany press
that cost me twenty-five guineas, and a small one
that cost me twelve guineas; did they take those?
And did they take all the letters, flowers, etc., etc.,
except the five cases of money types which you say
the Congress have taken? ... I hope, indeed,
they did not take the presses ; for I should be unwill-
ing to part with them, as they were made under my
own inspection, with improvements; and also a
stone belonging to the press, and a number of iron
chases, or frames, for fixing the pages, and many
other things which I know not whether they have
taken or not, which may be valued by any printer.

The script letters which the Congress have taken,
cost me double the price of common letters of the
same sizes; the long pica and long primer bill I re-
member amounted to forty pounds sterling. What I
gave for the larger sort I have forgotten, but suppose
about ten pounds. You may therefore settle that in
the same manner as to the advance, etc. And when
you are paid you may send [End of record.]

1779] Benjamin Franklin 109

DCCCXI

TO MESSRS. J. ROCQUETTE, I. ELSVIER, AND BROTHERS
ROCQUETTE

Passy, 13 June, 1779.

Gentlemen: — I received your favor of the 7th
inst., enclosing two notes of the United States for
one thousand dollars each, for my inspection, which I
return enclosed. I have not yet seen the resolution
mentioned therein, but, by what I can recollect from
the face of the notes themselves, I judge that the
dollars for which the notes are given were of paper-
money borrowed, and that the interest will be paid
and the principal repaid in the same paper, which is
now in state of great depreciation. If before the
time of payment it should fall still lower, the pos-
sessor of the notes will be so much the loser. If, on
the contrary, they should rise in value, of which,
from the measures taken for that purpose there is
great appearance, the possessor will be in propor-
tion a gainer. The interest will be paid every year,
but is payable only at the loan office in America
from whence the bills issued, and to that end they
must be produced there, that the payment may be
endorsed. These bills have therefore been improp-
erly brought to Europe, being of less value here, as
they must return to have their effect, and, being sola
bills, payable to the bearer, they have not the ss.me
security from the dangers of the sea that bills of ex-
change usually have ; for they may not only be lost
or destroyed by accidents, but, if taken, the enemy
will reap the benefit of them. The insurance of

no The Works of [1779

them back is therefore a proportionate diminution of
their value. At what value they are at present cur-
rent in America I cannot inform you, that depending
on the fluctuating state of the paper there ; nor do I
know where they can be so well negotiated as the
place where they are payable.
I have the honor to be, etc.,

B. Franklin.

DCCCXII

TO MR. AR. GILLON, COMME.

Passy, 5 July, 1779.

Sir: — I received the honor of yours dated the 29th
past. The zeal you show for the relief of Carolina is
very laudable ; and I wish it was in my power to se-
cond it by complying with your proposition. But the
little squadron which you suppose to be in my dispo-
sition, is not, as you seem to imagine, fitted out at
the expense of the United States; nor have I any
authority to direct its operations. It was from the
beginning destined by the concerned for a particular
purpose. I have only, upon a request that I could
not refuse, lent the Alliance to it, hoping the enter-
prise may prove more advantageous to the common
cause than her cruise could be alone. I suppose, too,
that they have sailed before this time. Your other
scheme for raising a sum of 1,800,000 livres by sub-
scription throughout France, to be advanced to the
State of South Carolina on an interest of seven per
cent., etc., being mixed with a commercial plan, is so

i779l Benjamin Franklin m

far out of my way, and what I cannot well judge of,
but in the present circumstances I should think it not
likely to succeed. However, as I am charged to pro-
cure a loan for the United States at a lower interest,
I can have no hand in encouraging this particular
loan, as it interferes with the other. And I cannot
but observe that the agents from our different States
running all over Europe begging to borrow money at
high interest, has given such an idea of our poverty
and distress as has exceedingly hurt the general
credit, and made the loan for the United States al-
most impracticable. With great esteem, I have the
honor to be, etc., B. Franklin.

DCCCXIII

TO MR. WILLIAMS

Passy, 8 July, 1779.

Dear Jonathan: — I received yours of the ist and
2d inst. Enclosed I send as you desire Mr. Lee's
original letter declining any further concern with the
accounts. As it contains some inalevolent insinua-
tions relating to them that are groundless, I think it
right you should at the same time see my observa-
tions on them, in the drafts of a letter I intended to
send him in answer, but which on second thoughts I
did not send, merely to avoid a continued altercation,
for which I had neither time nor inclination, and he
abundance of both.

I am much obliged to the gentlemen who have
undertaken the trouble of examining your accounts.

112 The Works of [1779

and if they think fit to join Commodore Gillon to
their number, and he will be so good as to accept,
it will be very agreeable to me. I am sorr}-' that M.
Schweighauser declines it, as he was put into our
business by Messrs. Lee, and it was therefore I named
him in the request, though not an American.

I request you will make inquiry concerning the
complaints contained in two papers I enclose, which
were handed to me from the Spanish ambassador.

I suspect that some of the English cruisers do
sometimes personate Americans to create mischief.
Let me know if such vessels really went from Nantes.
I am, your affectionate uncle,

B. Franklin.

DCCCXIV

TO JOHN PAUL JONES

Passy, 8 Jiily, 1779-

Dear Sir: — I received your favors of the 2d and
4th instant. I am sorry for the accidents that have
obliged your little squadron to return and refit ; but
I hope all may be for the best. Some days since, M.
de Chaumont handed to me the substance of a letter
in French, which contained heads of the instructions
that M. de Sartine wished me to give you. I had
them translated and put into the form of a letter to
you, which I signed and gave back to M. de Chau-
mont, who, I suppose, has sent it to you. I have no
other orders to give ; for, as the court is at the chief
expense, I think they have the best right to direct.

1779] Benjamin Franklin 113

I observe what you write about a change of the
destination; but when a thing has been once con-
sidered and determined on in council, they do not
care to resume the consideration of it, having much
business on hand, and there is not now time to obtain
a reconsideration. It has been hinted to me that the
intention of ordering your cruise to finish at the
Texel is with a view of getting out that ship ; but this
should be kept a secret.

I can say nothing about Captain Landais' prize. I
suppose the minister has an account of it, but I have
heard nothing from him about it. If he reclaims it
on account of his passport, we must then consider
what is to be done. I approve of the careenage pro-
posed for the Alliance as a thing necessary. As she
is said to be a remarkably swift sailer, I should hope
you might by her means take some privateers, and a
number of prisoners, so as to continue the cartel, and
redeem all our poor countrymen. My best wishes
ever attend you. I am, etc.,

B. Franklin.

DCCCXV

TO JONATHAN WILLIAMS

Dear Cousin: — The bearer M. Genet, Jr., a young
gentleman of excellent character, goes to Nantes
with an intention of spending a little time there
in improving himself in the English language by
conversing among our countrymen. I desire you
would introduce him to their acquaintance, and I

VOL. VIII. 8.

114 The Works of [1779

recommend him warmly to all your civilities, which
I shall esteem as done to myself.
I am ever,

Your affectionate uncle,

B. Franklin.

DCCCXVI

TO MR. DUBOURG

Passy, 13 August, 1779.

Dear Sir: — Having begun the affair of our loan
by the means of our friend, M. Ferdinand Grand,
banker. Rue Montmartre, he is in possession of all
the particulars relating to it, and can fully satisfy
the curiosity of the person who inquires through
you. I need only mention, in answer to yotir eighth
query, that the money borrowed being to be laid out
in France for arms, ammunition, soldiers' clothing,
etc., it will not answer our purpose to take any
money but such as is current in France, and the
American paper has no business here. Those who
have brought any of it into France — except bills
of exchange — ^have committed a folly in exposing
their property to two risks for nothing, as it must go
back again to find its value.

With regard to your proposition concerning your
property in America, I should be glad to assist you
in it, but I do not conceive it practicable. First, be-
cause the Congress has no lands in its disposition;
the vacant lands are all in some or other of the
particular States; they dispose of them by general

1779] Benjamin Franklin 115

rules, and an application to them for a deviation
from these general rules in favor of a particular per-
son will hardly be attended to, for they will appre-
hend that having done it in favor of one they will be
urged to do it for many, which would be attended
with many great public inconveniences.

I am ever, my dear friend, etc., etc.

DCCCXVII

TO THE MARQUIS DE LAFAYETTE

Passy, 19 August, 1779.

Dear Sir: — I have just now received your favor
of the 17th. I wrote to you a day or two ago, and
have little to add. You ask my opinion what con-
duct the English will probably hold on this occasion,^
and whether they will not rather propose a negotia-
tion for a peace. I have but one rule to go by in
judging of those people, which is, that whatever is
prudent for them to do they will omit, and what is
most imprudent to be done they will do it. This,
like other general rules, may sometimes have its ex-
ceptions ; but I think it will hold good for the most
part, at least while the present ministry continues, or,
rather, while the present madman has the choice of
ministers.

You desire to know whether I am satisfied with
the ministers here ? It is impossible for anybody to

I Proposed descent of a French army on the coast of England, for
which the French government were now preparing; but the plan was
tdtimately laid aside.

ii6 The Works of [1779

be more so. I see they exert themselves greatly in
the common cause, and do every thing for us they
can. We can wish for nothing more, unless our
great want of money should make us wish for a sub-
sidy, to enable us to act more vigorously in expelling
the enemy from their remaining post and reducing
Canada. But their own expenses are so great that I
cannot press such an addition to it. I hope, however,
that we shall get some supplies of arms and ammu-
nition, and perhaps, when they can be spared, some
ships to aid in reducing New York and Rhode Island.
At present I know of no good opportunity of writ-
ing to America. There are merchant-ships continu-
ally going, but they are very tmcertain conveyances.
I long to hear of your safe arrival in England, but the
winds are adverse, and we must have patience. With
the sincerest esteem and respect, I am ever, etc.,

B. Franklin.

DCCCXVIII

TO MR. DIGGES

Passy, 20 August, 1779.

Dear Sir: — I hear Capt. Conyngham is confined
in England a prisoner. I desire you would take care
to supply him with necessaries, that a brave man may
not suffer for want of assistance in his distress. I
ordered payment of your bill, but it has not yet ap-
peared. I am ever, etc.,

B. Franklin.

1779] Benjamin Franklin 117

DCCCXIX

TO THE MARQUIS DE LAFAYETTE

Passy, 24 August, 1779.

Sir: — The Congress, sensible of your merit to-
wards the United States, but unable adequately to
reward it, determined to present you with a sword,
as a small mark of their grateful acknowledgment.
They directed it to be ornamented with suitable de-
vices. Some of the principal actions of the war, in
which you distinguished yourself by your bravery and
conduct, are therefore represented upon it. These,
with a few emblematic figures, all admirably well
executed, make its principal value. By the help of
the exquisite artists France affords, I find it easy to
express every thing but the sense we have of your
worth and our obligations to you. For this, figures
and even words are found insufficient. I therefore
only add that, with the most perfect esteem and re-
spect, I have the honor to be, etc.,

B. Franklin.

P. S. — My grandson goes to Havre with the sword,
and will have the honor of presenting it to you.

DCCCXX

TO MR. CHARLES EPP ^

Passy, 27 August, 1779.

Sir: — I received the letter you did me the honor
to write me, concerning your inclination to remove

^ Procureur at Altorf, Switzerland.

ii8 The Works of [1779

to America. In so great a country as is at present
possessed by the thirteen United States, extending
through such different cHmates, and having such a
variety of soils and situations, there is no doubt but
you might, if you were there, find one to your mind.
Lands in general are cheap there, compared with the
prices in Europe. The air is good, there are good
governments, good laws, and good people to live
with. And as you would probably make a good
citizen, there is no doubt of your meeting with a
welcome among them. But since you are in easy cir-
cumstances where you are, and there is no immediate
necessity for your removing, I cannot advise your
taking such a voyage with a family at this time, when,
if taken by the enemy, you might be subject to many
inconveniences. I have the honor to be, sir, etc.,

B. Franklin.

DCCCXXI

FROM THE MARQUIS DE LAFAYETTE

Havre, 29 August, 1779.

Sir: — Whatever expectations might have been
raised from the sense of past favors, the goodness
of the United States for me has ever been such that
on every occasion it far surpasses any idea I could
have conceived. A new proof of that flattering
truth I find in the noble present which Congress have
been pleased to honor me with, and which is offered in
such a manner by your Excellency as will exceed any
thing but the feelings of my unbounded gratitude.

1779] Benjamin Franklin 119

In some of the devices I cannot help finding too
honorable a reward for those slight services which,
in concert with my fellow-soldiers, and under the
godlike American hero's orders, I had the good-luck
to render. The sight of these actions, where I was
a witness of American bravery and patriotic spirit,
I shall ever enjoy with that pleasure which becomes
a heart glowing with love for the nation and the most
ardent zeal for their glory and happiness. Assur-
ances of gratitude, which I beg leave to present to
your Excellency, are much too inadequate to my
feelings, and nothing but those sentiments may
properly acknowledge your kindness towards me.

The polite manner in which Mr. Temple Franklin
was pleased to deliver that inestimable sword lays
me under great obligations to him, and demands my
particular thanks. With the most perfect respect,
I have the honor to be, etc.,

Lafayette.

DCCCXXII

TO MR. SCHWEIGHAUSER

Passy, 17 September, 1779.

Sir: — I have now before me your favors of July
31st and August 19th.

Your testimony with regard to Mr. Wm. Lee is
fully sufficient to remove the suspicion of his sharing
in your commission. I mentioned it, not as a charge
against him, but as an excuse for you; five per cent,
being, as I understood, more than double of what is

I20 The Works of

.1779

usual. I could wish I had nothing to do with mer-
cantile business, as I am not versed in it. I perceive
that you have abated the commission on the delivery
of the tobacco to one per cent., but then that is one
per cent, paid to your correspondent, and another
one per cent, for yourself. To me it seems that your
commission should be not on the whole sum, but
only on what you paid your correspondent for doing
the business; otherwise we pay twice for the same
service. I must submit, however, to the custom of
merchants. It may be against me, and if it is I sup-
pose it is founded in some reason that at present I
am unacquainted with. But if these two commis-
sions are right, the article for travelling charges, 1,024
livres, wants explanation.

Notwithstanding what I said relating to such of
your drafts as are founded on the part of your ac-
count I have refused none, but honored them all.

I am satisfied with your reason about the date of
your bills. If I should be any time so straightened
for money when in your debt, as that a sudden de-
mand from you would be inconvenient to me, I will

mention it to , and request that your bills may

be drawn at one or two usances.

The Swedish ambassador has presented a memori-
al to M. De Vergennes relating to the prize and
the demanded damages. He mentioned that the
Swedish people were beaten and cruelly treated by
ours. This is so contrary to our custom that I can
hardly believe it. I must answer his memorial, and
therefore wish to see again the papers that I may ex-
amine them. I think I sent them down to you, when

1779] Benjamin Franklin 121

I desired you to get some of the letters translated.
Please to return them to me, and you shall have them
again when wanted for the trial. If you have re-
ceived the opinion of the advocate of the Bureau of
Prizes, which you expected, please to send me a copy
of it.

The two sick persons who came over among the
prisoners from England should undoubtedly be taken
care of till they are able to go home. I wish to
know their names, and the parts of America they
come from. I have no objection to continuing the
allowance to Captain Harris, supposing that he in-
tends going by the first opportunity. Please to pre-
sent my compliments to him, and request him to
inform me about a trunk belonging to M. Louis
Dupre, which was intrusted to his care, and which is
inquired after,

I thought to have had the despatches ready to
send by Captain Samson this day, but there are some
points on which I must wait an answer from the
court, in order to send that answer in my letters;
this may yet require some days, but I think it will
not exceed another week.

I approve of your assisting the American prisoners
that are arriving from Lisbon, in the manner that
Mr. Adams ordered for those come from England.
They were, I believe, generally pretty well clothed
by charities collected there. If any of these should
be apparently in want of great clothing, it will be
well to assist them with what may be absolutely
necessary in that article.

I should think it would be right to discharge Mr.

122 The Works of [1779

Hill, the surgeon. I am sorry he has been kept so
long. In my opinion surgeons should never be de-
tained as prisoners, as it is their duty and their prac-
tice to help the sick and wounded of either side when
they happen to have an opportimity. They should
therefore be considered not as parties in any war, but
as friends to humanity.

I request you to make inquiry by your corre-
spondents in the different ports of Spain, what Eng-
lish prisoners brought in by the Americans were
confined there. When you receive answers, please to
communicate them to me.

I enclose you a copy of what I write to Mr. Wil-
liams relating to my orders about the prisoners. We
must not regard reports.

I have the honor to be, with great esteem, sir, etc.,

B. Franklin.

I will transmit to Congress the memoire relating
to the Baron d'Autroche.

DCCCXXIII

TO COUNT DE VERGENNES

Passy, 26 September, 1779.

Sir : — I received yesterday evening the letter your
Excellency did me the honor of writing to me, to-
gether with the packet for M. de la Luzerne, which I
shall take care to forward with my despatches. I
could have wished it had been possible to write some-
thing positive to the Congress by this opportunity, on

1779] Benjamin Franklin 123

the subject of the supphes they have asked, because
I apprehend great inconveniences may arise from
their being left in a state of uncertainty on that ac-
count, not only as the hope or expectation of obtain-
ing those supplies may prevent their taking other
measures, if possible, to obtain them, but as the dis-
appointment will give great advantage to their ene-
mies, external and internal. Your Excellency will
be so good as to excuse my making this observation,
which is forced from me by my great anxiety on the
occasion. With the greatest respect, I am, etc.,

B. Franklin.

DCCCXXIV

TO MR. NESBIT

Passy, 29 September, 1779.

Sir: — Captain Conyngham has not been neglected.
As soon as I heard of his arrival in England, I wrote
to a friend to furnish him with what money he might
want, and to assure him that he had never acted
without a commission. I have been made to under-
stand in answer that there is no intention to prose-
cute him, and that he was accordingly removed from
Pendennis Castle and put among the common prison-
ers at Plymouth, to take his turn for exchange. The
Congress, hearing of the threats to sacrifice him, put
three officers in close confinement to abide his fate,
and acquainted Sir George Collier with their deter-
mination, who probably wrote to the British minis-
ters. I thank you for informing me what became of

124 The Works of [1779

his first commission. I suppose I can now easily re-
cover it to produce on occasion. Probably the date
of that taken with him being posterior to his capture
of the packet, made the enemy think they had an
advantage against him. But when the English gov-
ernment have encouraged our sailors intrusted with
our vessels to betray that trust, run away with the
vessels, and bring them into English ports, giving
such traitors the value, as if good and lawful prizes,
it was foolish imprudence in the English commodore
to talk of hanging one of our captains for taking a
prize without commission.

I have the honor to be with great esteem, sir,

B. Franklin.

DCCCXXV

TO JAMES LOVELL

Passy, 30 September, 1779.

Sir: — I have within these few days received a
number of despatches from you, which have arrived
by the Mercury and other vessels. Hearing this in-
stant of an opportunity from Bordeaux, and that the
courier sets out fromi Versailles at five this evening, I
embrace it just to let you know that I have delivered
the letters from Congress to the king, and have laid
the invoices of supplies desired (with a translation)
before the ministers; and, though I have not yet
received a positive answer, I have good reason to
believe I shall obtain most of them, if not all. But,
as this demand will cost the court a vast sum, and

1779] Benjamin Franklin 125

their expenses in the war are prodigious, I beg I may
not be put under the necessity, by occasional drafts
on me, of asking for more money than is required to
pay our bills for interest. I must protest those I
have advice of from Martinique and New Orleans
(even if they were drawn by permission of Congress),
for want of money, and I wish the Committee of
Commerce would caution their correspondents not to
embarrass me with their bills.

I put into my pocket nothing of the allowance
Congress has been pleased to make me. I shall pay
it all in honoring their drafts and supporting their
credit ; but do not let me be burdened with support-
ing the credit of every one who has claims on the
board of commerce or the nsLvy. I shall write fully
by the Mercury. I send you some of the latest news-
papers, and have the honor to be, etc.,

B. Franklin.

DCCCXXVI

TO ARTHUR LEE, ESQ.

Passy, 30 September, 1779.

Sir: — I received but yesterday morning, just as I
was going out of town, the letter 3^ou did me the
honor of writing me, dated the 26th inst., respecting
my supplying you with money for your support in
Spain. As I cannot furnish the expense, and there
is not, in my opinion, any likelihood at present of
your being received at that court, I think your reso-

126 The Works of [1779

lution of returning forthwith to America is both wise
and honest.

With great respect, I have the honor to be, sir,
your most obedient and most humble servant,

B, Franklin.

DCCCXXVII

TO THE MARQUIS DE LAFAYETTE

Passy, I October, 1779.

Dear Sir: — It is a long time since I did myself
the honor of writing to you, but I have frequently
had the pleasure of hearing of your welfare.

Your kindness to my grandson in offering to take
him under your wing in the expedition is exceedingly
obliging to me. Had the expedition gone on, it
would have been an infinite advantage to him to
have been present with you so early in life at trans-
actions of such vast importance to great nations. I
flatter myself, too, that he might possibly catch from
you some tincture of those engaging manners that
make you so much the delight of all that know you.
Accept, however, my warmest and most grateful
acknowledgments .

I send you enclosed a newspaper containing the
particulars of Wayne's gallant attack on Stony
Point. This is good news. But it is followed by
some bad : the loss of our little squadron from Bos-
ton at Penobscot, which it is said our people were
obliged to blow up. I hope Count d'Estaing's ar-
rival in America will give us our revenge. Six thou-

1779] Benjamin Franklin 127

sand troops are ordered to the West Indies to secure
your conquests, and, I hope, make more. But I do
not hear of any intention to send any to our country.
I have no orders to request troops, but large ones for
supplies, and I dare not take any further steps than
I have done in such a proposition without orders.
Accept in behalf of the Congress my thankful ac-
knowledgments for your zeal to serve America.
Occasions may offer which at present do not appear,
wherein your bravery and conduct may be highly
useful to her.

May every felicity attend you, is the wish of, dear
sir, your affectionate and most obedient servant,

B. Franklin.

DCCCXXVIII

TO EDWARD BRIDGEN

Passy, 2 October, 1779.

Dear Sir: — I received your favor of the 17th past,
and the two samples of copper are since come to
hand. The metal seems to be very good, and the
price reasonable, but I have not yet received the
orders necessary to justify my making the purchase
proposed. There has indeed been an intention to
strike copper coin, that may not only be useful as
small change, but serve other purposes.

Instead of repeating continually upon every half-
penny the dull story that everybody knows (and
what it would have been no loss to mankind if no-
body had ever known), that George the Third is King

128 The Works of [1779

of Great Britain, France, and Ireland, etc., etc , to
put on one side, some important proverb of Solomon,
some pious moral, prudential or economical precept,
the frequent inculcation of which, by seeing it every
time one receives a piece of money, might make an
impression upon the mind, especially of young per-
sons, and tend to regulate the conduct : such as, on
some. The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom;
on others, Honesty is the best policy; on others, He
that by the plough would thrive, himself must either
hold or drive; on others, Keep thy shop, and thy shop
will keep thee; on others, A penny saved is a penny
got; on others, He that buys what he has no need of,
will soon be forced to sell his necessaries; on others,
Early to bed and early to rise, ivill make a man healthy,
wealthy, and wise; and so on, to a great variety.

The other side it was proposed to fill with good
designs, drawn and engraved by the best artists in
France, of all the different species of barbarity with
which the English have carried on the war in Amer-
ica, expressing every abominable circumstance of
their cruelty and inhumanity that figures can ex-
press, to make an impression upon the minds of pos-
terity as strong and durable as that on the copper.
This resolution has been a long time forborne; but
the late burning of defenceless towns in Connecticut,
on the flimsy pretence that the people fired from
behind their houses, when it is known to have been
premeditated and ordered from England, will prob-
ably give the finishing provocation, and may occa-
sion a vast demand for your metal.

I thank you for your kind wishes respecting my

1779] Benjamin Franklin 129

health. I return them most cordially fourfold unto
your own bosom. Adieu,

B. Franklin.

DCCCXXIX

TO JOHN JAY, PRESIDENT OF CONGRESS

Passy, 4 October, 1779.

Sir : — I received the letter your Excellency did me
the honor to write to me of the of June last, in-
closing acts of Congress respecting bills of exchange
for two millions four hundred thousand livres tour-
nois, drawn on me in favor of M. de Beaumarchais.
The bills have not yet appeared, but I shall accept
them when they do, relying on the care of Congress
to enable me to pay them. As to the accounts of
that gentleman, neither the Commissioners, when we
were all together, nor myself since, have ever been
able to obtain a sight of them, though repeatedly
promised; and I begin to give over all expectation
of them. Indeed, if I had them I should not be able
to do much with them, or to controvert any thing I
might doubt in them, being unacquainted with the
transactions and agreements on which they must be
founded, and having small skill in accounts. Mr.
Ross and Mr. Williams, pressing me to examine and
settle theirs, I have been obliged to request indiffer-
ent persons, expert in such business, to do it for me,
subject to the revision of Congress ; and I could wish
that my time and attention were not taken up by any
concerns in mercantile affairs, and thereby diverted
from others more important.

I30 The Works of [1779

The letters of Congress to the king were very
graciously received. I have earnestly pressed the
supplies desired, and the ministers (who are ex-
tremely well disposed towards us) are now actually
studying the means of furnishing them. The as-
sistance of Spain is hoped for. We expect to hear
from thence in a few days. The quantity is great,
and will cost a vast sum. I have this day accepted
three of your drafts, part of the three hundred and
sixty thousand livres, drawn for on the gth of June ;
but when I ask for money to pay them, I must men-
tion that, as they were drawn to purchase military
stores, an abatement equal to the value may be
made of the quantity demanded from hence; for I
am really ashamed to be always worrying the minis-
ters for more money. And as to the private loans
expected, I wrote in a former letter that our pub-
lic credit was not yet sufficiently established, and
that the loan in Holland had not exceeded eighty
thousand florins, to which there has since been no
addition.

A M. Neufville came from thence to me last spring,
proposing to procure great sums, if he might be em-
ployed for that purpose, and the business taken
away from the house that had commenced it. His
terms at first were very extravagant, such as that all
the estates real and personal in the thirteen pro-
vinces should be mortgaged to him ; that a fifth part
of the capital sum borrowed should every year, for
five years, be laid out in commodities and sent to
Holland, consigned to him, to remain in his hands
till the term (ten years) stipulated for final payment

1779] Benjamin Franklin 131

was completed, as a security for the punctuality of it,
when he was to draw the usual commissions; that
all vessels or merchandise coming from America to
Europe should be consigned to him or his corre-
spondents, etc., etc. As I rejected these with some
indignation, he came down to the more reasonable
one of doing the business as it was done by the other
house, who, he said, could do no more, being destitute
of the interest which he possessed.

I did not care abruptly to change a house that had
in other respects been very friendly and serviceable
to us, and thereby throw a slur upon their credit,
without a certainty of mending our affairs by it, and
therefore told M. Neufville that if he could procure
and show me a list of subscribers amounting to the
sum he mentioned, or near it, I would comply with
his proposition. This he readily and confidently
undertook to do. But, after three months, during
which he acquainted me from time to time that the
favorable moment had not yet come, I received, in-
stead of the subscription, a new set of propositions,
among the terms of which were an additional one per
cent., and a patent from Congress, appointing him
and his sons " Commissioners for Trade and Naviga-
tion, and Treasurers of the General Congress and of
every private State of the Thirteen United States of
North America, through the Seven United Provinces,''
with other extravagancies ; which I mention, that it
may be understood why I have dropped a correspond-
ence on this subject with a man who seemed to me
a vain promiser, extremely self-interested, and aim-
ing chiefly to make an appearance without solidity,

132 The Works of [1779

and who, I understand, intends applying directly
to Congress, some of his friends censuring me as
neglecting the public interest in not coming into
his measures.

The truth is I have no expectations from Holland
while interest received there from other nations is so
high and our credit there so low; while particular
American States offer higher interest than the Con-
gress, and even our offering to raise our interest tends
to sink our credit. My sole dependence now is upon
this court. I think reasonable assistance may be
obtained here, but I wish I may not be obliged to
fatigue it too much with my applications, lest it
should grow tired of the connection.

Mr. Ross has lately demanded of me near twenty
thousand pounds sterling, due to him from the Com-
mittee of Commerce, but I have been obliged to re-
fuse him, as well as an application made last week by
Mr. Izard for more money, though he has already
had two thousand five hundred guineas, and another
from Mr. Arthur Lee, though he has had five hundred
guineas since the news of his being out of this com-
mission.^ He writes me that he will return to Amer-
ica forthwith if I do not undertake to supply his
expenses. As I see no likelihood of his being re-
ceived at Madrid, I could not but approve his
resolution.

We had reason to expect some great events from
the action of the fleets this summer in the Channel;
but they are all now in port, without having effected
any thing. The junction was late; and the length

^ See Diplomatic Correspondeiwe, Vol. II., pp. 262, 268, 272, 446.

1779] Benjamin Franklin 133

of time the Brest fleet was at sea, equal to an East
India voyage, partly on the hot Spanish coast, occa-
sioned a sickness among the people that made their
return necessary ; they had chased the English fleet,
which refused combat. The sick men are recover-
ing fast since they were landed; and the proposed
descent on England does not yet seem to be quite
given up, as the troops are not withdrawn from the
ports.

Holland has not yet granted the succors required
by the English, not even given an answer to the re-
quisition presented by Sir Joseph Yorke. The aids
will be refused ; and, as the refusal must be disagree-
able, it will be postponed from time to time. The
expectations of assistance from Russia and Prussia
seem also to have failed the English ; and they are as
much at a loss to find effective friends in Europe as
they have been in America.

Portugal seems to have a better disposition to-
wards us than heretofore. About thirty of our peo-
ple, taken and set ashore on one of her islands by
the English, were maintained comfortably by the
governor during their stay there, furnished with
every necessary, and sent to Lisbon, where, on in-
quiry to whom payment was to be made for the ex-
pense they had occasioned, they were told that no
reimbursement was expected, that it was the queen's
bounty, who had a pleasure in showing hospitality to
strangers in distress. I have presented thanks, by
the Portuguese ambassador here in behalf of Con-
gress; and I am given to understand that probably
in a little time the ports of that nation will be open

134 The Works of [1779

to us as well as those of Spain. What relates to
Spain I suppose Mr. Lee informs you of.

The sword ordered by Congress for the Marquis
de Lafayette being at length finished, I sent it down
to him at Havre, where he was with the troops in-
tended for the invasion. I wrote a letter with it, and
received an answer, copies of which I enclose, to-
gether with a description of the sword, and drawings
of the work upon it, which was executed by the best
artists in Paris, and cost altogether two hundred
guineas. The present has given him great pleasure,
and some of the circumstances have been agreeable
to the nation.

Our cartel goes on, a second cargo of American
prisoners, one himdred and nineteen in number, be-
ing arrived and exchanged. Our privateers have
dismissed a great number at sea, taking their written
paroles to be given up in exchange for so many of
our people in their gaols. This is not yet quite
agreed to on the other side, but some expectations
are given me that it may take place. Certainly
humanity would find its account in the practice of
exchanging on parole, as all the horrors of imprison-
ment, with the loss of time and health, might be
prevented by it.

We continue to insult the coasts of these lords of
the ocean with our little cruisers. A small cutter,
which was fitted out as a privateer at Dunkirk, called
the Black Prince, has taken, ransomed, burnt, and
destroyed about thirty sail of their vessels within
these three months. The owners are about to give
her a consort, called the Black Princess, for which

1779] Benjamin Franklin 135

they ask a commission. The prisoners brought in
serve to exchange our countrymen, which makes me
more wiUing to encourage such armaments, though
they occasion a great deal of trouble. Captain, now
Commodore, Jones put to sea this summer with a lit-
tle squadron consisting of a ship of forty guns, the
Alliance, another frigate of twenty, with some armed
cutters, all under American colors, with Congress
comimissions. He has sent in several prizes, has
greatly alarmed the coast of Ireland and Scotland,
and we just now hear that, going north about, he fell
in with a number of ships from the Baltic, convoyed
by a fifty -gun ship and a twenty-four-gun frigate,
both of which he took, after an obstinate engagement,
and forced several of the others ashore. This news
is believed, but we wait the confirmation and the
particulars.

The blank commissions remaining, of those sent
to us here, are all signed by Mr. Hancock, which
occasions some difficulty. If Congress approve
of my continuing to issue commissions, I wish to
have a fresh supply with the other necessary in-
structions, rules, bonds, etc., of which none are
now left.

M. le Comte de Mallebois, esteemed one of the
best generals in this country, and who loves our
cause, has given me a memorial, containing a project
for a corps here for your service, which I promised to
lay before Congress, and accordingly enclose a copy.
I know nothing of the sentiments of Congress on the
subject of introducing foreign troops among us, and
therefore could give no expectation that the plan

136 The Works of [1779

would be adopted. It will, however, be a pleasure to
him to know that his good-will to serve them has
been acceptable to the Congress.

A Major Deborre, who has been in America, and
some other officers who have quitted our service in
disgust, endeavor to give an idea that our nation
does not love the French. I take all occasions to
place in view the regard shown by Congress to good
French officers, as a proof that the slight these gen-
tlemen complain of is particular to themselves, and
probably the effect of their own misbehavior. I wish
for the future, when any of this sort of people leave
our armies to come home, some little sketch of their
conduct or character may be sent me, with the real
causes of their resignation or departure, that I may
be the more able to justify our country.

Here are returned in the last cartel a number of
French sailors, who had engaged with Captain
Conyngham, were taken in coming home in one of
his prizes, and have been near two years in English
prisons. They demand their wages and share of
prize money. I send their claim, as taken before
the officers of the classes at Dunkirk. I know nothing
of the agreement, which they allege was made with
them. Mr. Hodge perhaps can settle the affair, so
that they may have justice done them. These sort of
things gives me a great deal of trouble. Several of
those men have made personal applications to me,
and I must hear all their stories, though I cannot re-
dress them. I enclose also the claim of two gunners
upon a prize made by the Boston, Captain Tucker.
I am persuaded that Congress wish to see justice

1779] Benjamin Franklin i37

done to the meanest stranger that has served them.
It is justice that establishes a nation.

The Spanish ambassador here dehvered me several
complaints against our cruisers. I imagine that all
the injuries complained of are not justly chargeable
to us, some of the smaller EngHsh cruisers having
pillaged Spanish vessels under American colors, of
which we have proof upon oath; and also that no
such American privateers, as are said to have com-
mitted these robberies after coming out of Nantes,
have ever been known there, or in any other part
of France, or even have existed. But, if any of the
complaints are well founded, I have assured the am-
bassador that the guilty will be punished and repara-
tion made.

The Swedish ambassador also complains of the
taking of a ship of his nation by Captain Landais,
the master of which lays his damages at sixty thou-
sand livres. I understand it was his own fault that
he was stopped, as he did not show his papers. Per-
haps this, if proved, may enable us to avoid the
damages.

Since writing the above, I have received the fol-
lowing further particulars of the action between
Commodore Jones and the English men-of-war. The
forty-four-gun ship is new, having been but six
months off the stocks ; she is called the Serapis; the
other of twenty guns is the Countess of Scarborough.
He had before taken a number of valuable prizes,
particularly a rich ship bound to Quebec, which we
suppose he may have sent to America. The English,
from mistaken intelligence, imagining he had a body

138 The Works of [1779

of troops with him to make descents, have had all
their northern coasts alarmed, and have been put to
very expensive movements of troops, etc.

The extravagant luxury of our country, in the
midst of all its distresses, is to me amazing. When
the difficulties are so great to find remittances to pay
for the arms and ammunition necessary for our de-
fence, I am astonished and vexed to find upon in-
quiry that much the greatest part of the Congress
interest bills come to pay for tea, and a great part of
the remainder is ordered to be laid out in gewgaws
and superfluities. It makes me grudge the trouble
of examining and entering and accepting them,
which indeed takes a great deal of time.

I yesterday learned from M. de Monthieu that
every thing necessary for equipping two frigates, of
thirty-six guns each, such as sailcloth, cordage,
anchors, etc., etc., which he sent to the Congress
from hence two years since, remains stored in the
warehouses of his correspondent, M. Carrabas, at
Cape Frangois, having never been called for. Prob-
ably by the miscarriage of letters the Navy Board
never heard of those goods being there. I shall,
nevertheless, leave the application I have lately made
for materials for a frigate of thirty-six guns to take
its course. But I send you herewith copies of two
invoices of the cargo of the Therese, one of which was
sent by us, the other by M. de Beaumarchais, to the
end that inquiry may be made after the whole.

On this occasion give me leave to remark that, of
all the vast quantities of goods we have sent you by
many different vessels since my being in France, we

1779] Benjamin Franklin 139

never were happy enough to receive the least scrip of
acknowledgment that they had ever come to hand,
except from Mr. Langdon, of a cargo arrived at Ports-
mouth, and I think of one more. This is doubtless
owing to the interruption our correspondence has
met with, and not altogether to neglect. But as
such advices of receipt may be made in short letters,
it would be well to send more copies. The follow-
ing is a matter of less importance. It is two years,
I believe, since I sent the monument of General
Montgomery. I have heard that the vessel arrived
in North Carolina, but nothing more. I should be
glad to know of its coming to hand, and whether it
is approved. Here it was admired for the goodness
and beauty of the marble and the elegant simplicity
of the design. The sculptor has had an engraving
made of it, of which I enclose a copy. It was con-
trived to be affixed to the wall within some church,
or in the great room where the Congress met. Direc-
tions for putting it up went with it. All the parts
were well packed in strong cases. ^ With the greatest
respect, etc., B. Franklin.

P. S. — October 28th. I kept the packet in hopes
of sending a more explicit account of what might be
expected in regard to the supplies. The express,
which was daily expected from Spain when I began
this letter, arrived but a few days since. I am now
informed that court is understood to be in treaty
with the Congress in America to furnish a sum of

' This moniunent is erected in the back of St. Paul's Chitrch, in
New York.

HO The Works of [1779

hard money there, and on that account excuses itself
from sharing in the expense of furnishing these sup-
pHes. This has a httle deranged the measures in-
tended to be taken here, and I am now told that the
whole quantity of goods demanded can hardly be
furnished, but that as soon as the court returns from
Marly the ministers will consult, and do the best they
can for us. The arms, I hear, are in hand at Charle-
ville. I am unwilling to keep the packet any longer,
lest she should arrive on our coasts too far in the
winter and be blown off. I therefore send away
the despatches ; but if I have the result of the coun-
cil in time to reach her by post, I will send it in a
separate letter. The hearty good- will of the ministry
may be depended on, but it must be remembered
that their present expenses are enormous.

DCCCXXX

TO JOHN PAUL JONES

Passy, 15 October, 1779.

Dear Sir: — I received the account of your cruise
and engagement with the Serapis, which you did me
the honor to send me from the Texel. I have since
received your favor of the 8th, from Amsterdam.
For some days after the arrival of your express,
scarce any thing was talked of at Paris and Ver-
sailles but your cool conduct and persevering bravery
during that terrible conflict. You may believe that
the impression on my mind was not less strong than

1779] Benjamin Franklin 141

on that of others; but I do not choose to say in a
letter to yourself all I think on such an occasion.

The ministry are much dissatisfied with Captain
Landais, and M. de Sartine has signified to me in
writing that it is expected that I should send for him
to Paris, and call him to account for his conduct,
particularly for deferring so long his coming to
your assistance, by which means, it is supposed, the
States lost some of their valuable citizens, and the
king lost many of his subjects, volunteers in your
ship, together with the ship itself.

I have, accordingly, written to him this day, ac-
quainting him that he is charged with disobedience
of orders in the cruise, and neglect of his duty in the
engagement; that a court-martial being at this time
inconvenient, if not impracticable, I would give him
an earlier opportunity of offering what he has to
say in his justification, and for that purpose direct
him to render himself immediately here, bringing
with him such papers or testimonies as he may think
useful in his defence. I know not whether he will
obey my orders, nor what the ministry would do with
him if he comes; but I suspect that they may, by
some of their concise operations, save the trouble
of a court-martial. It will, however, be well for you
to furnish me with what you may judge proper to
support the charges against him, that I may be able
to give a just and clear account to Congress. In the
meantime it will be necessary, if he should refuse to
come, that you should put him under an arrest, and
in that case, as well as if he comes, that you should
either appoint some person to the command, or take

142 The Works of [1779

it upon yourself ; for I know of no person to recom-
mend to you as fit for that station.

I am uneasy about your prisoners; I wish they
were safe in France.' You will then have completed
the glorious work of giving liberty to all the Ameri-
cans that have so long languished for it in the British
prisons ; for there are not so many there as you have
now taken.

I have the pleasure to inform you that the two
prizes sent to Norway are safely arrived at Bergen.
With the highest esteem, I am, etc.,

B. Franklin.

P. S. — I am sorry for your misunderstanding with
M. de Chaumont, who has a great regard for you.

DCCCXXXI

TO HONORABLE CAPTAIN LANDAIS

Passy, 15 October, 1779.

Sir: — I received the letter you did me the honor
of writing me, the 4th instant, with an abstract of
your journal. I thank you for your care in sending
it so early, and I congratulate you on the success
of your cruise.

But I am sorry to find there are charges against
you for disobedience of orders, and also that the
ministry here think the great loss among the king's
subjects, viz., the French volunteers on board the

* The number of prisoners was five hundred and four.

1779] Benjamin Franklin 143

Bon Homme Richard, was owing to your not coming
up sooner to her assistance, as it is supposed you
might have done. M. de Sartine has in consequence
written to me that it is expected I should cause an
immediate inquiry to be made into your conduct. A
court-martial is the regular way, if you choose it; but
as that may occasion a long discussion, and be in
many respects at this time inconvenient to the ser-
vice, I have (with the advice, too, of your friend M.
de Chaumont) thought it better to give you an op-
portunity of justifying yourself, both to the ministry
and to me, coming directly to Paris, which I do here-
by accordingly desire (or, to use a stronger expres-
sion, as you may think such necessary to justify your
leaving your ship, I do require) that you render your-
self here as soon as possible. I need not advise you
to bring with you such papers and testimonials as
you may thmk proper for your justification, and will
only add that you may be sure of finding in me every
disposition to do that justice to your character which
it shall appear to merit.

I have the honor to be, sir, etc.,

B. Franklin.

DCCCXXXII

TO HONORABLE THE COMMISSIONERS OF THE NAVY
FOR THE EASTERN DEPARTMENT, BOSTON

Passy, 17 October, 1779.

Gentlemen: — I received the letters you did me
the honor of writing to me the 30th of July and i8th

144 The Works of [1779

of August last, by the Mercury packet-boat and by
a French cutter; the other despatches Capt. Sam-
son was entrusted with, came all safe to hand, and
I should have despatched him sooner if I had not
found it necessary to detain him in order to send by
him to Congress some advices of importance which
could not be sooner obtained.

The cruise of our little American squadron, under
command of Commodore Jones, intended partly to
intercept the Baltic trade, has had some success,
though not all that was hoped for. The coasts of
Britain and Ireland have been greatly alarmed, ap-
prehending descents, it being supposed that he had
land forces with him. This has put the enemy to
much expense in marching troops from place to place.
Several valuable prizes have been made of merchant-
ships, particularly two: one from London, three
hundred tons and eighty-four men, with twenty-
two guns, laden with naval stores for Quebec; the
other from Liverpool bound to New York and
Jamaica, of twenty-two guns and eighty-seven men,
laden with provisions and bale goods. These two
are safely arrived at Bergen, in Norway ; two smaller
prizes are arrived in France, and a number of col-
liers have been burnt or ransomed. The Baltic
fleet was met with, and the two men-of-war who
convoyed them, viz., the Serapis, a new ship of
forty-four guns, and the Countess of Scarborough,
oi twenty guns, are taken, after a long and bloody
engagement, and are brought into the Texel. But
the merchant-ships escaped during the conflict, for
which the Alliance and one of the other ships are

1779] Benjamin Franklin i45

blamed, whether justly or not may be inquired into.
Our Commodore's ship was so shattered that she
could not be kept afloat, and the people being all
taken out of her, she sank the second day after the
engagement. The rest of the squadron are refitting
in the Texel, from which neutral place they will be
obliged soon to depart with their prizes and prison-
ers, near four hundred. I wish they may an^ive
safe in France, for I suppose the English will en-
deavor to intercept them. Jones' bravery and con-
duct in the action has gained him great honor.

I condole with you the loss of your armament
against Penobscot, but I suppose the sugar ships
since taken and brought into your port have more
than compensated the expense,' though not the
disappointment of the well intended expedition.
The Congress write for naval stores. I have ac-
quainted them that I have lately been informed
that stores for fitting out two 3 6 -gun frigates, which
we bought here and sent out two years ago, are still
lying in the warehouses of M. Carrabas, at Cape
Frangois, having been forgotten there or never sent
for. Perhaps you may obtain them. The Quebec
ship, if we can get her safe home, will afford large
supply.

I am much obliged to you for the newspapers. I
shall direct M. Schweighauser to send you an account
of the advances made to the officers of the Alliance,
if he has not already done it.

With great respect, etc.,

B. Franklin.

^ Hutchinson, in his diary, says they did.

VOL. VIII. — 10.

146 The Works of [1779

DCCCXXXIII

TO JAMES LOVELL

Passy, 17 October, 1779.

Sir: — The foregoing is a copy of my last. I have
now before me your several favors therein mentioned,
viz., of June 13th, July 9th and i6th, and August 6th.
I received the journals of Congress from January ist
to June 12th, which you took care to send me; but
the first and second volumes, which you mention,
are not yet come to hand. I hear they are at Madrid.
I know not how they came there, nor well how to
get them from thence. Perhaps you can easier send
me another set.

As I hear of the arrival of the Chevalier de la Lu-
zerne, by whom I wrote a long letter to your commit-
tee, I presume you have received it, and that it is
not necessary to send more copies. By this opportu-
nity I write largely to the President. You ask:
" Will no one, imder a commission from the United
States," etc.? Enclosed I send you a copy of the
instructions I gave to Commodore Jones, when it
was intended to send with him some transports and
troops to make descents in England. Had not the
scheme been altered by a general one of a grand in-
vasion, I know he would have endeavored to put
some considerable towns to a high ransom, or have
burnt them. He sailed without the troops, but he
nevertheless would have attempted Leith, and went
into the Firth of Edinburgh with that intention, but
a sudden hard gale of wind forced him out again.
The late provocations by the burning of Fairfield

1779] Benjamin Franklin 147

and other towns, added to the preceding, have at
length demolished all my moderation; and were
such another expedition to be concerted, I think so
much of that disposition would not appear in the
instructions. But I see so many inconveniences in
mixing the two nations together, that I cannot
encourage any further proposal of the kind. This
has ended better than I expected ; and yet a mortal
difference has arisen between Captains Jones and
Landais, that makes me very tmeasy about the con-
sequences. I send you the journal of the cruise.

I am glad to understand that Congress will appoint
some person here to audit our accounts. Mine will
give but little trouble, and I wish much to have them
settled. And for the future I hope I shall have none
to settle but what relate to my expenses.

The quarrel you mention between Mr. Deane and
Mr. Lee I have never meddled with, and have no in-
tention to take any part in it whatever. I had and
have still a very good opinion of Mr. Deane, for his
zeal and activity in the service of his country ; I also
thought him a man of integrity. But if he has em-
bezzled public money, or traded with it on his private
account, or employed it in stockjobbing, all which I
understand he is charged with, I give him up. As
yet, I think him innocent. But he and his accusers
are able to plead their own causes, and time will show
what we ought to think of them.

I send you with this a piece written by a learned
friend of mine on the taxation of free States, which
I imagine may give you some pleasure. Also, a late
royal edict, for abolishing the remains of slavery in

148 The Works of [1779

this kingdom. Who would have thought, a few years
since, that we should live to see a king of France
giving freedom to slaves, while a king of England
is endeavoring to make slaves of freemen.

There is much talk all over Europe of an approach-
ing peace by the mediation of Russia and Holland.
I have no information of it to be depended on, and
believe we ought to lay our account on another cam-
paign, for which I hope you will receive in time the
supplies demanded. Nothing is wanting on my part
to forward them; and I have the satisfaction to as-
sure you that I do not find the regard of this court
for the Congress and its servants in any respect di-
minished. We have just heard from Norway, that
two of the most valuable prizes taken by the Al-
liance, Captain Landais, in the squadron of Com-
modore Jones, are safe arrived at Bergen, viz., the
ship from London to Quebec, laden with naval store,
and that from Liverpool to New York and Jamaica.
They were letters of marque, of twenty-two guns
and eighty-four men each ; I wish we may get them
safe to America. The squadron itself is got into
Holland, with the two prize men-of-war, where they
are all refitting. Great damage has been done to
the English coal trade, and four hundred prisoners
have been taken, which will more than redeem the
rest of our people from their captivity in England,
if we can get them safe from Holland to France;
but I suppose the English will endeavor to intercept
us, and recover their ships if possible. With great
esteem for yourself and the Committee, I have the
honor to be, etc., B. Franklin.

1779] Benjamin Franklin 149

DCCCXXXIV

TO AUSTIN

Passy, 20 October, 1779.

Sir: — I received your several favors of June loth,
July 12th and 27th. It gave me pleasure to hear of
your safe arrival in your native country, and I am
obliged to you for the intelligence your letters con-
tain, which I hope you will continue, and for the
newspapers. This campaign in Europe has not been
so active as was expected, owing to contrary winds
and other accidents, which a long time prevented the
junction of the French and Spanish fleets, and after-
ward the meeting with that of the English. But
something may yet be done before winter. The
American flag has, however, disturbed the British
coasts, interrupted their home trade a good deal,
and alarmed them with apprehensions of descents
in different places. Our little squadron, under Com-
modore Jones, has also lately taken two of their men-
of-war and brought them into Holland with near four
hundred prisoners, which will be a means, I hope, of
delivering the rest of our countrymen who are con-
fined in English prisons. Here is nothing worth your
acceptance that can be proposed to you. I wish you
success in any business you may undertake, being
with much regard, sir, etc.

B. Franklin.

My grandson presents his respects.

150 The Works of [1779

DCCCXXXV

TO MR. STADEL

Passy, 20 October, 1779.

Sir: — I received the letter you did me the honor
of writing to me, inclosing a project for raising a
regiment for the service of the United States, of
which you desire my sentiment. The Congress, I
believe, have never had any intention of raising
troops in Europe and transporting them to America ;
the expense would be too great for them, and the
difficulty extreme, as the English command the seas,
and would often intercept their transports. And
having myself no orders relative to such a project, I
cannot give the least assurance that it would be ac-
cepted. We are, nevertheless, obliged to the officer
for his friendship in making the proposition, and I
request that my thanks, in behalf of my country,
may be presented to him.

I have the honor to be, sir, etc.,

B. Franklin.

DCCCXXXVI

TO THE COMMERCIAL COMMITTEE OF CONGRESS, PHILA.

Passy, 21 October, 1779.

Gentlemen : — I received the honor of yours dated
the 2ist of July, containing an extract from Mr. Pol-
lock's letter * to you, in which he mentions his drafts

^ Oliver Pollock was the spirited American merchant in New Orleans
who rendered material service, in the early days, to the new-bom
nation.

1779] Benjamin Franklin 151

on Mr. Delap for 10,897 dollars, and his expectation
that in case of any difficulty I will see those bills paid.
I should certainly do every thing in my power to sup-
port the credit of the States, and every person acting
under their authority ; but I have been so exhausted
by great and unexpected drafts and expenses that I
am glad those bills have never been proposed to me,
as I could not have taken upon myself to pay them.
And I beg that you would not in future have any
dependence of that kind upon me without knowing
beforehand from me that I shall be able to pay what
is desired. I hope you will excuse my giving this
caution, which is forced from me by the distress and
anxiety such occasional and unforeseen demands
have occasioned me.

I have the honor to be, gentlemen, etc.,

B. Franklin.

DCCCXXXVII

TO A FRIEND IN AMERICA

Passy, 25 October, 1779.

I received your kind letter of February 14th,

the contents of which gave me a kind of melancholy
satisfaction. The greater ease you will now enjoy
makes some compensation in my mind for the un-
comfortable circumstance that brought it about. I
hope you will have no more affliction of that kind,
and that, after so long and stormy a day, your even-
ing may be serene and pleasant.

The account you have had of the vogue I am in

152 The Works of [1779

here has some truth in it. Perhaps few strangers in
France have had the good fortune to be so universally
popular; but the story you allude to, mentioning
" mechanic rust, ' ' is totally without foundation. But
one is not to expect being always in fashion, I hope,
however, to preserve, while I stay, the regard you
mention of the French ladies; for their society and
conversation, when I have time to enjoy them, are
extremely agreeable.

The enemy have been very near you indeed. When
only at a distance of a mile, you must have been
much alarmed. We have given them a little taste of
this disturbance upon their own coasts this summer;
and, though we have burnt none of their towns,
we have occasioned a good deal of terror and bustle
in many of them, as they imagined our Commo-
dore Jones had four thousand troops with him for
descents.

I am glad to learn that my dear sister continued in
good health and good spirits, and that she had learnt
not to be afraid of her friend, fresh air. With the
tenderest affection, etc.,

B. Franklin.

DCCCXXXVIII

TO SAMUEL COOPER

Passy, 27 October, 1779.

Dear Sir: — It is a long time since I have had the
pleasure of hearing from you. The intelligence you
were used to favor me with was often useful to our

1779] Benjamin Franklin 153

affairs. I hope I have not lost your friendship, to-
gether with your correspondence. Our excellent
Mr. Winthrop, I see, is gone. He was one of those
old friends, for the sake of whose society I wished to
return and spend the small remnant of my days in
New England. A few more such deaths will make
me a stranger in my own country. The loss of
friends is the tax a man pays for living long himself.
I find it a heavy one.

You will see by the newspapers that we have given
some disturbance to the British coasts this year. One
little privateer out of Dunkirk, the Black Prince, with
a Congress commission, and a few Americans mixed
with the Irish and English smugglers, went round
their islands and took thirty-seven prizes in less than
three months. The little squadron of Commodore
Jones, under the same commission and colors, has
alarmed those coasts exceedingly, occasioned a good
deal of internal expense, done great damage to their
trade, and taken two frigates, with four hundred
prisoners. He is now with his principal prizes in
Holland, where he is pretty well received, but must
quit that neutral country as soon as his damages are
repaired. The English watch with a superior force
his coming out, but we hope he will manage so as to
escape their vigilance. Few actions at sea have
demonstrated such steady, cool, determined bravery
as that of Jones in taking the Serapis.

There has been much rumor this summer through-
out Europe of an approaching peace, through the
mediation of Russia and Holland; but it is under-
stood to arise from the invention of stockjobbers

154 The Works of [1779

and others interested in propogating such opinions.
England seems not to be yet sufficiently humbled
to acknowledge the independence of the American
States, or to treat with them on that footing, and our
friends will not make a peace on any other. So we
shall probably see another campaign.

By the invoices I have seen and heard of, sent
hither with Congress interest bills of exchange to
purchase the goods, it should seem that there is not
so great a want of necessaries as of superfluities
among our people. It is difficult to conceive that
your distresses can be great when one sees that
much the greatest part of that money is lavished in
modes, and gewgaws, and tea! Is it impossible for
us to become wiser, when by simple economy, and
avoiding unnecessary expenses, we might more than
defray the charge of war? We export solid pro-
vision of all kinds, which is necessary for the suste-
nance of man, and we import fashions, luxuries, and
trifles. Such trade may enrich the traders, but
never the country.

The good-will of all Europe to our cause as being
the cause of liberty, which is the cause of mankind,
still continues, as does the universal wish to see the
English pride humiliated and their power curtailed.
Those circumstances are encouraging, and give hopes
of a happy issue. Which may God grant, and that
you, my friend, may live long a blessing to your
coimtry. I am, etc., B. Franklin.

1779] Benjamin Franklin 155

DCCCXXXIX

TO MR. HOLKER

Passy, 28 October, 1779.

Dear Sir: — Inclosed I send you a packet I have
just received from Morlaix, containing some of the
papers you requested me to recover, and a receipt
for the rest. You will see what M. Diot says about
the trunks of clothes. It will be best, I imagine,
for the person who desires to have them, if he knows
which they are, to describe them to M. Diot or some
other person, and order them to be bid for at the sale.
I received a quantity of apple jelly, but no letter. If
it was for me, one thousand thanks to good Madame
Holker. I am ever, my dear friend, etc.,

B. Franklin.

DCCCXL

TO MESSRS. FIZEAUX AND GRAND

Passy, 29 October, 1779.

Gentlemen: — I have advice from England that
eight boxes of printing characters are sent from Lon-
don to your care for me. If they are arrived, I re-
quest you would ship them to Rouen, addressed to
M. Holker there. I suppose you have Dutch vessels
frequently going there. Their value is about ;i^ioo
sterling, which I desire you to get insured. What-
ever charges you are at I shall repay, with thanks.
I have the honor to be, etc.,

B. Franklin.

156 The Works of [1779

DCCCXLI

TO BENJAMIN VAUGHAN

Passy, 9 November, 1779.

Dear Sir: — I have received several kind letters
from you, which I have not regularly answered.
They gave me, however, great pleasure, as they ac-
quainted me with your welfare, and that of your
family and other friends; and I hope you will con-
tinue writing to me as often as you can do it
conveniently.

I thank you much for the great care and pains you
have taken in regulating and correcting the edition of
those papers. Your friendship for me appears in
almost every page, and if the preservation of any of
them should prove of use to the public, it is to you
that the public will owe the obligation. In looking
them over, I have noted some faults of impression
that hurt the sense, and some other little matters,
which you will find all in a sheet under the title of
"Errata." You can best judge whether it may be
worth while to add any of them to the errata already
printed, or whether it may not be as well to reserve
the whole for correction in another edition, if such
should ever be. Inclosed I send a more perfect copy
of the "Chapter."^

If I should ever recover the pieces that were in the
hands of my son, and those I left among my papers
in America, I think there may be enough to make

^Alluding to the celebrated "Parable against Persecution." Mr.
Vaughan had reprinted it from the copy first published by Lord Kames,
•which was imperfect.

1779] Benjamin Franklin 157

three more such volumes, of which a great part would
be more interesting.

As to the time of publishing, of which you ask my
opinion, I am not furnished with any reasons, or
ideas of reasons, on which to form any opinion.
Naturally I should suppose the bookseller to be from
experience the best judge, and I should be for leaving
it to him.

I did not write the pamphlet you mention. I
know nothing of it. I suppose it is the same, con-
cerning which Dr. Priestley formerly asked me the
same question. That for which he took it was en-
titled, "A Dissertation on Liberty and Necessity,
Pleasure and Pain," with these lines in the title-
page:

" Whatever is, is right. But purbUnd man
Sees but a part o' the chain, the nearest Hnks;
His eyes not carrying to that equal beam,
That poises all above." Dryden.

London. Printed MDCCXXV.

I return the manuscripts you were so obliging as
to send me ; I am concerned at your having no other
copies ; I hope these will get safe to your hands. I
do not remember the Duke de Chaulnes showing me
the letter you mention. I have received Dr. Craw-
ford's book, but not your abstract, which I wait for
as you desire.

I send you also M. Dupont's Table Economique,
which I think an excellent thing, as it contains in a
clear method all the principles of that new sect, called
here les Economistes.

158 The Works of [1779

Poor Henly 's dying in that manner is inconceivable
to me. Is any reason given to account for it, besides
insanity?

Remember me affectionately to all your good
family, and believe me, with great esteem, my dear
friend, yours, etc., B. Franklin.

DCCCXLII

TO JOHN BAPTIST BECCARIA

Passy, 19 November, 1779.

Dear Sir: — Having some time since heard of
your illness with great concern, it gave me infinite
pleasure to learn this day from M. Chantel, who did
me the honor of a visit, that you were so far recov-
ered as to be able to make little excursions on horse-
back, I pray God that your convalescence may be
quick and perfect, and your health be again firmly
established. Science would lose too much in losing
one so zealous and active in its cause, and so capa-
ble of accelerating its progress and augmenting its
dominions.

I find myself here immersed in affairs which ab-
sorb my attention, and prevent my pursuing those
studies in which I always found the highest satisfac-
tion ; and I am now grown so old as hardly to hope
for a return of that leisure and tranquillity so neces-
sary for philosophical disquisitions. I have, how-
ever, not long since thrown a few thoughts on paper
relative to the Aurora Borealis, which I would send

1779] Benjamin Franklin 159

you, but that I suppose you may have seen them
in the Journal of the Abbe Rozier. If not, I will
make out a copy, and send it to you, perhaps with
some corrections.

Every thing of your writing is always very wel-
come to me. If, therefore, you have lately published
any new experiments or observations in physics, I
shall be happy to see them, when you have an oppor-
ttmity of sending them to me. With the highest
esteem, respect, and affection, I am, etc.,

B. Franklin.

DCCCXLIII

TO CAPTAIN CONYNGHAM

Passy, 22 November, 1779.

Sir: — It gave me great pleasure to hear of your
escape out of prison, which I first learnt from six of
the men who broke out with you and came to France
in a boat. I was then anxious lest you shotild be re-
taken, and I am very glad indeed to hear of your safe
arrival at Amsterdam. I think it will be best for
you to stay awhile at Dunkirk, till we see what
becomes of the little squadron from Holland, for
which it is said the English are lying in wait with
a superior force. The Congress resented exceeding-
ly the inhuman treatment you met with, and it or-
dered three English officers to be confined in the
same manner, to abide your fate.

There are some Frenchmen returned to Dunkirk
who were put by you into one of your first prizes.

i6o The Works of [1779

which was afterwards carried into England. I wish
you would adjust their claims of wages, prize-money,
etc., and put them in a way of getting what may be
due to them.

I write to M. Coffyn by this post to supply you
with necessaries. You will be as frugal as possible,
money being scarce with me and the calls upon me
abundant.

With great esteem, I have, etc.,

B. Franklin.

DCCCXLIV

TO R. BERNSTORFF, MINISTER OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS IN

DENMARK

Passy, 22 December, 1779.

Sir: — I have received a letter from M. de Che-
zaulx, consul of France at Bergen in Norway, ac-
quainting me that two ships, viz., the Betsey and the
Union, prizes taken from the English on their coasts
by Captain Landais, commander of the Alliance
frigate, appertaining to the United States of North
America, which prizes having met with bad weather
at sea, that had damaged their rigging and had oc-
casioned leaks, and being weakly manned had taken
shelter in the supposed neutral port of Bergen, in
order to repair their damages, procure an additional
number of sailors and the necessary refreshments;
that they were in the said port enjoying, as they con-
ceived, the common rights of hospitality, established
and practised by civilized nations, under the care of
the above said consul, when, on the 28th of October

1779] Benjamin Franklin i6i

last, the said ships, with their cargoes and papers,
were suddenly seized by officers of his Majesty, the
King of Denmark, to whom the said port belongs;
the American officers and seamen turned out of their
possession, and the whole delivered to the English
consul.

M. de Chezaulx has also sent me the following as
a translation of his Majesty's order, by which the
above proceedings are said to be authorized, viz.:
" The English minister having insisted on the resti-
tution of two vessels which had been taken by the
American privateer called the Alliance, commanded
by Captain Landais, and which were brought into
Bergen, viz., the Betsey of Liverpool, and the Union
of London, his Majesty has granted this demand on
this account, because he has not as yet acknowledged
the independence of the colonies associated against
England, and because that these vessels for this rea-
son cannot be considered as good and lawful prizes.
Therefore, the said two ships shall be immediately
liberated, and allowed to depart with their cargoes."
By a subsequent letter from the same consul, I am in-
formed that a third prize belonging to the United
States, viz., the Charming Polly, which arrived at
Bergen after the others, has also been seized and de-
livered up in the same manner, and that all the peo-
ple of the three vessels, after being thus stripped of
their property (for every one had an interest in the
prizes), were turned on shore to shift for themselves,
without money, in a strange place, no provision being
made for their subsistence, or for sending them back
to their country.

VOL. VII. — II.

1 62 The Works of [1779

Permit me, sir, to observe on this occasion that the
United States of America have no war but with the
EngHsh; they have never done any injury to other
nations, particularly none to the Danish nation; on
the contrary, they are in some degree its benefactors,
as they have opened a trade of which the English
made a monopoly, and of which the Danes may now
have their share, and, by dividing the British empire,
have made it less dangerous to its neighbors. They
conceived that every nation whom they had not of-
fended was by the rights of humanity their friend;
they confided in the hospitality of Denmark, and
thought themselves and their property safe when
under the roof of his Danish Majesty. But they find
themselves stripped of that property, and the same
given up to their enemies, on this principle only, that
no acknowledgment had yet been formally made by
Denmark of the independence of the United States ;
which is to say, that there is no obligation of justice
towards any nation with whom a treaty promising
the same has not been previously made. This was
indeed the doctrine of ancient barbarians, a doctrine
long since exploded, and which it would not be for
the honor of the present age to revive, and it is hoped
that Denmark will not, by supporting and persisting
in this decision, obtained of his Majesty apparently
by surprise, be the first modem nation that shall at-
tempt to revive it.^

» "The ancients," says Vattel, " did not conceive themselves boiind
tinder any obligations towards a people with whom they were not
connected by a treaty of friendship. At length the voice of nature
was heard by civilized nations; they acknowledged all mankind as
brothers." An injustice of the same kind, done a century or two

17791 Benjamin Franklin 163

The United States, oppressed by and at war with
one of the most powerful nations of Europe, may
well be supposed incapable in their present infant
state of exacting justice from other nations not dis-
posed to grant it ; but it is in human nature that
injuries as well as benefits received in times of weak-
ness and distress, national as well as personal, make
deep and lasting impressions; and those ministers
are wise, who look into futurity and quench the first
sparks of misunderstanding between two nations,
which, neglected, may in time grow into a flame, all
the consequences whereof no human prudence can
foresee, which may produce much mischief to both,
and cannot possibly produce any good to either. I
beg leave, through your Excellency, to submit these
considerations to the wisdom and justice of his Dan-
ish Majesty, whom I infinitely respect, and who, I
hope, will reconsider and repeal the orders above
recited; and that, if the prizes, which I hereby re-
claim in behalf of the United States of America, are
not actually gone to England, they may be stopped
and re-delivered to M. de Chezaulx, the consul of
France at Bergen, in whose care they before were,
with liberty to depart for America when the season
shall permit. But, if they should be already gone
to England, I must then claim from his Majesty's
equity the value of the said prizes, which is esti-

since by some English in the East Indies, Grotius tells us, "was not
without its partisans, who maintained that by the ancient laws of
England no one was liable to punishment in that kingdom for out-
rages committed against foreigners, when no treaty of alliance had
been contracted with them." But this principle he condemns in the
strongest terms. — History of the Troubles in the Netherlands, Book xvi.

104 The Works of [1779

mated at fifty thousand pounds sterHng, but which
may be regulated by the best information that can
by any means be obtained. With the greatest re-
spect, I am, sir, etc., B. Franklin.

DCCCXLV

FROM CAPTAIN CONYNGHAM

Texel Road, 22 December, 1779.

Honorable Sir: — I wrote you last from Amster-
dam. At that time informed of my going to Dun-
kirk, but meeting with Commodore Jones prevented
me, and supposing the Alliance will be ordered home
as soon as she may get to France. The hurry I was
obliged to leave England could not get my account
with me. Mr. Digges was to send it to Dunkirk as
soon as he could get it from Plymouth. I hope ere
this you have a settlement from the Geoine of the
prizes left in care of Mr. Lagoanese & Co. Should
be glad to know the result in that quarter. The
two West Indiamen that were given up by the court
of France, they paying the captors. I must think
we have an undoubted right to be paid for the packet

and brig of The brig had a valuable cargo.

In reality they should [pay] for the confinement we
were under. I shall acquaint you with the many
favors I received since I was a captive. First, in
New York, that Sir George Collier, ordered irons on
my legs, with a sentry on board the ship. Mr. Col-
lier, going on an expedition, ordered me to jail, there

1779] Benjamin Franklin 165

put me in the condemned room. The first night a
cold plank my bed, a stone for a pillow. Second
night allowed a something to lie on. In this horrid
room was kept for eight days without the least mor-
sel of bread, or any thing but water, from the keeper
of the prison. After many notes, etc., sent to the
jailer, at last he made his appearance. After ex-
postulating on the impropriety of such treatment,
he told me he had such orders, but would take it upon
himself to release me on my giving him my strongest
assurances I would not make my escape. I readily
consented, it not being in the power of man to get
out of the condemned room. By all accounts this
[is] the first instance of this jailer's humanity. A
creature after Clinton's ov/n heart. In the prison
of New York I continued till that tyrant Collier
returned. A stranger to his mode of war would be
certain he was from Gambia, or that quarter. Then
I was told to get ready to go on board the prison-
ship, was moved to a separate apartment in the
prison, then a pair of criminal irons put on my legs —
weight, fifty pounds ; at the door put into the hang-
man's cart, — all in form as if bound to the gallows.
I was then put into a boat and took alongside of
the Raisonable, [and] then showed a paper, signed
Commd. Jones, ordering me to be sent to England
in the packet. In those irons I was brought to Pen-
dennis Castle. Then, not content, they manacled
my hands with a new-fashioned pair of ruffles, fitted
very tight. In this condition I was kept there fif-
teen or sixteen days, then brought to Plymouth and
lodged in the black-hole for eight days, before they

i66 The Works of [1779

would do me the honor of committing me on sus-
picion of high treason on his Majesty's seas; then
put into Mill prison, where we committed treason
through his earth and made our escape. This, sir, is
an account of their favors, insults excepted. I must
acquaint your Excellency that the poor rmfortunate
prisoners in Plymouth are in a most distressed
situation. The donation, when I left that, had been
at 6d. per week, I am afraid, could they not be ex-
changed soon, will be obliged to enter in their service.
They cannot live on the government allowance. I
hope to have the favor of a letter from you. I am,
sir, your most obedient servant,

G. CONYNGHAM.

DCCCXLVI

TO JOSHUA JOHNSON ^

Passy, 29 December, 1779.

Sir: — I am much obliged by your kind attention
in sending me from time to time the American news-
papers that have come to your hands. Please to ac-
cept my thankful acknowledgments.

I have the pleasure now to acquaint you that
though my application, at your request, for arms or
a loan of money for your province in particular was
not attended with success, the opinion here being (as
I think I formerly wrote you), that all such appli-
cations should regularly come to the Congress; yet,

' A merchant in Nantes. His daughter was afterwards Mrs. J. Q.
Adams.

1779] Benjamin Franklin 167

an aid being now lately granted to that body for the
whole, there is no doubt but Maryland will obtain
its share of what shall arrive in America.

If I have not corresponded with you so punctually
as you might expect, and as I could have wished to
do, I pray you to excuse me. I have had too much
business, with too little help. The constant expecta-
tion of a secretary, who had long been voted, but did
not arrive, prevented my engaging such assistance as
I wanted; and I have not been able by increased
application to supply the deficiency.

I do not understand that by the treaty of alliance
between France and America, an American taking a
house and settling in France to carry on business is
exempted from the duties and services that would
have been required of a native of France inhabiting
the same house. The droit d'aubaine is indeed
abolished in our favor, but in other respects I should
suppose that Americans settled here, as well as
Frenchmen settled in America, must, while they live
as inhabitants, be subject to the laws of the respective
countries of which they at the same time claim and
enjoy the protection. I am sorry, however, that you
find this so inconvenient as to induce you to quit the
kingdom. Particular circumstances may have oc-
casioned the quartering of soldiers on the inhabitants
last year, which in time of peace, may rarely happen.

i68 The Works of [1780

DCCCXLVII

TO W. STRAHAN, ESQ.

Passy, 24 January, 1780.

Sir: — I received yours of Dec. 31st. By this time
you are probably satisfied that the subject of it was a
mistake, and therefore requires no answer. I con-
gratulate you on the marriage of your daughter,
which I lately heard of. My ancient regard for her
is undiminished, and my best wishes attend her.
Please to present to Mrs. Strahan the respects of
Yoiu" long affectionate, humble servant,

B. Franklin.

DCCCXLVIII

TO CHARLES W. F. DUMAS

Passy, 27 January, 1780.

Dear Sir: — I received yours of the loth instant.
I shall be glad to learn how the taking of the Dutch
ships has been accommodated. We have yet no
news of the Alliance, but suppose she is cruising.
We are more in pain for the Confederacy, which sailed
the 28th of October from the Capes of Delaware.
There is some hope that she went to Charleston to
take in Mr. Laurens; for sorne passengers, arrived in
France, who left Philadelphia several weeks after
her sailing, say that it was a general opinion she
would call there before she departed for Europe,
If this was not the case, we fear she must be lost,
and the loss will be a very severe one.

lySo] Benjamin Franklin 169

I send you enclosed a translation of a letter that I
think I sent you the original of before. Perhaps it
may serve our Ley den friend.

I am sorry you have any difference with the am-
bassador, and wish you to accommodate it as soon as
possible. Depend upon it that no one ever knew
from me that you had spoken or written against any
person. There is one concerning whom I think you
sometimes receive erroneous information. In one
particular I know you were misinformed — that of his
selling us arms at an enormous profit; the truth is
we never bought any of him. I am, etc.,

B. Franklin.

DCCCXLIX

TO DAVID HARTLEY

Passy, 2 February, 1780.

Dear Friend: — It is some time since I procured
the discharge of your Captain Stephenson. He did
not call here in his way home. I hope he arrived
safely, and had a happy meeting with his friends and
family.

I have long postponed answering your letter of the
29th of June. A principal point in it, on which you
seemed to desire my opinion, was the conduct you
thought America ought to hold in case her allies
should, from motives of ambition or resentment of
former injuries, desire her to continue the war be-
yond what should be reasonable and consistent with
her particular interests. As often as I took up your

I70 The Works of [1780

letter in order to answer it, this suggestion dis-
pleased me, and I laid it down again. I saw no
occasion for discussing such a question at present,
nor any good end it could serve to discuss before the
case should happen; and I saw inconveniences in
discussing it. I wish, therefore, you had not men-
tioned it. For the rest, I am as much for peace as
ever I was, and as heartily desirous of seeing the
war ended as I was to prevent its beginning, of
which your ministers know I gave a strong proof
before I left England, when, in order to an accom-
modation, I offered at my own risk, without orders
for so doing, and without knowing whether I should
be owned in doing it, to pay the whole damage of
destroying the tea at Boston, provided the acts
made against that province were repealed. This
offer was refused. I still think it would have been
wise to have accepted it. If the Congress have there-
fore entrusted to others rather than to me, the nego-
tiations for peace, when such shall be set on foot, as
has been reported, it is perhaps because they may
have heard of a very singular opinion of mine, that
there hardly ever existed such a thing as a bad peace
or a good war, and that I might therefore easily be
induced to make improper concessions. But at the
same time they and you may be assured that I should
think the destruction of our whole country, and the
extirpation of our whole people, preferable to the
infamy of abandoning our allies.

As neither you nor I are at present authorized to
treat of peace, it seems to little purpose to make or
consider propositions relating to it. I have had so

1780] Benjamin Franklin 171

many such put into my hands, that I am tired of
them. I will, however, give your proposal of a ten
years' truce this answer, that, though I think a solid
peace made at once a much better thing, yet, if the
truce is practicable and the peace not, I should be
for agreeing to it. At least I see at present no suffi-
cient reasons for refusing it, provided our allies ap-
prove of it. But this is merely a private opinion of
mine, which perhaps may be changed by reasons
that at present do not offer themselves. This, how-
ever, I am clear in, that withdrawing your troops
will be best for you, if you wish a cordial reconcilia-
tion, and that the truce should produce a peace. To
show that it was not done by compulsion, being
required as a condition of the truce, they might
be withdrawn beforehand, for various good reasons.
But all this is idle chat, as I am persuaded, that there
is no disposition for peace on your side, and that this
war will yet last many years. I know nothing, and
believe nothing, of any terms offered to Sir Henry
Clinton.

The prisoners taken in the Serapis and Countess
of Scarborough being all treated for in Holland, and
exchanged there, I hope Mr. Brown's son is now safe
at home with his father. It grieved me, that the ex-
change there, which you may remember I imme-
diately proposed, was so long delayed. Much human
misery might have been prevented by a prompt com-
pliance; and so might a great deal, by the execution
of parole promises taken at sea; but, since I see no
regard is paid to them in England, I must give orders
to our armed ships that cruise in Europe to secure

172 The Works of [1780

their prisoners as well as they can, and lodge them
in French or Spanish prisons. I have written some-
thing on this affair to Mr. Hodgson,' and sent to him
the second passport for a cartel to Morlaix, suppos-
ing you to be out of town. The number of prisoners
we now have in France is not easily ascertained. I
suppose it exceeds one hundred; yet you may be
assured, that the number which may be brought over
by the two cartels shall be fully exchanged, by adding
to those taken by us, as many as will make up the
complement out of those taken by the French, with
whom we have an account since the exchange in Hol-
land of those we carried in there. I wish therefore
you would, as was proposed, clear your prisons of
the Americans, who have been so long confined there.
The cartels, that may arrive at Morlaix, will not be
detained.

You may have heard, that accounts upon oath
have been taken in America, by order of Congress, of
the British barbarities committed there. It is ex-
pected of me to make a school-book of them, and to
have thirty-five prints designed here by good artists,
and engraved, each expressing one or more of the
different horrid facts, to be inserted in the book, in
order to impress the minds of children and posterity
with a deep sense of your bloody and insatiable
malice and wickedness. Every kindness I hear of,
done by an Englishman to an American prisoner,
makes me resolve not to proceed in the work,
hoping a reconciliation may yet take place. But

^ William Hodgson was an agent in London appointed to look after
American prisoners in England, and superintend their exchange.

1780] Benjamin Franklin 173

every fresh instance of your devilism weakens that
resolution, and makes me abominate the thought
of a reunion with such a people. You, my friend,
have often persuaded me, and I believe it, that the
war was not theirs, nor approved by them. But
their suffering it so long to continue, and the wretched
rulers to remain who carry it on, makes me think
you have too good an opinion of them. Adieu, my
dear friend, etc., B. Franklin.

DCCCL

TO RICHARD PRICE

Passy, 6 February, 1780.

Dear Sir:— I received but very lately, your kind
favor of October 14th, by Dr. Ingenhousz, who
brought it, having stayed long in Holland. I sent
that enclosed, directly to Mr. Lee. It gave me great
pleasure to understand that you continue well. Take
care of yourself; your life is a valuable one. Your
writings, after all the abuse you and they have met
with, begin to make serious impressions on those who
at first rejected the counsels you gave ; and they will
acquire new weight every day, and be in high esteem
when the cavils against them are dead and forgotten.

Please to present my affectionate respects to that
honest, sensible, and intelligent society,^ who did me
so long the honor of admitting me to share in their in-
structive conversations. I never think of the hours I
so happily spent in that company, without regretting

^ Supposed to allude to a club at the London CofiEee-house.

174 The Works of [1780

that they are never to be repeated; for I see no
prospect of an end to this unhappy war in my time.
Dr. Priestley, you tell me, continues his experiments
with success. We make daily great improvements in
natural — there is one I wish to see in moral — philo-
sophy : the discovery of a plan that woiild induce and
oblige nations to settle their disputes without first
cutting one another's throats. When will human
reason be sufficiently improved to see the advantage
of this? When will men be convinced that even
successful wars at length become misfortunes to those
who unjustly commenced them, and who triumphed
blindly in their success, not seeing all its conse-
quences? Your great comfort and mine in this war
is, that we honestly and faithfully did every thing in
our power to prevent it. Adieu; and believe me
ever, my dear friend, yours, etc.,

B. Franklin.

DCCCLI

TO JOSEPH PRIESTLEY

Passy, 8 February, 1780.

Dear Sir: — Your kind letter of September 27th
came to hand but very lately, the bearer having
stayed long in Holland. I always rejoice to hear of
your being still employed in experimental researches
into nature, and of the success you meet with. The
rapid progress true science now makes, occasions my
regretting sometimes that I was bom so soon. It
is impossible to imagine the height to which may be

lySo] Benjamin Franklin 175

carried, in a thousand years, the power of man over
matter. We may perhaps learn to deprive large
masses of their gravity, and give them absolute lev-
ity, for the sake of easy transport. Agriculture may
diminish its labor and double its produce ; all diseases
may by sure means be prevented or cured, not ex-
cepting even that of old age, and our lives lengthened
at pleasure even beyond the antediluvian standard.
O that moral science were in as fair a way of im-
provement, that men would cease to be wolves to one
another, and that human beings would at length
learn what they now improperly call humanity!

I am glad my little paper on the Aurora Borealis
pleased. If it should occasion further inquiry, and
so produce a better hypothesis, it will not be wholly
useless. I am ever, with the greatest and most sin-
cere esteem, dear sir, etc., B. Franklin.

Enclosed in the foregoing Letter; being an Answer to
a separate Paper received from Dr. Priestley

I have considered the situation of that person very
attentively. I think that, with a little help from the
Moral Algebra,'' he might form a better judgment
than any other person can form for him. But, since
my opinion seems to be desired, I give it for con-
tinuing to the end of the term, under all the present
disagreeable circumstances. The connection will
then die a natural death. No reason will be ex-
pected to be given for the separation, and, of course,

^ See letter to Dr. Priestley, dated September 19, 1772.

176 The Works of [1780

no offence taken at reasons given; the friendship
may still subsist, and in some other way be useful.
The time diminishes daily, and is usefully employed.
All human situations have their inconveniences ; we
feel those that we find in the present, and we neither
feel nor see those that exist in another. Hence we
make frequent and troublesome changes without
amendment, and often for the worse.

In my youth I was passenger in a little sloop de-
scending the river Delaware. There being no wind,
we were obliged, when the ebb was spent, to cast
anchor and wait for the next. The heat of the sim
on the vessel was excessive, the company strangers
to me and not very agreeable. Near the river-side
I saw what I took to be a pleasant green meadow, in
the middle of which was a large shady tree, where, it
struck my fancy, I could sit and read (having a book
in my pocket) and pass the time agreeably till the
tide turned. I therefore prevailed with the captain
to put me ashore. Being landed, I found the greatest
part of my meadow was really a marsh, in crossing
which, to come to my tree, I was up to my knees in
mire; and I had not placed myself under its shade
five minutes before the mosquitoes, in swarms, found
me out, attacked my legs, hands, and face, and made
my reading and my rest impossible, so that I re-
turned to the beach and called for the boat to come
and take me on board again, where I was obliged
to bear the heat I had strove to quit, and also
the laugh of the company. Similar cases in the
affairs of life have since frequently fallen under my
observation.

i78o] Benjamin Franklin i77

I have had thoughts of a college for him in Amer-
ica. I know no one who might be more useful to the
public in the instruction of youth. But there are
possible unpleasantnesses in that situation; it can-
not be obtained but by a too hazardous voyage at
this time for a family ; and the time for experiments
would be all otherwise engaged.^

DCCCLII

TO M. DE SARTINE

Passy, 13 February, 1780.

Sir: — Enclosed is the order your Excellency re-
quired of me in the letter you yesterday did me the
honor of writing to me, relating to the English pris-
oners brought in to L 'Orient by the Black Prince
and other American privateers.

I beg leave to mention to your Excellency that
there are still remaining in the English prisons 410
Americans, some of whom have languished there
near three years. They had great hopes of obtain-
ing their liberty in exchange for those taken by the
squadron under Commodore Jones, a great part of
which were taken by the Alliance and delivered to
M. Le Due de la Vauguyon under a kind of promise

I The advice contained in this paper related to Dr. Priestley him-
self, who had engaged to live with Lord Shelbume, as his librarian, at
a salary of about three htindred pounds per annum, for a certain num-
ber of 3^ears; but, before the term had expired, he became dissatisfied
with his situation and requested counsel from Dr. Franklin on the sub-
ject.—W. T. F.

VOL. VIII. — 12.

178 The Works of [1780

made by him to M. Jones, that they should be ex-
changed for Americans. I have not heard that any
thing has been done in that respect, and I fear they
will be in despair if not speedily released. I there-
fore entreat yoiir Excellency to take that matter
into consideration, and favor me with as many Eng-
lish prisoners as may serve to exchange those poor
people, when they shall be brought over in the car-
tels expected at Morlaix.

The Black Prince, the Black Princess, and the
Fearnot, American privateers, are, I suppose, now on
a new cruise, and will, I hope, bring in more English
prisoners; I hope the same also from the Alliance
now at Corunna. If we once had our prisoners from
England, several other privateers would immediately
be manned with them, and probably give as much
trouble to the English as those above mentioned.

There were thirty-eight English and Irishmen said
to be concerned in the conspiracy on board the Alli-
ance when the Marquis de Lafayette came over.
They were left in prison at Brest. I do not see any
probability of these being ever brought to a trial, and
perhaps the best thing that can be done with them is
to exchange them for honester men. If your Excel-
lency approves of it, I will give the same orders re-
lating to them when you send any prisoners from
that port.

With greatest respect, I am your Excellency's, etc.,

1780] Benjamin Franklin 179

DCCCLIII

TO JOHN PAUL JONES

Passy, 19 February, 1780.

Dear Sir: — I received yours from Carone of the
1 6th past, and from L 'Orient of the 13th inst. I
rejoice that you are so safely arrived in France,
malgre all the pains to intercept you.

As to the refitting of your ship at the expense of
this court, I must acquaint you that there is not the
least probability of obtaining it, and therefore I can-
not ask it. I hear too much already of the extra-
ordinary expense you made in Holland, to think of
proposing an addition to it, especially as you seem to
impute the damage she has sustained more to Cap-
tain Landais' negligence than to accidents of the
cruise. The whole expense will therefore fall upon
me, and I am ill provided to bear it, having so many
imexpected calls upon me from all quarters. I
therefore beg you will have mercy on me, and put
me to as little charge as possible, and take nothing
that you can possibly do without.

As to sheathing with copper, it is totally out of the
question. I am not authorized to do it, if I had
money ; and I have not money, if I had orders. The
purchase of the Serapis is in the same predicament.
I believe the sending of cordage and canvas from
Amsterdam has already been forbidden; if not, I
shall forbid it. I approve of your applying to
Messrs. Gourdale & Moylan for what repairs you
want, having an exceedingly good opinion of those
gentlemen; but, let me repeat, for God's sake be

i8o The Works of [1780

sparing, unless you mean to make me a bankrupt,
or have your drafts dishonored for want of money
in my hands to pay them.

We are Hkely to obtain fifteen thousand stands of
good arms from the government. They are much
wanted in America. M. de Lafayette has just now
proposed that you should take them as ballast. You
know best if this is practicable.

Mr. Ross requests to be permitted to take his pas-
sage with you. As he has been a servant of the
States in making their purchases in Europe, it seems
to me that it would be wrong to refuse him, if you can
accommodate him. There is also a particular friend
of mine, Mr. Samuel Wharton of Philadelphia, who
desires to go with you. These gentlemen will doubt-
less lay in their own stores, and pay as customary for
their accommodations, and I am persuaded you will
find them agreeable company. Mr. Lee and Mr.
Izard also propose to take their passages in your ship,
whom I hope you can likewise accommodate. Pray
write me immediately your sentiments on these par-
ticulars; and let me know, at the same time, when
you think you can be ready, that I may forward my
despatches.

I am glad to hear that your indisposition is wearing
off. I hope your health will soon be reestablished.
I am, etc.,

B. Franklin.

1780] Benjamin Franklin 181

DCCCLIV

TO COL. FLEURY

Passy, 26 February, 1780.

Sir: — I am sorry you were disappointed in meeting
me at Versailles. In all your billets except that of
yesterday you omitted mentioning where you lodged,
otherwise I could have acquainted you that I should
not be at court on the day you expected me.

I suppose you will acquaint the Congress or
General Washington with your reasons for desiring a
prolongation of your furlough. As you have not
communicated them to me, I know not what to say
in order to enforce them. I can therefore only forward
yotir request and pray that it may be favorably con-
sidered, which I shall do. I imagine, however, that
the Congress have so high an opinion of your merit
as an officer, and the importance of having you in
actual service, that the request will not be lightly
granted.

With great esteem, etc.,

B. Franklin.

DCCCLV

FROM THE MARQUIS DE LAFAYETTE

Paris, 29 February, 1780.

Dear Sir: — In consequence of the assent that
your Excellency was pleased to honor my request
with, I shall beg your obliging help positively to fix
my ideas on some affairs relating to our army, in

i82 The Works of [1780

which I had the happiness of acting as one of your
agents at the court of Versailles.

From the ministers of war and the minister of
foreign affairs I get the most positive assurance that
our fifteen thousand stands of arms, with the same
number of accoutrements, will be soon delivered for
the use of the American army, and safely conveyed.
The other demands I have made in that department
have not been as yet positively answered to, but I
shall get a return of such articles as may be obtained
from M. de Montbarrey; and that retiun I shall
have the honor of sending to your Excellency as soon
as it comes into my hands.

According to your request, I have made it a point
to carry with me about four thousand complete suits,
and have got from the minister of the navy such an
order as will direct the captain of the frigate ap-
pointed for my passage, not only to take on board
the clothing, that will be brought to Rochelle, but
even, if necessary for making room, to disembark a
part of his provisions.

In consequence of positive ministerial assurances,
I make no doubt but that you will have the safest
convoy for the remaining six thousand suits of
clothes, that are making at Nantes. I have heard
of a hundred and twenty bales of cloth for public
service, that are sent by you on board of the Al-
liance, but do not know exactly how much clothing
they will afford for the army. Notwithstanding
your despatches to Congress, which I hope I shall
be intrusted with, I confess it would be very agree-
able for me to know exactly the quantity and the

lySo] Benjamin Franklin 183

kind of the several articles that you are preparing
for us ; so that I may give to General Washington a
positive basis, which his Excellency can depend
upon.

I had this morning the honor of imparting to you
the ideas I proposed to Count de Vergennes, for
providing new clothing for the army, that might
arrive before the winter ; and, as to the conversation
on money affairs, in my private capacity I may be
much less moderate than the ministers of the United
States. I beg your pardon, my good friend, for
the trouble I am giving you, but your friendship
encourages me to do it; and I know such a note, as
I beg leave to require, will be extremely agreeable
when I arrive at headquarters.^ With the most
sincere attachment and perfect regard, I have the
honor to be, etc., Lafayette.

DCCCLVI

TO LOUIS XVI ^

M. Franklin attendoit I'arrivee de la fregatte La
Confederation, pour envoyer a Philadelphie des mu-
nitions de guerre, et I'habillement complet de quinze
mille soldats, qui en sont absolument depourvus.

1 For further details of the transactions referred to in this letter, see
the history of these transactions in Washington's Writings, Vol.
VII., pp. 477-506.

2 This letter is found in the Stevens collection, neither addressed,
dated, nor signed. It was probably put into French, to be handed
to the King, who did not read English. Why the Count de Vergennes
was passed over, in making such a communication, does not appear.
It may have been done with his approval.

1 84 The Works of [1780

Cette fregatte etoit destinee a porter M. Gerard
en France; elle a ete dematee de tous mats sur le
banc de Terre Neuve, et est en relache a la Marti-
nique; ou elle sera employee a des correspondances
entre la Martinique et I'Amerique Septentrionale ou
a convoy er en France les navires marchands.

M. Franklin ne peut suplier au deffaut de cette
fregatte, qu'en implorant au nom des Etats Unis de
I'Amerique Septentrionale, les bontes de sa Majeste
tres Chretienne, pour accorder incessament un vais-
seau de guerre, dans lequel il puisse faire charger
les munitions de guerre et les habillements dont les
troupes americaines ont le plus pressant bezoing.
II est d'autant plus essentiel que ce vaisseau soit
d'unne marche et d'unne force superieure que rien
ne pouroit remplacer la perte des dits aprovisione-
ments. II est a desirer que ce vaisseau soit pris
dans le port de Rochefort parceque les habillements
se font a Nantes.

Le dit vaisseau peut se rendre a FAmerique Sep-
tentrionale avec trois mois de vivres parcequ'il en
trouvera abondament a Philadelphie ou, de memoire
d'homme, on n'a jamais fait de si bonne recolte que
la demiere, ainsy que dans tout le continent. Au
deffaut d 'equipages frangais on poura y suplier par
des equipages Americains, qui attendent leur echange
en Angleterre contre les prisonniers que L'Escadre
Jones a fait sur les Anglais.

Le Vaisseau de guerre qui sera accorde sera a mesme
s'il est destine ensuitte pour les colonies frangaises,
de proteger les navires marchands qui sont en grand
nombre et qui porteront des vivres de toutte espece.

1780] Benjamin Franklin 185

M. Franklin suplie sa Majeste tres Chretienne de
luy accorder avec bonte unne prompte reponse sur la
demande attendu qu'il ne peut retarder les avis a
faire passer au Congr^s sur les secours qu'il est
charge d'envoyer.

DCCCLVII

TO M. DE LAFAYETTE

Passy, 2 March, 1780

Dear Sir: — I received with pleasure the letter you
honored me with of the 29th past, and am infinitely
obliged by the zeal and assiduity with which you
have forwarded our affairs at Versailles. The 15,000
arms and accoutrements are a great article.

I had written to Capt. Jones that, besides the 122
bales of cloth, we hoped for that quantity arms
which it was supposed he might take as ballast. I
think the clothing (4,000 suits) was also mentioned
to him by M. de Chaumont. In his last letter to me
he says he will take as much as possible, and hopes
he may be able to cram in the whole, if not, your
ship can take the rest. I wish much to know where
the arms are and when they can be rendered at
L 'Orient.

Mr. Williams, I hear, is indefatigable in preparing
the clothing, and hopes to have the whole 10,000
suits ready by the end of the month. I wish they
could go with you, but that being impossible, I hope
we shall get another ship of force to carry them.

i86 The Works of [1780

They are made precisely according to the directions
of the Committee,

If, on seeing the accounts, I find I can add a pro-
portion of clothes for officers, which you urge so ear-
nestly, I shall do it with pleasure. But from the
large and unexpected drafts often made upon me by
Congress, I am become timid. I must take care of
their credit and my own, and cannot take hazardous
steps, as protesting or not paying one of their bills
would be attended with great mischief on both sides
the water ; and when I consider the vast expense oc-
casioned to this nation by the war, I am ashamed to
be repeatedly worrying the ministers by applications
for more money.

I ought to let Capt. Jones know as soon as possible
whether the arms are to go with him, as he would
stow them low to serve partly for ballast. If a ship
can be obtained for them and what shall remain of
the clothing, perhaps it may be as well to excuse the
Alliance from that article and let her take more of
the clothing.

I am told the 122 bales of cloth to be shipped by
Mr, Ross for the Congress will by computation make
for 8,000 suits. These will be in addition to the
10,000 making by Mr. Williams. Those suits will be
composed of coat, waistcoat, breeches, overalls, two
pair of stockings, two pair of shoes, two shirts, two
stocks, and a hat for each man. I think there will also
be buckles. If there be any further information that
you want, let me know and I will give what I can.

With the sincerest esteem and affection, I am, dear
sir, etc., B. Franklin.

1780] Benjamin Franklin 187

DCCCLVIII

TO SAMUEL HUNTINGTON, PRESIDENT OF CONGRESS

Passy, 4 March, 1780.

Sir: — M. Gerard, under whose care I understand
the despatches from Congress to me were forwarded,
is not yet arrived here, and I have not received them.
I cannot, therefore, at present answer any thing that
may be contained in them. He is, however, expected
next week, and I may afterwards have time to write
further by the Alliance. Mr. Adams is come, but
did not bring duphcates of those despatches. I have,
in obedience to the order of Congress, which he pro-
duced to me, furnished him with one thousand louis-
d'ors. I have also given a credit to Mr. Jay upon the
correspondent of our banker at Madrid for an equal
sum. I have not yet heard of his arrival there.
His letter to me was from Cadiz, of the 28th of
January.

In my last I gave some account of the success of
our little squadron under Commodore Jones. Three
of their prizes sent into Bergen in Norway were, at
the instance of the British minister, seized by order
of the court of Denmark, and delivered up to him. I
have, with the approbation of the ministry here,
drawn up and sent to that court a memorial reclaim-
ing those prizes. It went through the hands of the
French minister residing there, who has delivered
it; but I have yet no answer. I understand from
the French consul at Bergen, that the prizes remain
still in that port, and it is said there is some hope
that the order may be reversed ; but this is doubtful,

i88 The Works of [1780

and I suppose the Congress will immediately con-
sider this important affair, and give me such in-
structions upon it as they may judge proper. With
this, I send a copy of the memorial.

During the cruise a mortal quarrel took place be-
tween the Commodore and Captain Landais. On
their arrival in Holland, M. de Sartine, Minister of
the Marine, proposed to me the sending for Landais,
in order to inquire into his conduct. I doubted the
propriety of my meddling in the affair ; but Captain
Landais' friends conceiving it a measure that might
be serviceable to him, and pressing it, I complied, and
he came accordingly to Paris. I send the minutes of
the inquiry for the consideration of Congress. I
have not presumed to condemn or acquit him, doubt-
ing as well my own judgment as my authority. He
proposes to demand a court-martial in America. In
his absence from the ship, the Commodore took the
command of her, and on quitting the Texel made a
cruise through the channel to Spain, and has since re-
turned to L 'Orient, where the ship is now refitting in
order to return to America. Captain Landais has
not applied to me to be replaced in her, and I imagine
has no thought of that kind, having before on several
occasions expressed to me and others his dissatis-
faction with his officers, and his inclination on that
account to quit her. Captain Jones will therefore
carry her home, imless he should be prevailed with
to enter another service, which, however, I think is
not likely, though he has gained immense reputation
all over Europe for his bravery.

As vessels of war under my care create me a vast

1780] Benjamin Franklin 189

deal of business, of a kind, too, that I am unexperi-
enced in, and by my distance from the coast is very
difficult to be well executed, I must repeat my ear-
nest request that some person of skill in such affairs
may be appointed in the character of consul to take
charge of them. I imagine that much would by that
means be saved in the expense of their various re-
fittings and supplies, which to me appears enormous.

Agreeably to the order of Congress, I have em-
ployed one of the best artists here in cutting the dies
for the medal intended for M. de Fleury. The price
of such work is beyond my expectation, being a
thousand livres for each die. I shall try if it is not
possible to have the others done cheaper.

Our exchange of prisoners has been for some time
past at a stand, the English Admiralty refusing, after
long consideration, to give us any men in return for
those who have been dismissed by our armed vessels
on parole, and the actual prisoners we had, being all
exchanged. When the squadron of Commodore
Jones arrived at the Texel with five hundred English
prisoners, I proposed exchanging there ; but this was
declined, in expectation, as I heard from England, of
retaking them in their way to France. The stay of
our ships in Holland, through the favor of the States,
being prolonged, and the squadron stationed to in-
tercept us being tired of cruising for us, the British
ministry consented at length to a cartel with France,
and brought Frenchmen to Holland to exchange for
those prisoners instead of Americans, These pro-
ceedings have occasioned our poor people to be kept
longer in confinement; but the Minister of the

190 The Works of [1780

Marine, having given orders that I should have as
many English, another cartel charged with Americans
is now daily expected, and I hope in a few months to
see them all at liberty. This for their sakes, and also
to save expense; for their long and hard imprison-
ment induces many to hazard attempts of escaping;
and those who get away through London and Hol-
land, and come to Paris in their way to some seaport
in France, cost, one with another, I believe, near
twenty pounds sterling a head.

The delays in the exchange have I think been
lengthened by the Admiralty, partly with the view of
breaking the patience of our people and inducing
them to enter the English service. They have spared
no pains for this purpose, and have prevailed with
some. The number of these has not indeed been
great, and several of them lost their lives in the blow-
ing up of the Quebec. I am also lately informed from
London, that the flags of truce with prisoners from
Boston, one of which is seized as British property,
will obtain no Americans in exchange ; the returned
English being told that they had no authority or
right to make such agreements with rebels, etc.
This is not the only instance in which it appears that
a few late successes have given that nation another
hour of insolence. And yet their affairs upon the
whole wear a very unpromising aspect. They have
not yet been able to find any allies in Europe. Hol-
land grows daily less and less disposed to comply
with their requisitions; Ireland is not satisfied, but
is making new demands; Scotland and the Pro-
testants in England are uneasy, and the associations

1780] Benjamin Franklin 191

of counties in England, with committees of corre-
spondence to make reforms in the government, all
taken together, give a good deal of apprehension at
present, even to their mad ministers ; while their debt,
on the point of amounting to the amazing sum of
two hundred millions, hangs as a millstone upon the
neck of their credit, and must erelong sink it beyond
redemption.

The disposition of this court continues as favorable
as ever, though it cannot comply with all our de-
mands. The supplies required, in the invoice sent
me by the Committee, appeared too great and numer-
ous to be immediately furnished. Three millions
of livres were, however, granted me, with which,
after deducting what will be necessary to pay the
interest bills, and other late drafts of Congress, I
could not venture in ordering more than ten thou-
sand suits of clothes. With these, we shall have
fifteen thousand arms and accoutrements. A good
deal of the cloth goes over in the Alliance, purchased
by Mr. Ross, which, it is computed, may make seven
or eight thousand suits more. But although we
have not obtained the invoice of goods, this court
being at immense expense in the preparations for
the next campaign, I have reason to believe that
a part of those preparations will be employed in
essential assistance to the United States, and I
hope effectual, though at present I cannot be more
particular.

I have sent to Mr. Johnson the vote of Congress
relative to the settlement of the accoimts. He has
expressed his readiness to enter on the service. Mr.

192 The Works of [1780

Deane is soon expected here, whose presence is very
necessary, and I hope with his help they may be gone
through without much difficulty. I could have
wished it had suited Mr. Lee to have been here at
the same time.

The Marquis de Lafayette, who, during his resi-
dence in France, has been extremely zealous in sup-
porting our cause on all occasions, returns again to
fight for it. He is infinitely esteemed and beloved
here, and I am persuaded will do every thing in his
power to merit a continuance of the same affection
from America. With the greatest respect, I have
the honor to be, etc.,

B. Franklin.

DCCCLIX

TO GENERAL GATES

Passy, 5 March, 1780.

I embrace this opportunity of the Marquis de La-
fayette's return to the army to salute you, my dear
old friend, and to present you with my best wishes
for your health and prosperity.

He will deliver you a book, lately published by
General Burgoyne, to explain and account for his
misfortune. The perusal may amuse you; to make
the work complete, methinks he ought to have
given us in it his proclamation contrasted with his
capitulation.

We are making great preparation here, intending
an active and hoping for a successful campaign.

May God give us soon a good peace, and bring you

1780] Benjamin Franklin 193

and I [sic] together again over a chessboard, where
we may have battles without bloodshed. I am ever,
with the highest esteem, dear sir,

B. Franklin.

DCCCLX

TO GEORGE WASHINGTON ^

Passy, 5 March, 1780.

Sir: — I have received but lately the letter your
Excellency did me the honor of writing to me in
recommendation of the Marquis de Lafayette. His
modesty detained it long in his own hands. We be-
came acquainted, however, from the time of his ar-
rival at Paris; and his zeal for the honor of our
country, his activity in our affairs here, and his firm
attachment to our cause and to you, impressed me
with the same regard and esteem for him that your
Excellency's letter would have done, had it been
immediately delivered to me.

Should peace arrive after another campaign or two,
and afford us a little leisure, I shoiild be happy to see
your Excellency in Europe, and to accompany you,
if my age and strength would permit, in visiting some
of its ancient and most famous kingdoms. You
would, on this side of the sea, enjoy the great repu-
tation you have acquired, pure and free from those
little shades that the jealousy and envy of a man's
countrymen and contemporaries are ever endeavor-
ing to cast over living merit. Here you would know,

' This is doubtless the letter which Lafayette had said would be ex-
tremely agreeable at headquarters. Supra, p. 181.

VOL. VIII. — 13.

194 The Works of [1780

and enjoy, what posterity will say of Washington.
For a thousand leagues have nearly the same effect
with a thousand years. The feeble voice of those
grovelling passions cannot extend so far either in
time or distance. At present I enjoy that pleasure
for you ; as I frequently hear the old generals of this
martial country, who study the maps of America, and
mark upon them all your operations, speak with
sincere approbation and great applause of your con-
duct; and join in giving you the character of one
of the greatest captains of the age.

I must soon quit this scene, but you may live to
see our country flourish, as it will amazingly and rap-
idly after the war is over ; like a field of young Indian
com, which long fair weather and stmshine had en-
feebled and discolored, and which in that weak state,
by a thunder-gust of violent wind, hail, and rain,
seemed to be threatened with absolute destruction;
yet the storm being past, it recovers fresh verdure,
shoots up with double vigor, and delights the eye, not
of its owner only, but of every observing traveller.

The best wishes that can be formed for your
health, honor, and happiness, ever attend you from
yours, etc., B. Franklin.

DCCCLXI

TO THE CHEVALIER DE LA LUZERNE ^

Passy, 5 March, 1780.

Sir : — I received with great pleasure the letter you
did me the honor of writing to me from Boston. I

* Successor to M. Gerard, as Minister from the French Court to the
United States.

1780] Benjamin Franklin 195

rejoiced to hear of your safe arrival, and that the
reception you met with in my country had been
agreeable to you. I hope its air will suit you, and
that, while you reside in it, you will enjoy constant
health and happiness.

Your good brother does me sometimes the honor
of calling on me, and we converse in English, which
he speaks very intelligibly. I suppose that by this
time you do the same. M. de Malesherbes did me
lately the same honor. That great man seems to
have no wish of returning into public employment,
but amuses himself with planting, and is desirous
of obtaining all those trees of North America that
have not yet been introduced into France. Your
sending him a box of seeds would, I am persuaded,
much oblige him. They may be obtained of my
yoting friend Bartram, living near Philadelphia.

You will have heard that Spain has lately met
with a little misfortune at sea, but the bravery with
which her ships fought a vastly superior force has
gained her great honor. We are anxious here for
further news from that coast, which is daily ex-
pected. Great preparations are making here for the
ensuing campaign, and we flatter ourselves that it
will be more active and successful in Europe than
the last.

One of the advantages of great states is that the
calamity occasioned by a foreign war falls only on a
very small part of the community who happen, from
their situation and particular circumstances, to be
exposed to it. Thus, as it is always fair weather in
our parlors, it is at Paris always peace. The people

196 The Works of [1780

pursue their respective occupations; the play-
houses, the opera, and other public diversions are as
regularly and fully attended as in times of profound-
est tranquillity, and the same small concerns divide
us into parties. Within these few weeks we are for
or against Jeannot, a new actor. This man's per-
formance and the marriage of the Duke de Richelieu
fill up much more of our present conversation than
any thing that relates to the war. A demonstration,
this, of the public felicity.

My grandson joins with me in best wishes for your
health and prosperity. He is much flattered by your
kind remembrance of him. We desire also that M.
de Marbois ' would accept our assurances of esteem.
I have the honor to be, with the greatest respect, sir,
etc., B. Franklin.

DCCCLXII

TO FRANCIS HOPKINSON

Passy, 6 March, 1780.

Dear Sir: — I thank you for your political Squibs;
they are well made. I am glad to find you have such
plenty of good powder.

You propose that Kill-pig, the butcher, should op-
erate upon himself. You will find some thoughts
on that subject in a little piece called A Merry
Song about Murder, in a London newspaper I send
herewith.

The greatest discovery made in Europe for some

' Secretary of the French Legation in the United States.

1780] Benjamin Franklin 197

time past is that of Dr. Ingenhousz's relating to the
great use of the leaves of trees in producing whole-
some air. I would send you his book if I had it. A
new instrument is lately invented here, ' a kind of
telescope, which, by means of Iceland crystal, occa-
sions the double appearance of an object, and the
two appearances being farther distant from each
other in proportion to the distance of the object from
the eye, by moving an index on a graduated line
till the two appearances coincide, you find on the line
the real distance of the object. I am not enough
master of this instrument to describe it accurately,
having seen it but once, but it is very ingeniously
contrived.

Remember me respectfully to your mother and sis-
ters, and believe me ever, my dear friend, yours most
affectionately, B. Franklin.

DCCCLXIII

FROM R. BERNSTORFF, MINISTER OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS
IN DENMARK

Copenhagen, 8 March, 1780.

Sir: — Were you a person less known and respected,
I should have been quite at a loss on the subject of
the letter, which I have had the honor of receiving
from you, which did not come to hand till the 31st
of January. I should have considered it as a meas-
ure calculated to place us under a new embarrass-
ment as painful as the first ; but there is no fear nor

^ By the Abb6 Rochon, of the French Academy of Sciences.

198 The Works of [1780

risk with such a sage as you are, sir, generally re-
spected by that universe which you have enlightened,
and known for that prevailing love for truth which
characterizes the good man and the true philosopher.
These are the titles which will transmit your name
to the remotest posterity, and in which I am par-
ticularly interested at the time, when the situation
of affairs imposes on me the necessity of divesting
myself of every public character, in writing to you,
and only to aspire at appearing to you what I
truly am, the earnest friend of peace, truth, and
merit.

This mode of thinking not only decides my per-
sonal sentiments with respect to you, but also those
I have respecting the unfortunate affair, which you
have thought fit to mention to me, and which, from
its commencement, has given me the utmost pain.
You will readily agree with me, sir, in granting that
there are perplexing situations in which it is impos-
sible to avoid displeasing one party. You are too
equitable not to enter into ours. There would be
no consolation in such cases, nor would the persons
who have been led into them ever be forgiven, were
it not that opportunities sometimes present them-
selves of being heard, and preventing in future such
essential embarrassments.

The Baron de Blome will speak to you in confi-
dence, and with the utmost freedom on this subject ;
and, if my wishes can be accomplished, I shall be
recompensed for all my pains, and there will only
remain the agreeable recollection of having had the
satisfaction of assuring you, from under my hand,

1780] Benjamin Franklin 199

of that perfect esteem with which I have the honor
of being, sir, etc., R. Bernstorff.

DCCCLXIV

TO CAPT. LANDAIS

Passy, 12 March, 1780.

Sir: — I received this day the two letters you did
me the honor of writing to me, dated the loth and
nth inst.

Having already twice answered very clearly and
explicitly your demand about your things, it seems
unnecessary to say any thing further on that head.
I have written long since to Capt. Jones to deliver
them to any person you may authorize to demand
and receive them. If you please, you may give that
authority to the agent you mention. I have also
already often answered your demand of my procur-
ing for you a passage to America.

M. de Chaumont having had the payment of all
expenses in equipping the squadron, will, I suppose,
have the payment of the prize-money. None of it
will pass through my hands.

After the continual quarrels between you and the
people of the Alliance, from the time of your taking
the command of her at Boston; after the repeated
written complaints made to me by you of the officers,
and by the officers of you during all the time from
your arrival in Europe to your departure on your
last cruise; after having acquainted me in writing
with your resolution not to continue in the command

200 The Works of [1780

with such officers, and expressing the same disposi-
tion in discourse to M. Chaumont; after being, as
you say, four months in Paris, in all which time you
never gave the least intimation of a wish to return to
her, nor desired any thing of me relating to her but
to have your things out of her, it is really surprising
to be now told that the officers and crew like you for
their captain, and that they hate their present com-
mander— of whom, however, they have not made to
me the least complaint; — and to have now for the
first time a demand from you of being replaced in
that ship, made only when you know she is just on
the point of sailing. The demand, however, may
perhaps be made chiefly for the sake of obtaining a
refusal, of which you seem more earnestly desirous,
as the having it to produce, may be of service to you
in America. I will not, therefore, deny it to you,
and it shall be as positive and clear as you require it.
No one has ever learnt from me the opinion I formed
of you from the inquiry made into your conduct. I
kept it entirely to myself. I have not even hinted it
in my letters to America, because I would not hazard
giving to any one a bias to your prejudice. By com-
municating a part of that opinion privately to you it
can do you no harm, for you may bum it. I should
not give you the pain of reading it if your demand
did not make it necessary. I think you, then, so
impudent, so litigious and quarrelsome a man, even
with your best friends, that peace and good order,
and, consequently, the quiet and regular subordina-
tion so necessary to success, are, where you preside,
impossible. These are matters within my observa-

i78o] Benjamin Franklin 201

tion and comprehension ; your military operations I
leave to more capable judges. If, therefore, I had
twenty ships of war in my disposition, I should not
give one of them to Captain Landais. The same
temper which excluded him from the French marine
would weigh equally with me. Of course I shall not
replace him in the Alliance.

I am assured, however, that as captain of a mer-
chant ship you have two very good qualities highly
useful to your owners, viz., economy and integrity;
for these I esteem you, and have the honor to be,
sir, etc., B. Franklin.

P. S. — I have passed over all the charges made or
insinuated against me in your letters and angry
conversations, because I would avoid continuing an
altercation for which I have neither time nor inclina-
tion. You will carry them to America, where I must
be accountable for my conduct towards you, and
where it will be my duty, if I cannot justify myself,
to submit to any censures I may have merited. Our
correspondence, which cannot be pleasant to either
of us, may therefore, if you please, end here.

DCCCLXV

TO JAMES LOVELL

Passy, 16 March, 1780.

Dear Sir:— The Marquis de Lafayette, our firm
and constant friend, returning to America, I have
written a long letter by him to the President, of

202 The Works of [1780

which a copy goes by this ship. M. Gerard is since
arrived, and I have received the despatches you men-
tioned to me, but no letter in answer to mine, a very
long one, by the Chevalier de la Luzerne, nor any
acknowledgment that it came to hand.

By the many newspapers and pamphlets I send,
you will see the present state of European affairs in
general. Ireland continues to insist on complete
liberty, and will probably obtain it. The meetings of
counties in England, and the committees of corre-
spondence they appoint, alarm a good deal the min-
istry, especially since it has been proposed to elect
out of each committee a few persons to assemble in
London, which, if carried into execution, will form
a kind of Congress, that will have more of the confi-
dence and support of the people than the old Par-
liament. If the nation is not too corrupt, as I
rather think it is, some considerable reformation
of internal abuses may be expected from this. With
regard to us, the only advantage to be reasonably
expected from it is a peace, the general bent of the
nation being for it.

The success of Admiral Rodney's fleet against our
allies has a little elated our enemies for the present,
and probably they will not now think of proposing it.
If the approaching campaign, for which great prepa-
rations are making here, should end disadvantage-
ously to them they will be more treatable ; for their
debts and taxes are daily becoming more burden-
some, while their commerce, the source of their
wealth, diminishes; and, though they have flattered
themselves with obtaining assistance from Russia

1780] Benjamin Franklin 203

and other powers, it does not appear they are Hkely
to succeed; on the contrary, they are in danger of
losing the neutrahty of Holland.

Their conduct with regard to the exchange of pris-
oners has been very unjust. After long suspense
and affected delays for the purpose of wearing out
our poor people, they have finally refused to deliver
us a man in exchange for those set at liberty by our
cruisers on parole. A letter, which I enclose, from
Captain Mitchell, will show the treatment of the late
flags of truce from Boston. There is no gaining any
thing from these barbarians by advances of civility
or humanity.

Enclosed I send for Congress the justification of
this court against the accusation published in the
late English memorials. With great esteem, etc.,

B. Franklin.

DCCCLXVI

TO THE PRESIDENT OF CONGRESS

Passy, 16 March, 1780.

Sir: — The bearer of this. Captain Hutchins, a
native of New Jersey, but many years in the Eng-
lish service, has lately escaped from England, where
he suffered considerably for his attachment to the
American cause. He is esteemed a good officer and
an excellent engineer, and is desirous of being ser-
viceable to his country. I enclose his memorial to
me, a great part of which is consistent with my
knowledge; and I beg leave to recommend him to

204 The Works of [1780

the favorable notice of Congress, when any affair
occurs in which his talents may be useful. I have
the honor to be, etc., B. Franklin.

DCCCLXVII

TO THOMAS BOND *

Passy, 16 March, 1780.

Dear Sir: — I received your kind letter of Sep-
tember the 2 2d, and I thank you for the pleasing ac-
count you give me of the health and welfare of my
old friends, Hugh Roberts, Luke Morris, Philip Syng,
Samuel Rhoads, etc., with the same of yourself and
family. Shake the old ones by the hand for me, and
give the young ones my blessing. For my own part,
I do not find that I grow any older. Being arrived
at seventy, and considering that by travelling farther
in the same road I should probably be led to the
grave, I stopped short, turned about, and walked
back again ; which having done these four years, you
may now call me sixty-six. Advise those old friends
of ours to follow my example ; keep up your spirits,
and that will keep up your bodies ; you will no more
stoop under the weight of age than if you had swal-
lowed a handspike.

I am glad the Philosophical Society made that
compliment to M. Gerard. I wish they would do
the same to M. Feutry, a worthy gentleman here,
and to Dr. Ingenhousz, who has made some great

^ a popular physician in Philadelphia.

1780] Benjamin Franklin 205

discoveries lately respecting the leaves of trees in
improving air for the use of animals. He will send
you his book. He is physician to the Empress
Queen. I have not yet seen your piece on inocula-
tion. Remember me respectfully and affectionately
to Mrs. Bond, your children, and all friends. I am
ever, etc., B. Franklin.

P. S. — I have bought some valuable books which
I intend to present to the Society, but shall not send
them till safer times.

DCCCLXVni

TO SAMUEL COOPER

Passy, 16 March, 1780.

Dear Sir: — I received your kind favor by Captain
Chavagnes, which I communicated to the minister of
marine, who was much pleased with the character
you give of the captain. I have also yours of No-
vember 12th, by your grandson, who appears a very
promising lad, in whom I think you will have much
satisfaction. He is in a boarding-school just by me,
and was well last Sunday, when I had the pleasure
of his company to dinner with Mr. Adams' sons and
some other young Americans. He will soon acquire
the language; and, if God spares his life, will make
a very serviceable man to his country.

It gives me infinite satisfaction to find that, with
you, the wisest and best among our people are so
hearty in endeavoring to strengthen the alliance.

2o6 The Works of [1780

We certainly owe much to this nation ; and we shall
obtain much more, if the same prudent conduct
towards them continues, for they really and strongly
wish our prosperity, and will promote it by every
means in their power. But we should at the same
time do as much as possible for ourselves, and not
ride (as we say) a free horse to death. There are
some Americans returning hence, with whom our
people should be upon their guard, as carrying with
them a spirit of enmity to this country. Not being
liked here themselves, they dislike the people; for
the same reason, indeed, they ought to dislike all
that know them. With the sincerest respect and
esteem, I am ever, my dear friend, yours most affec-
tionately, B. Franklin.

DCCCLXIX

TO CYRUS GRIFFIN

Passy, 16 March, 1780.

Sir: — I have just received the letter you have done
me the honor to write to me, and shall immediately
deliver the packet it recommends to my care. I will
take the first opportunity of mentioning to M. Gerard
what you hint, relative to our not entertaining
strangers so frequently and liberally, as is the cus-
tom in France. But he has travelled in Europe, and
knows that modes of nations differ. The French
are convivial, live much at one another's tables, and
are glad to feast travellers. In Italy and Spain, a
stranger, however well recommended, rarely dines

1780] Benjamin Franklin 207

at the house of any gentleman, but lives at his inn.
The Americans hold a medium. I have the honor
to be etc., B. Franklin.

DCCCLXX

TO JOHN PAUL JONES

Passy, 18 March, 1780.

Dear Sir: — I received your letter relating to the
bullets of the engineer in Denmark, and shall write
thither accordingly. I have also just received yours
of the 13th. Mr. Ross writes to me that he finds a
difficulty in passing the goods to you from L'Isle
Noirmoutier. I do, therefore, now desire you, if
practicable, to call at or off that island, in order to
take them on board, their speedy and safe arrival in
America being of the greatest consequence to the
army. I have sent my despatches by Mr. Wharton,
who set off yesterday morning. When they arrive,
and you have got the cloth on board, I know of no-
thing to retard your proceeding directly to such port
in North America as you shall judge most likely to be
reached with safety. If in other respects equal,
Philadelphia is to be preferred.

I wish the prize-money due to your people could
be paid, before they go. I have spoken often about
it. As to the prizes sent in to Norway, you know
they were delivered back to the English by the coiurt
of Denmark. I have reclaimed them by a strong
memorial, but have yet received no answer; and it is
doubted whether we shall recover any thing, unless

2o8 The Works of [1780

by letters of marque and reprisal from the Congress,
against the subjects of that kingdom, which, perhaps,
in the present circumstances, it may not be thought
proper soon to grant. The ships of war that you
took are, I hear, to be valued, the king intending to
purchase them; and the muster-roll of the Bon-
homme Richard is wanting, in order to regulate the
proportions to each ship. These things may take
time. I have considered, that the people of the
Bonhomme may want some little supplies for the
voyage, and, therefore, if these proportions should
not be regulated and paid before you sail, and you
find it necessary, you may draw on me as far as
twenty-four thousand livres to advance to them, for
which they are to be accountable; but do not ex-
ceed that sum. I do this to prevent, as much as in
me lies, the bad effects of any uneasiness among
them; for I suppose that regularly all payments
to seamen should be made at home.

A grand convoy, I understand, is to sail from Brest
about the end of this month, or beginning of the next.
It is of great importance to the United States that
not only the Alliance, but the merchantmen that may
sail under her convoy, should safely arrive there. If
it will be convenient and practicable for you to join
that convoy, and sail with it till off the coast, I wish
it may be done. But I leave it to your discretion
and judgment. I have no further instructions to
give, but, committing you to the protection of
Providence, I wish you a prosperous voyage, and a
happy sight of your friends in America ; being with
great esteem, etc., B. Franklin.

1780] Benjamin Franklin 209

DCCCLXXI

TO JOSEPH REED, PRESIDENT OF PENNSYLVANIA

Passy, 19 March, 1780.

Sir: — I beg leave to introduce to your Excel-
lency's acquaintance and civilities the Chevalier de
Chastellux, Major-General in the French troops, now
about to embark for America, whom I have long
known and esteemed highly in his several characters
of a soldier, a gentleman, and a man of letters. His
excellent book on Public Happiness shows him
the friend to mankind, and as such entitles him,
wherever he goes, to their respect and good offices.
He is particularly a friend to our cause, and I am
sure your Excellency will have great pleasure in his
conversation.^ With great esteem and respect,

B. Franklin.

DCCCLXXn

TO JOSEPH REED

Passy, 19 March, 1780.

Sir: — I have just received the pamphlet you did
me the honor to send me by M. Gerard, and have
read it with pleasure. Not only as the clear state of
facts, it does you honor, but as it proves the falsehood
of a man who also showed no regard to truth in what

^ The Chevalier de Chastellux came to the United States with Coirnt
de Rochambeau's army. After his return he published an account
of his travels, in a work entitled Voyages dans rAmerique Septen-
trionale. It was translated into English and German, and the title
of Marquis was conferred on him. — Editor.

VOL. VIII. — 14.

2IO The Works of [1780

he said of me: " that I approved of the propositions he
carried over." ' The truth is this: His brother, Mr.
Pulteney, came here with those propositions; and
after stipulating that, if I did not approve of them, I
should not speak of them to any person, he commu-
nicated them to me. I told him frankly, on his de-
siring to know my sentiments, that I did not approve
of them, and that I was sure they would not be ac-
cepted in America. "But," I said, "there are two
other commissioners here ; I will, if you please, show
your propositions to them, and you will hear their
opinions, I will also show them to the ministry here,
without whose knowledge and concurrence we can
take no step in such affairs." "No," said he, "as
you do not approve of them, it can answer no pvir-
pose to show them to anybody else ; the reasons that
weigh with you will also weigh with them; therefore,
I now pray that no mention may be made of my hav-
ing been here, or my business." To this I agreed,
and therefore nothing could be more astonishing to
me than to see, in an American newspaper, that di-
rect lie, in a letter from Mr. Johnstone, joined with
two other falsehoods relating to the time of the treaty
and to the opinion of Spain !

In proof of the above, I enclose a certificate of a
friend of Mr. Pulteney 's, the only person present at
our interview ; and I do it the rather at this time, be-
cause I am informed that another calumniator (the
same who formerly in his private letters to particu-

^ Alluding to a statement made by Governor Johnstone, one of the
British Commissioners for treating with Congress. See Remembrancer,
Vol. VII., pp. 8-i8.

1780] Benjamin Franklin 211

lar members accused you, with Messrs. Jay, Duane,
Langdon, and Harrison, of betraying the secrets of
Congress in a correspondence with the ministry) has
made this transaction with Mr. Pulteney an article of
accusation against me, as having approved the same
propositions. He proposes, I understand, to settle in
your government. I caution you to beware of him ;
for, in sowing suspicions and jealousies, in creat-
ing misunderstandings and quarrels among friends,
in malice, subtility, and indefatigable industry, he
has, I think, no equal. ^

^ The person here alluded to was Arthur Lee. The evidences of
Mr. Lee's hostility to Dr. Franklin, and the justice of this censure,
severe as it is, aboimds in this correspondence.

" It seems to us," says a writer in the North American Review, " that
there is another and much deeper cause of the settled enmity of Mr. Lee
to Dr. Franklin, which he never pretended to conceal in conversation,
or in writing to his friends, after he had been a few months in Paris.
It is well known that all his interest, and that of his friends in Con-
gress, were used to procure Dr. Franklin's recall from France, with the
view of securing Mr. Lee's appointment in his stead. His letters were
filled with censures of Dr. Franklin's conduct, boldly affirming his
unfitness for such a station, and at all events recommending that, if
it was impossible to effect his recall, he should be sent to an interior
government, where he could do neither harm nor good. A few para-
graphs from Mr. Lee's letters will set this subject in a clearer light.
To Samuel Adams he writes, on the 4th of October, 1777: 'I have
within this year been at the several courts of Spain, Vienna, and Ber-
lin, and I find this of France is the great wheel that moves them all. Here,
therefore, the most activity is requisite, and if it should ever be a
question in Congress about my destination, / should be m.uch obliged
to you for rejnembering that I should prefer being at the court of France. '
— Life of Arthur Lee, Vol. II., p. 113. Again, on the same day he
writes to his brother, Richard Henry Lee, then in Congress: 'My idea
of adapting characters and places is this: Dr. Franklin to Vienna,
as the first, most respectable, and quiet; Mr. Deane to Holland; and the
Alderman [William Lee] to Berlin, as the commercial department;
Mr. Izard where he is; Mr. Jennings at Madrid, his reserve and cir-
cumspection being excellently well adapted to that coiirt. France

212 The Works of [1780

I am glad to see that you continue to preside in
our new State, as it shows that your pubHc conduct
is approved by the people. You have had a difficult
time, which required abundance of prudence, and you
have been equal to the occasion. The disputes about
the Constitution seem to have subsided. It is much

remains the centre of political activity, and here, therefcre, I should
choose to be employed.' — P. 115. Again, to Richard Henry Lee:
'Things go on worse and worse every day among ourselves, and our
situation is more painful. I see in every department neglect, dissi-
pation, and private schemes. Being in trust here, I am responsible
for what I cannot prevent; those very men will probably be the in-
struments of having me called to an account one day for their mis-
deeds. There is but one way of redressing this, and remedying the
public evil; that is, the plan I before sent you, of appointing the
Doctor, honoris causd, to Vienna; Mr. Deane to Holland; Mr. Jennings
to Madrid; and leaving me here. In that case I should have it in my
power to call those to an account, through whose hands I know the
public money has passed, and which will either never be accounted
for or misaccounted for by the contrivance of those who are to share
in the public plunder.' — P. 127. Here truly is a most persuasive argu-
ment for Congress to make Mr. Lee Minister to France. What a
frightful picture is here drawn of the mismanagement, disorders, and
distracted condition of the American affairs at that court, and what
deplorable consequences must ensue, unless that ' one way ' is resorted
to, of sending Dr. Franklin to the capital of Austria, and sending Mr.
Lee to turn the 'great wheel' at Paris; by the magical movements of
which, under his control, an infallible remedy will be applied, and a
radical reform suddenly effected !

"In another letter to Samuel Adams, the same alluring prospect
is again held out, on the easy condition only of the same arrangement :
' If M. Lloyd is appointed agent. Dr. Franklin sent to Vienna, Mr. Deane
to Holland, and / ant left here, we shall all act in concert; and not only
have a full inquiry made into the expenditure of the public money, but
establish that order, decency, and regularity, which are lately ban-
ished from the public business at present, so as to involve us in con-
tinual confusion and expense.' — P. 137. Here we have the same
modesty in the proposal, and the same temptation to comply with it."
— North American Review, Vol. XXX., p. 505.

Mr. Lee wrote as follows to Mr. Lovell, then in Congress: "There
is nothing of which I am more persuaded, than that Duane [a member
of Congress from New York] is a secret, treacherous, and dangerotis

1780] Benjamin Franklin 213

admired here and all over Europe, and will draw over
many families of fortune to settle under it as soon as
there is a peace. The defects that may on seven
years' trial be found in it can be amended when the
time comes for considering them. With great and
sincere esteem and respect, I have the honor to be,
etc., B. Franklin.

enemy to the United States. If Congress are satisfied that, while
from the feebleness of our marine the enemy's vessels of every de-
scription are plundering our commerce and otir coast, one of our best
frigates, the Alliance, should be kept upon a cruising job of Chaumont
and Dr. Franklin, I shall be much surprised. I am sure that the latter
woiild never have ventured to do so criminal an act, were he not re-
solved never to return to his country to give an account of his conduct,
which, without some extraordinary conjuncttue, or a total violation
of justice, could not escape the severest condemnation." — Paris,
November 5, 1779.

He criminated others, as well as Dr. Franklin. Relative to the
transactions of Congress in the affair of Mr. Deane, after that Com-
missioner returned from France, he wrote: " There is, you may depend
upon it, some deep design against our independence at the bottom.
Many of the faction are, I know, actuated by the desire of getting or
retaining the public plunder; but besides this, Duane, Jay, Morris,
and others, who were originally against our independence, have it cer-
tainly in view to bring us back to our former denomination. Besides the
invincible desire such men have of seeing their system triumphant,
you know what offers of emolument and honors have been thrown
out, as a reward for those who will effect this so much desired end
for the king and his ministers. The same men who have been tempted
by avarice to pltmder the public, have avarice, vanity, and ambition
to tempt them to sell the public.'' — Paris, May 28, 1779.

Again, he wrote to J. J. Pringle: "So effectitally have the seeds sown
by the father of corruption here prospered both in Europe and Amer-
ica, that every thing yields to it. Dumas has been at Passy some
weeks, but is not permitted to come near me. Sayre tells me his object
is to get the agency for a loan into the hands of a French house. If
he offers good private reasons, it will embarrass the good Doctor ex-
ceedingly, because the house of Grand, in whose hands it is at present,
is in partnership with Deane (in which probably the Doctor may
share), and, therefore, it will wound those honorable and friendly
feelings which bind them together. As to the public, that is out of
the question." — Paris, August 3, 1779.

214 The Works of [1780

Certificate referred to above
Dear Sir: — I send you adjoined the certificate you
desire, and am perfectly convinced, from conversa-
tions I have since had with Mr. Pulteney, that no-
body was authorized to hold the language which has
been imputed to him on that subject, and as I have
a high opinion of his candor and worth, I know it
must be painful to him to be brought into question
in matters of fact with persons he esteems. I could
wish that this matter may receive no further pub-
licity than what is necessary for your justification.
I am, etc., W. Alexander.

Paris, 19 March, 1780.

I do hereby certify whom it may concern that I
was with Mr. Pulteney and Dr. Franklin at Paris,
when, in a conversation between them on the sub-
ject of certain propositions for a reconciliation with
America offered by Mr. Pulteney, Dr. Franklin said
he did not approve of them, nor did he think they
would be approved in America, but that he would
communicate them to his colleagues and the French
ministry. This Mr. Pulteney opposed, saying that
it would answer no good end, as he was persuaded
that what weighed with Dr. Franklin would weigh also
with them; and therefore desired that no mention
might be made of his having offered such propo-
sitions, or even of his having been here on such
business, but that the whole might be buried in
oblivion, agreeably to what had been stipulated by
Mr. Pulteney, and agreed to by Dr. Franklin, before
the propositions were produced, which Dr. Franklin
accordingly promised. W. Alexander.

1780] Benjamin Franklin 215

DCCCLXXIII

TO M. DE SARTINE

Passy, 20 March, 1780.

Sir: — In compliance with your Excellency's opin-
ion expressed in the letter you did me the honor of
writing to me on the T4th of October last, that I
should send for Captain Landais to Paris to give an
account of his conduct respecting the last engage-
ment with the Serapis, wherein it had appeared to
your Excellency, " that if the frigate Alliance, which
he commanded, had seconded the Bonhomme Richard
by engaging at the same time, the advantage gained
by Commodore Jones would have been sooner ob-
tained, have cost fewer lives, and not have left the
Bonhomme Richard in such a condition as to sink in
thirty-six hours after the combat," I immediately
wrote to the said Captain Landais, acquainting him
with that and other charges against him, and direct-
ing him to render himself here, and to bring with him
such evidence as he could obtain and should think
proper for his justification ; and I wrote at the same
time to the Commodore, acquainting him with this
step, and directing him to send me the evidence he
had to support the charges against Captain Landais,
contained in his letters. Captain Landais, who had
also himself desired of me to order an enquiry, was
necessarily detained some time after in Holland,
sundry accidents, such as the delay of Commodore
Jones' expected proofs, and the indisposition at
different times of myself and Captain Landais, have
drawn the enquiry to a length unexpected, and after

2i6 The Works of [1780

all I find so much contradiction in the declarations
of the parties and in the written evidence adduced
in support of them, and such an insufficiency of
marine knowledge in myself, when all the possibil-
ities are to be considered of this or that manoeuvre of
a ship under the various circumstances of wind,
tide, and situation, that I cannot presume, even if
I had authority for so doing, to condemn the con-
duct of Captain Landais, or to advise the Congress
to erase his name from the list of their sea-officers.
His regular trial will be before a court-martial, con-
sisting of a competent number of such officers, which
can only be found in America; and to that I must
therefore refer him. That court will judge how far
he is chargeable with disobedience to orders, delay
in coming to the assistance of the commodore, or
negleet of taking the merchant ships. I will only
venture to give your Excellency an opinion of mine
in his favor, that his firing into that ship instead of
the Serapis, if that fact should be found clear, cotild
never have been the effect of design, but merely
from accident occasioned by the night, or the natural
spreading of shot, for though it appeared in the course
of the enquiry that a mortal quarrel had arisen dur-
ing the cruise between the commodore and him, hu-
man nature is not yet so depraved as to hazard the
killing of many for the chance of hurting one; nor
is it probable that if Captain Landais had given such
orders his people would have obeyed them. All I
can farther do is to transmit to Congress copies of
the minutes of the enquiry with the papers produced,
and to leave Captain Landais at liberty to return to

1780] Benjamin Franklin 217

America in order to a trial. The enquiry, imperfect
as it is, has, however, had one good effect, the pre-
venting a duel in Holland between those officers,
which might have proved fatal to one or both of
them, and would at best have occasioned much in-
convenient rumor, scandal, dispute, and dissension
prejudicial to our affairs.

With the greatest respect, I have the honor to be,
sir, your Excellency's most obedient, etc.,

B. Franklin.

DCCCLXXIV

TO CHARLES W. F. DUMAS

Passy, 29 March, 1780.

Dear Sir:— I did receive the letter you mentioned
to have enclosed for Mr. Carmichael in yours of the
25th of February. I had before received a letter
from him, dated at Cadiz, acquainting me that he
was just setting out for Madrid, and desiring I
would send him a credit there for two hundred louis.
Mr. F. Grand, our banker here, had undertaken to
do this with his correspondent, a banker there. I,
not knowing how to address your letter to Mr. Car-
michael at Madrid, sent it to Mr. Grand's, to be put
under his cover to his banker, who might deliver it
to Mr. Carmichael, as he would necessarily find out
his lodging, to acquaint him with the credit.

The day after Sir George Grand was gone for Hol-
land his brother came to me, and expressing a great
deal of concern and vexation, told me that Sir George,
seeing that letter on his desk, said, this superscription

2i8 The Works of [1780

is M, Dumas' handwriting ; and some time afterwards
came to him with the letter in his open hand, saying,
this letter is full of ingratitude (or some words to that
purpose), and I will carry it to Holland and show it
to the ambassador ; and that he had accordingly car-
ried it away with him, notwithstanding all that was
or could be said to the contrary ; that it gave him
infinite pain to acquaint me with this action of his
brother, but he thought it right I should know the
truth. I did not mention this to you before, hoping
that upon reflection Sir George would not show the
letter to the ambassador, but seal it up again and
send it forward; and I was desirous to avoid in-
creasing the misunderstanding between you and Sir
George. But, as I understood by yours to M. Bou-
doin, that he has actually done it, I see no reason to
keep it longer a secret from you. If I had know it to
be a letter of consequence, I should nevertheless have
taken the same method of forwarding it, not having
the least suspicion that any person in that house
would have taken so unwarrantable a liberty with it.
But I am now exceedingly sorry that I did not rather
send it to the Spanish ambassador's. Let me know,
in your next, what you may think proper to com-
municate to me of the contents of it. I am, etc.,

B. Franklin.

DCCCLXXV

TO CHARLES W. F. DUMAS

Passy, 30 March, 1780.

Dear Sir: — I wrote to you ^^esterday, relating to
the affair of your letter to Mr. Carmichael, that you

1780] Benjamin Franklin 219

might know exactly the truth of the transaction. On
reflection, I think it proper to add that what I wrote
was for your satisfaction only ; and that, as the mak-
ing it public would give infinite pain to a very worthy
man, Mr. F. Grand, who would then appear in the
light of delateur de son frere, and it can serve no other
purpose but that of vengeance on Sir George, and be
of no advantage to you, I must insist on your gener-
osity in keeping it a secret to yourself. In this you
"will also very much oblige me, who would by no
means have my name publicly mentioned on this
occasion; and I depend on your compliance.

B. Franklin.

DCCCLXXVI

TO JOHN ROSS

Passy, 22 April, 1780.

Sir: — I duly received your favors of the 14th and
17th instant. I am sorry to understand from you
that the woollens are in such a situation as to endan-
ger their being lost to the States, but do not see why
it should be expected of me to point out a vessel for
them to be shipped in, or to approve or accept any
contract you may make for the freight of them.
The affair is yours. I never had any thing to do with
it. I know nothing of it, and am quite sick of med-
dling, as I have been too often induced to do, with
a kind of business that I am utterly unacquainted
with.

If you like Messrs. Gourlade & Moylan's vessel

220 The Works of [1780

to send them in, and approve of their terms, but want
my assistance to pay the freight, I will help you so
far. Your retaining the sail-cloth, and linens, as a
security for the payment of your advances, is what I
suppose you have a right to do. I am sure I have
none to make any objection to it ; nor should I make
any, if you thought fit to keep the cloth also. The
long and fruitless attention you mention, without re-
ceiving relief from an order of Congress, which you
suppose in my possession, was not occasioned by any
fault of mine, since I never gave you any expectation
of paying your balance, and have done all in my
power that the order required of me. Indeed, I can-
not find among the papers any order relating to your
affairs. I wish to see a copy of that you mention.
If I remember right, it was only an order that you
should settle your accounts with the Commissioners
here, which is done; not an order that they should
pay the balance.

I thank you for your kind offer of carrying letters
for me, and shall trouble you with a few ; one to our
friend Mr. Morris ; and I heartily wish you a prosper-
ous voyage.

I am exceedingly grieved at the discontents you
mention among the people of the A lliance. Unfore-
seen accidents have occasioned delays in procuring
for them their prize-money ; but the exactest justice
will be done them as soon as possible. I know not
what the manoeuvres are that you mention, which
every American will ever consider as an insult offered
to the United States. I am sorry to see, in some of
our coimtrymen, a disposition on all occasions to

1780] Benjamin Franklin 221

censure and exclaim against the conduct of this court
against us, without being well acquainted with facts,
or considering the many and substantial benefits we
have received, and are continually receiving, from its
friendship and good- will to us. With much esteem,
etc., B. Franklin.

DCCCLXXVII

TO CHARLES W. F. DUMAS

Passy, 23 April, 1780.

Dear Sir: — I am much pleased with the account
you give me of the disposition with which the pro-
posals from the Empress of Russia have been re-
ceived, and desire to be informed, from time to time,
of the progress of that interesting business.

I shall be glad to hear of your reconciliation with
the ambassador, because a continuance of your differ-
ence will be extremely inconvenient. Permit me to
tell you frankly, what I formerly hinted to you, that
I apprehend you suffer yourself too easily to be led
into personal prejudices by interested people, who
would engross all our confidence to themselves. From
this source have arisen, I imagine, the charges and
suspicions you have insinuated to me against several,
who have always declared a friendship for us, in Hol-
land. It is right that you should have an opportun-
ity of giving the carte du pays to M. Laurens, when he
arrives in Holland. But if, in order to serve your
particular friends, you fill his head with these preju-
dices, you will hurt him and them, and perhaps
yourself. There does not appear to me the least

222 The Works of [1780

probability, in your supposition, that the ambassa-
dor is an enemy to America.

Here has been with me a gentleman from Holland,
who was charged, as he said, with a verbal commis-
sion from divers cities, to inquire whether it was true
that Amsterdam had, as they heard, made a treaty
of commerce with the United States, and to express,
in that case, their willingness to enter into a similiar
treaty. Do you know any thing of this? What is
become, or likely to become, of the plan of a treaty,
formerly under consideration? By a letter from
Middlebourg, to which the enclosed is an answer, a
cargo seized and sent to America, as English property,
is reclaimed, partly on the supposition that free ships
make free goods. They ought to do so between Eng-
land and Holland, because there is a treaty which
stipulates it ; but, there being yet no treaty between
Holland and America to that purpose, I apprehend
that the goods being declared by the captain to be
English, a neutral ship will not protect them, the law
of nations governing in this case, as it did before the
treaty above mentioned. Tell me, if you please,
your opinion. I am, etc., B. Franklin.

DCCCLXXVni

TO THE JUDGES OF THE ADMIRALTY AT CHERBOURG

Passy, 16 May, 1780.

Gentlemen : — I have received the proems verbaux,
and other papers you did me the honor to send me,
agreeable to the eleventh article of the regulation of

1780] Benjamin Franklin 223

the 27th of September, 1778. These pieces relate to
the taking of the ship Flora, whereof was captain
Henry Roodenberg, bound from Rotterdam to Dub-
Hn, and arrived at Cherbourg, in France, being taken
the 7th day of April, by Captain Dowlin, commander
of the American privateer, the Black Prince.

It appears to me from the above-mentioned pa-
pers, that the said ship Flora is not a good prize, the
same belonging to the subjects of a neutral nation;
but that the cargo is really the property of the sub-
jects of the king of England, though attempted to be
masked as neutral. I do therefore request that, after
the cargo shall be landed, you would cause the said
ship Flora to be immediately restored to her captain,
and that you would oblige the captors to pay him his
full freight, according to his bills of lading, and also
to make good all the damages he may have sustained
by plunder or otherwise ; and I further request that,
as the cargo is perishable, you would cause it to be
sold immediately, and retain the produce deposited
in your hands, to the end that, if any of the freight-
ers, being subjects of their High Mightinesses the
States-General, will declare upon oath, that certain
parts of the said cargo were bond fide shipped on their
own account and risk, and not on the account and
risk of any British or Irish subjects, the value of such
parts may be restored; or that, if the freighters, or
any of them, should think fit to appeal from this
judgment to the Congress, the produce so deposited
may be disposed of according to their final deter-
mination. I have the honor to be, etc.,

B. Franklin.

224 The Works of [1780

DCCCLXXIX

NOTE FOR HIS EXCELLENCY, MONSIEUR LE COMTE DE

VERGENNES

16 May, 1780.

When the Alliance frigate arrived in France, Mr.
Frankhn was desirous of employing her in annoying
the Enghsh trade, and obtaining prisoners to ex-
change for the Americans who had long languished
in the prisons of England.

A cruise with a small squadron, under Commodore
Jones round the coast of Britain being about that
time intended, Mr. Franklin was requested by his
Excellency the Minister of the Marine to join the
Alliance to that squadron. He cheerfully complied
with that request, and in his instructions to Capt.
Jones he encouraged him by the hopes of his being
useful to his country in delivering so many poor
prisoners from their captivity.

As the squadron acted under American commis-
sion and colors, was commanded by an American
chief, and was thence understood to be American, our
countrymen in the British prisons rejoiced to hear
of its success, and that 500 English were made pris-
oners in the cruise, by an exchange with whom they
hoped to obtain their liberty, and to return to their
families and country.

The Alliance alone took vessels containing near
200 of those English prisoners. The Bonhomme
Richard, which was manned chiefly by Americans,
took in the Serapis a great part of the remainder.

The ambassador of France at the Hague applied
to Commodore Jones for the prisoners in order to

1780] Benjamin Franklin 225

execute a cartel entered into with the ambassador
of England. Commodore Jones declined delivering
them without orders from Mr. Franklin. The am-
bassador did Mr. Franklin the honor of writing to
him on the subject, acquainting him that Mr. Jones
had urged the exchanging them for Americans, and
promising to use his endeavors for that purpose.

Mr. Franklin thereupon immediately sent the
orders desired, expressing at the same time his
confidence in the ambassador's promise.

The prisoners were accordingly delivered, but they
were actually exchanged for French.

His Excellency M. de Sartine afterwards acquaint-
ing Mr. Franklin that he had not English prisoners
enough at L 'Orient to fill an English cartel then
there, Mr. Franklin gave orders that forty-eight he
had in that port should be delivered up for that pur-
pose, thirty-eight others at Brest to be employed in
the same manner.

Mr. Franklin was afterwards informed by M. De
Chaumont that M. de Sartine had assured him that
other English prisoners should be furnished to ex-
change for those so given up, in Holland and in
France.

Mr. Franklin wrote accordingly to England, and a
cartel vessel was thereupon ordered from Plymouth
to Morlaix with 100 Americans. As soon as Mr.
Franklin was acquainted with this he applied through
M. de Chaumont to M. de Sartine for an equal num-
ber of English, who readily agreed to furnish them,
and promised to send orders immediately to march
100 from Saumur to Morlaix.

VOL. VIII. 15.

226 The Works of [1780

The cartel arrived, landed the 100 Americans, but
was sent back empty, with only a receipt from the
commissary of the port, no English being arrived
for the exchange.

Mr. Franklin has since received letters from Eng-
land, acquainting him that he is charged with breach
of faith, and with deceiving the board which had the
charge of managing the exchange of prisoners, and a
stop is put to that exchange in consequence.

The poor American prisoners there, many of
whom have been confined two or three years, and
have bravely resisted all the temptations, accom-
panied with threats, and followed by ill usage, to
induce them to enter into the English service, are
now in despair, seeing their hopes of speedy liberty
ruined by this failure.

His Excellency M. de Sartine has kindly and re-
peatedly promised, by M. de Chaumont, to furnish
the number wanted — about 400 — for exchanging the
said Americans.

But it is now said that the king's order is necessary
to be first obtained.

Mr. Franklin therefore earnestly requests his Ex-
cellency M. Le Comte de Vergennes to support the
proposition in council, and thereby obtain liberty
for those unfortunate people.

1780] Benjamin Franklin 227

DCCCLXXX

TO THE OFFICERS OF THE ADMIRALTY OF VANNES

Passy, 18 May, 1780,

Gentlemen: — By the declaration and report to
me made by the Honorable Commodore Jones, a
copy of which declaration I herewith send you, it
appears to me that the British ship of war (the
Serapis) therein mentioned to be met with, when
convoying a fleet of the same nation from the Bal-
tic and taken by the Bonhonime Richard, which was
commissioned by the Congress and commanded by
the aforesaid Commodore, is imdoubtedly a good
prize, being taken from the enemies of the United
States of America. And I do accordingly hereby
desire of you that you would proceed to the sale of
the above said prize, in conformity to his Majesty's
regulation of September 27, 1788.

I have the honor to be, etc.,

B. Franklin.

DCCCLXXXI

FROM LAROCHEFOUCAULD d'eNVILLE

La Rocheguyon, 22 May, 1780.

Sir: — The residence of your grandson at Geneva
makes me hope that the citizens of that town may
have some claim to your kind attention. It is with
this hope that I ask it for two young men, whom
the love of glory and liberty draws to America. One
of them is named Gallatin ; he is nineteen years old,
well informed for his age, of an excellent character

228 The Works of [1780

thus far, with much natural talent. The name of
the other is Ser. They have concealed their project
from their parents, and therefore we cannot tell
where they will land. It is supposed, however, that
they are going to Philadelphia, or to the Continental
army. One of my friends gives me this informa-
tion, with the request that I will urge you to favor
them with a recommendation. I shall share in his
gratitude, and I beg you, sir, to be assured of the
sentiments, with which I have the honor to be, etc.,
Larochefoucauld d'Enville.

DCCCLXXXII

TO THE PRESIDENT OF CONGRESS

Passy, 22 May, 1780.

Sir: — The Baron d'Arendt, Colonel in the armies
of the United States, having expressed to me a desire
of returning to the service in America, though not
entirely cured of his wound, which occasioned his
voyage to Europe, I endeavored to dissuade him
from the undertaking. But, he having procured a
letter to me from M. de Vergennes, of which I send
your Excellency a copy herewith, I have been in-
duced to advance him twenty-five louis d'ors towards
enabling him to proceed. To justify his long ab-
sence, he intends laying before Congress some letters
from William Lee, which he thinks will be sufficient
for that purpose. With great respect, etc.,

B. Franklin.

1780] Benjamin Franklin 229

DCCCLXXXIII

FROM SAMUEL COOPER TO B. FRANKLIN

Boston, 23 May, 1780.

My Dear Sir: — I received some months past your
letter from Passy, dated October 27, 1779, and lately
a copy of it by the Marquis de Lafayette, who ar-
rived here in the Hermione, with M. Corny. As the
arrival of the Marquis diffused a general joy, every
expression of it was given here that circumstances
would allow, and particular respects paid by the
government, as well as the people, to this prudent
and gallant young nobleman, who keeps the cause
of America so warm at his heart. In these respects
M. Corny had his share, as well as Captain Latouche,
commander of the frigate. The former, a gentleman
of letters and great politeness, who acquired much
esteem in this town in a little time, is gone on to
head-quarters, and from thence to Congress; the
latter, who offered the service of the frigate he com-
manded to the government of this State in the true
spirit of the alliance, has just returned from a short
cruise on our coast undertaken at the desire of the
Council. He has visited Penobscot, taken a near
view of the fort, made two British sloops-of-war
commanded by Mowat, who burnt Falmouth, retire
up the river, brought us an accurate plan of the
fortress, and done every thing that time and cir-
cumstances would allow for our service. The pres-
ence of this frigate, under the command of so brave
an officer, and so warmly affected to the common
cause, will be of great advantage to the trade of this

230 The Works of [1780

State, and particularly to the supply of this town
with wood, which has been at an exorbitant price
since the enemy have taken possession of Penobscot.
Such instances of friendship make the most agree-
able impressions on the minds of the people here,
and cultivate the alliance; and I cannot but ob-
serve with pleasure evident marks of the growing
friendship between the two nations.

It is impossible, my dear sir, that I should ever
lose the deep respect, and affection I have for you,
dum memor ipse mei, dum spiritus hos regit artus.
Your friendship has united two things in my bosom
that seldom meet, pride and consolation ; it has been
the honor and balm of my life. It has much affected
me, that the turbulence and uncertainty of the times,
together with the weakness of my nerves, which has
often unfitted me for writing, should occasion to
your view any semblance of neglect. I confess, I
have not written so often as my heart dictated;
but I have written repeatedly. I have been the
more concerned at the miscarriage of my letters,
because they contained some things relating to the
Count d'Estaing, for whom I have the greatest re-
spect; whose great talents as a commander, whose
intrepidity, vigilance, secrecy, assiduity, quick de-
cision, prudence, and unabated affection to the com-
mon cause, united with a surprising command of
himself in delicate circumstances, and on the most
trying occasions (an instance of which we had at
Newport), I can never sufficiently commend. I
thought it ought to be known at the court of France,
in what high estimation he was held here; but for

1780] Benjamin Franklin 231

whose uncommon prudence, the alliance might have
received, from the indiscretion of some among us,
an early wound.

Mr. Bradford, to whom I commit the care of this
letter, intended to have sailed directly to Holland,
in his way to France; but the owners have altered
the destination of the vessel first to Gottenburg.
As another vessel will soon sail for France or Holland,
I hope to write more particularly by that; and am,
sir, with every sentiment of esteem and friendship,
etc., Samuel Cooper.

DCCCLXXXIV

TO AN AGENT FOR AMERICAN CRUISERS

Passy, 30 May, 1780.

Sir: — In my last, of the 27th instant, I omitted
one thing I had intended, viz., to desire you would
give absolute orders to your cruisers not to bring in
any more Dutch vessels, though charged with en-
emy's goods, unless contraband. All the neutral
States of Europe seem at present disposed to change
what had before been deemed the law of nations, to
wit, that an enemy's property may be taken wher-
ever found; and to establish a rule, that free ships
shall make free goods. This rule is itself so reason-
able, and of a nature to be so beneficial to mankind,
that I cannot but wish it may become general. And
I make no doubt but that the Congress will agree to
it, in as full an extent as France and Spain. In the
meantime, and until I have received their orders on

232 The Works of [1780

the subject, it is my intention to condemn no more
EngHsh goods found in Dutch vessels, unless contra-
band; of which I thought it right to give you this
previous notice, that you may avoid the trouble and
expense likely to arise from such captures, and from
the detention of them for a decision. With great
regard, and best wishes for the success of your
enterprise, I have the honor to be, etc.,

B. Franklin.

DCCCLXXXV

TO THE PRESIDENT OF CONGRESS

Passy, 31 May, 1780.

Sir : — I wrote to your Excellency the 4th of March
past, to go by this ship, the Alliance, then expected
to sail immediately. But, the men refusing to go
till paid their shares of prize-money, and sundry
difficulties arising with regard to the sale and di-
vision, she has been detained thus long, to my great
mortification, and I am yet uncertain when I shall
be able to get her out. The trouble and vexation
which these maritime affairs give me is inconceiv-
able. I have often expressed to Congress my wish
to be relieved from them, and that some person
better acquainted with them, and better situated,
might be appointed to manage them; much money
as well as time would, I am sure, be saved by such an
appointment.

The Alliance is to carry some of the cannon long
since ordered, and as much of the powder, arms, and

1780] Benjamin Franklin 233

clothing (furnished by government here), as she, to-
gether with a frigate, the Ariel, we have borrowed,
can take. I hope they may between them take the
whole, with what has been provided by Mr. Ross.
This gentleman has, by what I can learn, served the
Congress well in the quahty and prices of the goods
he has purchased. I wish it had been in my power to
discharge his balance here, for which he has impor-
tuned me rather too much. We furnished him with
about twenty thousand pounds sterhng to discharge
his first accounts, which he was to replace as soon as
he received remittances from the Committee of Com-
merce. This has not been done, and he now de-
mands another nearly equal sum, urging, as before,
that the credit of the States as well as his own will
be hurt by my refusal.

Mr. Bingham, too, complains of me for refusing
some of his drafts, as very hurtful to his credit,
though he owns he had no orders from Congress to
authorize those drafts. I never undertook to pro-
vide for more than the payment of the interest bills
of the first loan. The Congress have drawn on me
very considerably for other purposes, which has
sometimes greatly embarrassed me, but I have duly
accepted and found means to pay their drafts; so
that their credit in Europe has been well supported.
But, if every agent of Congress in different parts of
the world is permitted to run in debt, and draw upon
me at pleasure to support his credit, under the idea
of its being necessary to do so for the honor of Con-
gress, the difficulty upon me will be too great, and
I may in fine be obliged to protest the interest bills.

234 The Works of [1780

I therefore beg that a stop may be put to such
irregular proceedings.

Had the loans proposed to be made in Europe suc-
ceeded, these practices might not have been so incon-
venient; but the number of agents from separate
States running all over Europe, and asking to bor-
row money, has given such an idea of our distress and
poverty as makes everybody afraid to trust us. I am
much pleased to find that Congress has at length re-
solved to borrow of our own people, by making their
future bills bear interest. This interest duly paid in
hard money, to such as require hard money, will fix
the value of the principal, and even make the pay-
ment of the interest in hard money for the most part
unnecessary, provided always that the quantity of
principal be not excessive.

A great clamor has lately been made here by some
merchants, who say they have large sums in their
hands of paper-money in America, and that they are
ruined by some resolution of Congress, which reduces
its value to one part in forty. As I have had no let-
ter explaining this matter, I have only been able to
say that it is probably misunderstood, and that I am
confident the Congress have not done, nor will do, any
thing unjust towards strangers who have given us
credit. I have indeed been almost ready to com-
plain that I hear so little and so seldom from Con-
gress, or from the Committee of Correspondence;
but I know the difficulty of communication, and
the frequent interruption it meets in this time of
war. I have not yet received a line this year, and
the letters written by the Confederacy, as I suppose

1780] Benjamin Franklin 235

some must have been written by her, have not yet
come to hand.

I mentioned in a former letter my having commu-
nicated to Mr. Johnson of Nantes, the order of Con-
gress appointing him to examine the account, and
his acceptance of the appointment. Nothing, how-
ever, has yet been done in pursuance of it ; for, Mr.
Deane having written that he might be expected
here by the middle of March, and as his presence
would be very useful in explaining the mercantile
transactions, I have waited his arrival to request
Mr. Johnson's coming to Paris, that his detention
here from his affairs at Nantes might be as short as
possible. Mr, Deane has not yet come; but, as we
have heard of the arrival of the Fendant in Martinique,
in which ship he took his passage, we imagine he may
be here in some of the first ships from that island.

The medal for M. de Fleury is done and delivered
to his order, he being absent ; I shall get the others
prepared as soon as possible, by the same hand, if I
cannot find a cheaper equally good, which I am now
inquiring after. Two thousand livres appear to me
a great sum for the work.

With my last I sent a copy of my memorial to the
court of Denmark. I have since received an answer
from the minister of that court for foreign affairs, a
copy of which I enclose. It referred me to the Dan-
ish minister here, with whom I have had a conference
on the subject. He was full of professions of the good-
will of his court to the United States, and would ex-
cuse the delivery of our prizes to the English, as done
in conformity to treaties, which it was necessary to

236 The Works of [1780

observe. He had not the treaty to show me, and
I have not been able to find such a treaty on in-
quiry. After my memorial, our people left at Ber-
gen were treated with the greatest kindness by an
order from court, their expenses during the winter
that they had been detained there all paid, neces-
saries furnished to them for their voyage to Dunkirk,
and a passage thither found for them all at the king's
expense. I have not dropped the application for
a restitution, but shall continue to push it, not with-
out some hopes of success. I wish, however, to re-
ceive instructions relating to it, and I think a letter
from Congress to that court might forward the busi-
ness; for I believe they are sensible they have done
wrong, and are apprehensive of the inconveniences
that may follow. With this I send the protests
taken at Bergen against the proceeding.

The Alliance, in her last cruise, met with and sent
to America a Dutch ship, supposed to have on board
an English cargo. The owners have made applica-
tion to me. I have assured them that they might
depend on the justice of our courts, and that if they
could prove their property there, it would be re-
stored. M. Dumas has written to me about it. I
enclose his letter, and wish despatch may be given
to the business, as well to prevent the inconveniences
of a misunderstanding with Holland, as for the sake
of justice.

A ship of that nation has been brought in here by
the Black Prince, having an English cargo. I con-
sulted with Messrs. Adams and Dana, who informed
me that it was an established rule with us in such

1780] Benjamin Franklin 237

cases to confiscate the cargo, but to release the ship,
paying her freight, etc. This I have accordingly or-
dered in the case of this ship, and hope it may be sat-
isfactory. But it is a critical time with respect to
such cases; for, whatever may formerly have been
the law of nations, all the neutral powers at the in-
stance of Russia seem at present disposed to change
it, and to enforce the rule that free ships shall make
jree goods, except in the case of contraband. Den-
mark, Sweden, and Holland have already acceded
to the proposition, and Portugal is expected to fol-
low. France and Spain, in their answers, have also
expressed their approbation of it. I have, there-
fore, instructed our privateers to bring in no more
neutral ships, as such prizes occasion much litigation,
and create ill blood.

The Alliance, Captain Landais, took two Swedes in
coming hither, who demand of us for damages, one
upward of sixty thousand livres, and the other near
five hundred pounds sterling; and I cannot well see
how the demand is to be settled. In the newspapers
that I send, the Congress will see authentic pieces,
expressing the sense of the European powers on the
subject of neutral navigation. I hope to receive the
sense of Congress for my future government, and for
the satisfaction of the neutral nations now entering
into the confederacy, which is considered here as a
great stroke against England.

In truth, that country seems to have no friends on
this side of the water ; no other nation wishes it suc-
cess in its present war, but rather desires to see it ef-
fectually humbled ; no one, not even their old friends,

238 The Works of [1780

the Dutch, will afford them any assistance. Such is
the mischievous effect of pride, insolence, and injus-
tice on the affairs of nations, as well as on those of
private persons!

The English party in Holland is daily diminishing,
and the States are arming vigorously to maintain the
freedom of their navigation. The consequence may
possibly be a war with England, or a serious disposi-
tion in that mad nation to save what they can by a
timely peace.

Oiu" cartel for the exchange of American prisoners
has been some time at a stand. When our little
squadron brought near five hundred into Holland,
England would not at first exchange Americans for
them there, expecting to take them in their passage
to France. But at length an agreement was made
between the English and French ambassadors, and I
was persuaded to give them up, on a promise of
having an equal number of English delivered to my
order at Morlaix. So those were exchanged for
Frenchmen. But the English now refuse to take any
English in exchange for Americans that have not
been taken by American cruisers. They also refuse
to send me any Americans in exchange for their
prisoners released, and sent home by the two flags
of truce from Boston. Thus they have given up all
pretensions to equity and honor, and govern them-
selves by caprice, passion, and transient views of
present interest.

Be pleased to present my duty to Congress, and
believe me to be, with great respect, your Excel-
lency's, etc., B. Franklin.

1780] Benjamin Franklin 239

DCCCLXXXVI

TO THE PRESIDENT OF CONGRESS

Passy, I June, 1780.

Sir: — Commodore Jones, who by his bravery and
conduct has done great honor to the American flag,
desires to have that also of presenting a line to the
hands of your Excellency. I cheerfully comply with
his request, in recommending him to the notice
of Congress, and to your Excellency's protection;
though his actions are a more effectual recommenda-
tion, and render any from me tmnecessary. It
gives me, however, an opportunity of showing my
readiness to do justice to merit, and of professing
the esteem and respect with which I am your Ex-
cellency's, etc., B. Franklin.

DCCCLXXXVII

TO ROBERT MORRIS

Passy, 3 June, 1780.

Dear Sir: — I received your kind letter of March
31st, acquainting me with your having engaged in
M. de la Frete's affairs, on my recommendation. I
thank you very much, and beg you to be assured that
any recommendation of yours will be regarded by me
with the greatest attention. The letter you enclosed
to M, Dumas is forwarded to him. We are impatient
to hear from America, no account of the operations
before Charleston, later than the gth of March, hav-
ing yet come to hand.

240 The Works of [1780

Every thing here in Europe continues to wear a
good face. Russia, Sweden, Denmark, and Holland
are raising a strong naval force to establish the free
navigation for neutral ships, and of all their cargoes,
though belonging to enemies, except contraband,
that is, military stores. France and Spain have
approved of it, and it is likely to become henceforth
the law of nations, that free ships make free goods.
England does not like this confederacy, I wish they
would extend it still further, and ordain that un-
armed trading ships, as well as fishermen and farmers,
should be respected, as working for the common
benefit of mankind, and never be interrupted in
their operations, even by national enemies; but let
those only fight with one another whose trade it is,
and who are armed and paid for the purpose. With
great and sincere esteem, I am, etc.,

B. Franklin.

DCCCLXXXVIII

TO DE NEUFVILLE & SON

Passy, 4 Jtme, 1780.

Gentlemen: — I received the letter you did me
the honor of writing to me on the 29th past, relating
to certain bills drawn on Mr. Laurens, and requesting
to know if I will engage to reimburse you if you in
his absence accept and pay them. As I have re-
ceived no order nor any advice relating to any such
bills, know not by whom they are drawn, whether for
private or public accoimt, or whether they are true or

x78o] Benjamin Franklin 241

counterfeit, what quantity or value there are of them,
nor, in short, any one circumstance relating to them,
it would be inconsistent with common prudence for
me to enter into any such general engagement.

All I can say is, that if they are really drawn by
order of Congress, I make no doubt but care will be
taken to place funds in time for the punctual pay-
ment of them. I thank you on behalf of the Con-
gress for the readiness with which you kindly offer
your service in the case. But I can say nothing
further at present, to encourage your paying such
bills. I have the honor to be with much esteem,
gentlemen,

Your most obedient and most humble servant,

B. Franklin.

DCCCLXXXIX

TO CHARLES W. F. DUMAS

Passy, 5 June, 1780.

Dear Sir: — The gentleman, whose name you
wished to know, in one of your late letters, is M.
Westhuysen, Echevin et Conseiller de la Ville de Har-
lem. I shall probably send an order to that place for
some of the types, of which you have sent me the
prices, hejore I leave Europe. I think them very
good and not dear.

A Dutch ship belonging to Messrs. Little, Dale, &
Co., of Rotterdam, being brought into France as hav-
ing an English cargo on board, I have followed your
opinion with regard to the condemnation of the

VOL. VIII. 16.

242 The Works of [1780

cargo, which I think the more right, as the English have
in the West Indies confiscated several of our cargoes
found in Dutch ships. But, to show respect to the
declaration of the Empress of Russia, I have written
to the owners of our privateers a letter, of which I
enclose a copy, together with a copy of the judgment,
for your use, if you hear of any complaint.' I ap-
prove much of the principles of the confederacy
of the neutral powers, and am not only for respecting
the ships as the house of a friend, though containing
the goods of an enemy, but I even wish, for the sake
of humanity, that the law of nations may be further
improved, by determining that, even in time of war,
all those kinds of people who are employed in pro-
curing subsistence for the species, or in exchanging
the necessaries or conveniences of life, which are for
the common benefit of mankind, such as husbandmen
on their lands, fishermen in their barques, and traders
in unarmed vessels, shall be permitted to prosecute
their several innocent and useful employments with-
out interruption or molestation, and nothing taken
from them, even when wanted by an enemy, but on
paying a fair price for the same.

I think you have done well to print the letter of
Clinton; for, though I have myself had suspicions
whether some parts of it were really written by him,
yet I have no doubt of the facts stated, and think
the piece valuable, as giving a true account of the
British and American affairs in that quarter. On the
whole, it has the appearance of a letter written by a
general who did not approve of the expedition he

^ See the letter to "An Agent of American Crmsers," Supra, p. 231.

1780] Benjamin Franklin 243

was sent upon, who had no opinion of the judgment
of those who drew up his instructions, who had ob-
served that the preceding commanders. Gage, Bur-
goyne, Keppel, and the Howes, had all been censured
by the ministers for having unsuccessfully attempted
to execute injudicious instructions with unequal
force; and he therefore wrote such a letter, not
merely to give the information contained in it, but to
be produced in his vindication, when he might be re-
called, and his want of success charged upon him as
a crime; though, in truth, owing to the folly of the
ministers, who had ordered him on impracticable
projects, and persisted in them, notwithstanding
his faithful informations, without furnishing the
necessary^ number of troops he had demanded. In
this view, much of the letter may be accounted for,
without supposing it fictitious; and therefore, if not
genuine, it is ingeniously written. But you will
easily conceive that, if the state of public facts it
contains were known in America to be false, such
a publication there would have been absurd, and
of no possible use to the cause of the country.

I have written to M. Neufville concerning the bills
you mention. I have no orders or advice about
them, know nothing of them, and therefore cannot
prudently meddle with them; especially as the funds
in my power are not more than sufficient to answer
the Congress bills for interest and other inevitable
demands. He desired to know, whether I would en-
gage to reimburse him, if he should accept and pay
them; but, as I know not the amount of them, I can-
not enter into any such engagement; for though, if

244 The Works of [1780

they are genuine Congress bills, I am persuaded all
possible care will be taken by Congress to provide
for their punctual payment, yet there are so many
accidents, by which remittances are delayed or inter-
cepted in the time of war, that I dare not hazard for
these new bills, the possibility of being rendered un-
able to pay the others^ With great esteem, I am,
etc., B. Franklin.

DCCCXC

TO DE NEUFVILLE & SON

Passy, 6 June, 1780.

Gentlemen — Since writing to you by yesterday's
mail, I have received the honor of yours proposing
to accept bills drawn on Mr. Laurens, if I will au-
thorize you so to do, and accept your bill to equal
amount. Having no orders about those bills, or even
any advice of such being drawn, and knowing that
the English have played many villainous tricks with
our paper, I cannot think of giving power to an-
other, who may be less acquainted with our American
handwritings and printing, to accept bills which I
have never seen, and, therefore, cannot judge whether
they are counterfeit or genuine, and in this way make
myself or the Congress accountable for unknown
sums. I believe no prudent man would so expose
himself or the government of his country.

I thank you, however, for the zeal and readiness
you show to support our credit.

When Mr. Laurens arrives, he will doubtless accept

1780] Benjamin Franklin 245

any good drafts made upon him, and accept them as
of the date when they would have been presented, if
he had been at Amsterdam when they were received,
because this is just, and I make no doubt but they
will be pimctually paid as to loans in Holland. I be-
lieve the Congress have laid aside all thoughts of
them, having fallen upon means of borrowing at
home of their own people, by issuing paper-money
bearing interest, which appears better and more ad-
vantageous to the country than paying interest
abroad. You may see their scheme as resolved
March 1 8th, printed in the London Evening Post of May
25th; and, having come to this resolution, I fancy
they cannot have drawn many bills on Mr. Laurens.
With great regard, I am, gentlemen, your most
obedient and most humble servant,

B. Franklin.

DCCCXCI

to capt. landais, late commander of the
"alliance," l'orient

Passy, 7 June, 1780.

Sir: — I received yours of the 29th past, and after
the manner in which you quitted the ship, my clear
and positive refusal of replacing you, contained in
mine of March the 12th, and my furnishing you with
a considerable sum to enable you to go to America
for a trial, I am surprised to find you at L 'Orient
when I thought you had long since been on your voy-
age ; and to be told that " you had been waiting ever

246 The Works of [1780

since your arrival there for my orders, to retake the
command of the Alliance," when I had never before
heard of your being there, or given you the least ex-
pectation of the kind. The whole affair between us
will be laid before our superiors, who will judge justly
of the consistency and propriety of your conduct and
of mine. I waive therefore any further dispute with
you. But I charge you not to meddle with the com-
mand of the Alliance, or create any disturbance on
board her, as you will answer the contrary at your
peril. I am, sir, yours, etc., B. Franklin.

DCCCXCII

TO THE LIEUTENANT JAMES DEGGE OF THE SHIP " AL-
LIANCE," AND THE OTHER OFFICERS OF THE
SAID SHIP, AT l'ORIENT

Passy, June 7, 1780.

Gentlemen: — I received your letter dated the
12th April past, expressing that you were in neces-
sitous circumstances and that you were alarmed at
having received neither wages nor prize-money when
the ship was so nearly prepared for sea.

Having had nothing to do with the prizes, and un-
derstanding that they could not soon be turned into
money, I had answered the purpose of your letter in
the best manner in my pov\^er, by advancing twenty-
four thousand livres, to supply the most urgent of
your necessities, till the prize-money could be ob-
tained. With regard to your wages, I thought the

1780] Benjamin Franklin 247

expectation of having them paid here was wrong.
Nobody in Europe is empowered to pay them.
And I beheve it a rule with all maritime states to
pay their ships only at home, by an office where the
accounts are kept, and where only it can be known,
what agreement we made with the officers and men,
what advances they have received, and what their
families or attorneys may have received in their ab-
sence. I had many letters and informations from
L 'Orient, acquainting me with the discontent among
the people of the Alliance at the method proposed
of valuing the prizes in order to their being paid by
the king; and that our ship would not possibly be
got out, unless the method was changed and the
prizes fairly sold at auction to the highest bidder.
I then applied to have the change made, and it was
readily agreed by the minister of the marine, that
they should be so sold. But to sell them suddenly
would again have been hable to objection; and
therefore time was given in the advertisements, that
distant purchasers of ships might know of the sale,
and a greater number of buyers give a chance of a
higher price, for your benefit. Had the first method
been complied with, I am inclined to think, from his
Majesty's known generosity, a better price would
have been obtained — as similar instances have
proved — than is likely to be got by the sale, and you
would have had your money sooner. I consented
to the change to satisfy and if possible please you.
The delay was by no means agreeable to me, as it
occasioned a great additional expense, and I heartily
wished the ship in America.

248 The Works of [1780

I did, as you have heard, send a memorial to the
court of Denmark, claiming a restitution of the prizes,
or their value. This memorial was received long
before they sailed from Bergen. They were never-
theless allowed to depart for England ; and the only
answer I have had from that court is, that the resti-
tution was made in pursuance of treaties between
the two crowns. I am not satisfied with this
answer, but have laid the whole matter before
Congress, desiring their instructions. You may be
assured that not a penny of the value has yet been
paid; and that if ever any thing is recovered while
I am concerned in the business, strict justice shall
be done you, which I have also no doubt will be
done with regard to the Serapis and Countess of
Scarborough.

Having received several letters from you formerly,
complaining in strong terms of Capt. Landais' con-
duct in the government of the ship and his ill treat-
ment of all the officers except the purser ; and having
received also from Capt. Landais himself a letter
dated at L 'Orient, May 15, 1779, in which he says
you all joined together against him even before he
left Boston; that he was promised another set, but
being ready to sail, the Navy Board said your be-
havior would be better when at sea ; on the contrary,
it grew worse and worse, and was come to the pitch
that he was compelled to acquaint me with it, that I
might take a proper method to remedy it ; and if no
other was to be found, he would rather choose to
leave the command than continue with such officers ;
after all this, it is a little surprising to me that Capt.

1780] Benjamin Franklin 249

Landais, who came to Paris only to vindicate himself
from some charges against him, and there voluntarily
as I thought, and in pursuance of his former resolu-
tion, relinquished the ship, by desiring me repeatedly
to give an order for taking out of her the things he
had on board; and who, never once during all the
time he stayed here, expressed the least wish or gave
the least hint of a desire to be continued in her, till he
heard she was upon the point of sailing, and that now
he should demand to be replaced over you, and that
you should wish to be again under his command. I
know not how to account for this change. But hav-
ing agreed to what I imagined from the letters on
both sides would be agreeable to both you and Capt.
Landais, and placed another captain in the ship, I
cannot now comply with your request. I have re-
lated exactly to Congress the manner of his leaving
the ship, and though I declined any judgment of his
manoeuvres in the fight, I have given it as my opin-
ion, after examining the affair, that it was not at all
likely either that he should have given orders to fire
into the Bonhomme Richard, or that his officers would
have obeyed such orders if he had given them. Thus
I have taken what care I could of your honor in that
particular; you will therefore excuse me if I am a
little concerned for it in another. If it should come
to be publicly known that you had the strongest
aversion to Capt. Landais, who had used you basely,
and that it is only since the last year's cruise, and the
appointment of Commodore Jones to the command,
that you request to be again under your old captain,
I fear suspicions and reflections may be thrown upon

250 The Works of [1780

you by the world, as if this change of sentiment must
have arisen from your observations during that cruise,
that Capt. Jones loved close fighting, that Capt. Lan-
dais was skilful in keeping out of harm's way, and
that therefore you thought yourselves safer with the
latter. For myself, I believe you to be brave men,
and lovers of your country and its glorious cause;
and I am persuaded you have only been ill advised,
and misled by the artful and malicious misrepresenta-
tions of some persons I guess at. Take in good
part this friendly counsel of an old man who is your
friend. Go home peaceably with your ship ; do your
duties faithfully and cheerfully. Behave respect-
fully to your commander, and I am persuaded he
will do the same to you. Thus you will not only be
happier in your voyage, but recommend yourselves
to the future favors of Congress, and to the esteem
of your country. I have the honor to be, gentle-
men, your most obedient and most humble servant,
etc., B. Franklin.

DCCCXCIII

TO JOHN JAY ^

Passy, 13 June, 1780.

Dear Sir: — Yesterday, and not before, is come to
hand your favor of April 14th, with the packets and
despatches from Congress, which you sent me by a
French gentleman to Nantes.

^ Mr. Jay was appointed Minister Plenipotentiary to Spain on the
27th of September, 1779, and arrived at Madrid in the following April.

1780] Benjamin Franklin 251

Several of them appear to have been opened ; the
paper round the seals being smoked and burnt, as
with the flame of a candle used to soften the wax, and
the impression defaced. The curiosity of people in
this time of war is unbounded. Some of them only
want to see news ; but others want to find, through
interested views, what chance there is of a speedy
peace. Mr. Ross has undertaken to forward the let-
ters to England. I have not seen them; but he tells
me they have all been opened. I am glad, however,
to receive the despatches from Congress, as they com-
municate to me Mr. Adams' instructions, and other
particulars of which I have been long ignorant.

I am very sensible of the weight of your observa-
tion, " that a constant interchange of intelligence and
attentions between the public servants at the differ-
ent courts is necessary to procure to their constitu-
ents all the advantages capable of being derived
from their appointment." I shall endeavor to per-
form my part with you, as well to have the pleasure
of your correspondence, as from a sense of duty.
But my time is more taken up with matters extran-
eous to the functions of a minister, than you can pos-
sibly imagine. I have written often to the Congress
to establish consuls in the ports, and ease me of what
relates to maritime and mercantile affairs; but no
notice has yet been taken of my request.

A number of bills of exchange, said to be drawn by
order of Congress on Mr. Laurens, is arrived in Hol-
land. A merchant there has desired to know of me
whether, if he accepts them, I will engage to reim-
burse him. I have no orders or advice about them

252 The Works of [1780

from Congress. Do you know to what amount they
have drawn? I doubt I cannot safely meddle with
them.

Mrs. Jay does me much honor in desiring to have
one of the prints, that have been made here of her
countryman. I send what is said to be the best of
five or six engraved by different hands, from different
paintings. The verses at the bottom are truly ex-
travagant. But you must know that the desire of
pleasing, by a perpetual rise of compliments in this
polite nation, has so used up all the common ex-
pressions of approbation, that they are become flat
and insipid, and to use them almost implies censure.
Hence music, that formerly might be sufficiently
praised when it was called bonne, to go a little farther
they called it excellente, then superbe, magnifique,
exquise, celeste, all which being in their turns worn
out, there only remains divine; and, when that is
grown as insignificant as its predecessors, I think
they must return to common speech and common
sense; as, from vying with one another in fine and
costly paintings on their coaches, since I first knew
the country, not being able to go farther in that way,
they have returned lately to plain carriages, painted,
without arms or figures, in one uniform color.

The league of neutral nations to protect their com-
merce is now established. Holland, offended by
fresh insults from England, is arming vigorously.
That nation has madly brought itself into the great-
est distress, and has not a friend in the world. With
great and sincere esteem, etc.,

B. Franklin.

1780] Benjamin Franklin 253

DCCCXCIV

TO M. WHARTON

Passy, 17 Jvme, 1780.

Dear Sir: — You obliged me very much in send-
ing me Clinton's letter. I sent copies to England
and Holland, where it has been printed. Some have
doubted its being genuine. My answer is, that
whether written by him or not, it contains in my
opinion a true state of American and British affairs
in that quarter. The Protestant mob in London, be-
ginning soberly the 2d instant with the attendance on
a petition to Parliament, on a refusal to take it into
immediate consideration, proceeded to violence,
treated ill several members, burnt several ambassa-
dors' chapels, and being on the seven following days
joined by all the disorderly rogues of the two cities,
pillaged and destroyed the houses of Catholics and
favorers of Catholics, to the number of near fifty;
among them Lord Mansfield's house, with all his
furniture, pictures, books, papers, etc., and himself
almost frightened out of his wits. If they had done
no other mischief, I would have more easily excused
them, as he has been an eminent promoter of the
American war, and it is not amiss that those who have
approved the burning our poor people's houses and
towns should taste a little of the effects of fire them-
selves. But they turned all the thieves and rob-
bers out of Newgate to the number of three hundred,
and instead of replacing them with an equal num-
ber of other plunderers of the public, which they
might easily have foimd among the members of

254 The Works of [1780

Parliament, they burnt the building. It is said they
also attempted to plunder the Bank. The troops
fired on them and killed thirty-three. They were
not finally suppressed till the 9th, at night; and
then chiefly by the city associated troops. Lord
George Gordon is committed to the Tower. Dam-
age done is computed at a million sterling.

I thank you for yours of the 14th. I have let-
ters signed by the very officers who now join Capt.
Landais, complaining of his conduct to them in the
strongest terms ; and the like from him against them,
declaring that he would quit the ship rather than
serve with such a set. When he came up to Paris,
which was only to explain his conduct, he had no de-
sire, at least he expressed none to me, of returning
to the ship, but on the contrary worried me for an
order to have his things out of her, which I declined,
because I would not do an act that should look like
punishing him before he was tried by a court-martial,
that could be only had in America. The separating
him and his officers one would think should be a
pleasure to him as well as to them, especially when it
appeared his own act. His attempt, therefore, to re-
sume the command after another was appointed, and
when he had received a considerable sum, advanced
to assist him in taking passage on another ship, in
order to obtain a trial, and this by exciting a mutiny
just when the Alliance was on the point of sailing, is
not only unjustifiable but criminal. I have no doubt
but your suspicion of his adviser is well founded.^
That genius must either find or make a quarrel wher-

^ Arthur Lee.

1780] Benjamin Franklin 255

ever he is. The only excuse for him that his conduct
will admit of, is his being at times out of his senses.
This I always allow, and am persuaded that if some
of the many enemies he provokes do not kill him
sooner he will die in a madhouse. As to Capt. Lan-
dais, I have no other powers relating to the Alliance,
than what are implied in my ministerial office. He
was instructed strictly by the Admiralty in America
to obey my orders. He disobeyed them. It is not
necessary to discuss those matters here. We are
accountable at home. I am heartily sorry that you
have been so long detained. I have done every-
thing in my power to prevent it. You can have no
conception of the vexation these maritime affairs
occasion me. It is hard that I, who give others no
trouble with my quarrels, should be plagued with
all the perversities of those who think fit to wrangle
with one another. I wish you a good voyage at
last, and that I could mend your company. Adieu,
I am ever,

Yours affectionately,

B. Franklin.

DCCCXCV

TO WILLIAM CARMICHAEL ^

Passv, 17 June, 1780.

Dear Sir: — Your favors of the 2 2d past came
duly to hand. Sir John Dairy mple has been here

^ Secretary to the American Legation at Madrid, while Mr. Jay was
Minister there; and afterwards for many years Charge d' Affairs of the
United States at the court of Spain. — Editor.

256 The Works of [1780

some time, but I hear nothing of his political opera-
tions. The learned talk of the discovery he has
made in the Escurial Library, of forty epistles of
Brutus, a missing part of Tacitus, and a piece of
Seneca, that have never yet been printed, which ex-
cite much curiosity. He has not been with me, and
I am told, by one of his friends, that, though he
wished to see me, he did not think it prudent. So
I suppose I shall have no communication with him;
for I shall not seek it. As Count de Vergennes has
mentioned nothing to me of any memorial from him,
I suppose he has not presented it; perhaps discour-
aged by the reception it met with in Spain. So I
wish, for curiosity's sake, you would send me a copy
of it.

The Marquis de Lafayette arrived safely at Boston
on the 28th of April, and, it is said, gave expectations
of the coming of a squadron and troops. The vessel
that brings this, left New London the 2d of May; her
captain reports that the siege of Charleston was
raised, the troops attacked in their retreat, and Clin-
ton killed; but this wants confirmation. London
has been in the utmost confusion for seven or eight
days. The beginning of this month, a mob of fa-
natics, joined by a mob of rogues, burnt and destroyed
property to the amount, it is said, of a million ster-
ling. Chapels of foreign ambassadors, houses of
members of Parliament that had promoted the act
for favoring Catholics, and the houses of many pri-
vate persons of that religion, were pillaged and con-
sumed, or pulled down, to the number of fifty;
among the rest, Lord Mansfield's is burnt, with all

1780] Benjamin Franklin 257

his furniture, pictures, books, and papers. Thus
he, who approved the burning of American houses,
has had fire brought home to him. He himself was
horribly scared, and Governor Hutchinson, it is said,
died outright of the fright. The mob, tired with
roaring and rioting seven days and nights, were at
length suppressed, and quiet restored on the 9th,
in the evening. Next day Lord George Gordon was
committed to the tower.'

* Lord George Gordon entered Parliament in 1774 and vehemently
opposed the acts for the removal of Catholic disabilities. He took an
active part also in organizing the Protestant associations of England
and Scotland, of both which he was president. On Jtme 2d, 1780, he
headed the throng of people who marched in procession to the houses
of Parliament with the monster petition in opposition to the Catholic
disabilities acts. A riot ensued which lasted seven days, and which
resulted in the destruction of several Roman Catholic houses of worship,
the pltmder of n\mierous private residences of Catholics, the firing of
Newgate, the breaking open all the other prisons in London, and an
attack upon the Bank of England and several other public buildings.
It was finally checked by the soldiery at the expense of between four
and five hundred persons killed or wovmded. Pending the disturbance
the sessions of Parliament were partially suspended. Gibbon writing
to his mother on the loth of June, the day after order was restored,
said: "I should write with great pleasure to say that this audacious
tumult is perfectly quelled; that Lord George Gordon is sent to the
Tower, and that instead of safety or danger, we are now at liberty to
think of justice. . . Our danger is at an end, but our disgrace

will be lasting, and the month of June, 1780, will ever be marked by a
dark and diabolical fanaticism which I had supposed to be extinct, but
which actually subsists in Great Britain perhaps beyond any other
country in Europe."

There were rumors current in London that France was at the "bot-
tom of it." Cowper in one of his letters asks: "Is it true that this
detestable plot was an egg laid in France and hatched in London under
the influence of French corruption?" Colonel Scott, then an Amer-
ican prisoner, told Lord Lincoln that the Americans were sick of the
war and had only been buoyed up by Spanish gold and French pro-
mises that London would be burned. When the rioters were tried,

however, nothing came out to confirm the suspicion of any plot or even
VOL. vin. — 17.

258 The Works of [1780

Enclosed I send you the little piece you desire. »
To understand it rightly you should be acquainted
with some few circumstances. The person to whom
it was addressed is Madame Brillon, a lady of most
respectable character and pleasing conversation ; mis-
tress of an amiable family in this neighborhood, with
which I spend an evening twice in every week. She
has, among other elegant accomplishments, that of
an excellent musician ; and, with her daughters, who
sing prettily, and some friends who play, she kindly
entertains me and my grandson with little concerts,
a cup of tea, and a game of chess. I call this my
Opera, for I rarely go to the Opera at Paris.

The Moulin Joli is a little island in the Seine about
two leagues hence, part of the coim try-seat of another
friend,'' where we visit every summer, and spend a
day in the pleasing society of the ingenious, learned,
and ver}^ polite persons who inhabit it. At the time
when the letter was written, all conversations at Paris
were filled with disputes about the music of Gluck
and Picini, a German and an Italian musician, who
divided the town into violent parties. A friend of
this lady having obtained a copy of it, under a
promise not to give another, did not observe that
promise; so that many have been taken, and it is
become as public as such a thing can well be that is
not printed; but I could not dream of its being
heard of at Madrid! The thought was partly taken

plan having been formed. The king, however, seems to have enter-
tained these suspicions. "If possible," he wrote to Lord North, "we
mtist get to the bottom of it, and examples must be made. " — Editor.

I The "Ephemera." See Vol. VII., p. 363.

* Monsieur Watelet.

1780] Benjamin Franklin 259

from a little piece of some unknown writer, which I
met with fifty years since in a newspaper, and which
the sight of the "Ephemera" brought to my recol-
lection. Adieu, my dear friend, and believe me ever
yours most affectionately,

B. Franklin.

DCCCXCVI

TO COMMODORE JONES

Passy, 17 Jxrne, 1780.

Sir: — Having been informed by several gentlemen
from L 'Orient, that it is there generally understood
the mutiny on board your ship has been advised or
promoted by the Honorable Arthur Lee, Esq., whom
I had ordered you to receive as a passenger, I hereby
withdraw that order, so far as to leave the execution
of it to your discretion; that if from the circum-
stances which have come to your knowledge it should
appear to you that the peace and good government
of the ship during the voyage may be endangered
by his presence, you may decline taking that gen-
tleman, which I apprehend need not obstruct his re-
turn to America, as there are several ships going
under your convoy, and no doubt any of their pas-
sengers may be prevailed with to change places.
But if you judge those suspicions groundless, you
will comply with the order aforesaid. I have the
honor to be, sir, your most obedient and most humble
servant, etc., B. Franklin.

26o The Works of [1780

DCCCXCVII

TO JOHN FOTHERGILL

Passy, 19 Jtine, 1780.

My dear old friend, Dr. Fothergill, may assure
Lady H." of my respects, and of any service in my
power to render her, or her affairs in America. I
believe matters in Georgia cannot much longer con-
tinue in their present situation, but will return to
that state in which they were, when her property,
and that of our common friend, G. W.,"* received the
protection she acknowledges.

I rejoiced most sincerely to hear of your recovery
from the dangerous illness by which I lost my very
valuable friend Peter Collinson. As I am sometimes
apprehensive of the same disorder, I wish to know
the means that were used and succeeded in
your case; and shall be exceedingly obliged to
you for communicating them when you can do it
conveniently.

Be pleased to remember me respectfully to your
good sister, and to our worthy friend, David Barclay^
who I make no doubt laments with you and me, that
the true pains we took together to prevent all this
horrible mischief proved ineffectual.^ I am ever
yours most affectionately, B. Franklin.

* Probably Lady Huntington, who contributed towards the estab-
lishment of Whitefield's Orphan House in Georgia. See a further ac-
count of her benevolent plans in Washington's Writings, Vol. IX.,
pp. 92, 96.

2 George Whitefield.

3 Alluding to the negotiations for bringing about a reconciliation be-
tween Great Britain and the colonies, which took place just before Dr.
Franklin left England in the spring of 1775, and in which Dr. Fothergill,
David Barclay, and Lord Howe were concerned. See Vol. VL, p. 435.

1780J Benjamin Franklin 261

DCCCXCVIII

TO CHARLES W. F. DUMAS

Passy, 22 June, 1780.

Dear Sir: — Enclosed you have a letter for the
gentleman you recommend to me. He seems to be
a man of abilities. The words, " before I leave Eu-
rope,'' had no relation to my particular immediate
intention, but to the general one I flatter myself with,
of being able to return and spend there the small re-
mains of life that are left me.

I have written distinctly to Messrs. de Neufville

concerning those bills. I hear that was at New-

bem the 12th of April, and soon to sail from thence,
or from Virginia for France. Probably he might not
sail in some weeks after, as vessels are often longer
in fitting out than was expected. If it is the Fier
Rodertgue, a fifty-gun ship, that he comes in, I have
just heard that she would not sail till the middle of
May. Herewith you have the judgment relating to
the Flora, which I thought had been sent before.
The mischiefs done by the mob in London are aston-
ishing. They were, I heard, within an ace of de-
stroying the Bank, with all the books relating to the
funds, which would have created infinite confusion.

I am grieved at the loss of Charleston. Let me
hope soon to hear better news from the operations of
the French and Spanish forces gone to America.

B. Franklin.

P. S. — As the English do not allow that we can
make legal prizes, they certainly cannot detain the

262 The Works of [1780

Dutch ship, the Berkenloos, on pretence that it was
become American property before they took it. For
the rest, there is no doubt but the Congress will do
what shall appear to be just, on a proper representa-
tion of facts laid before them, which the owners
should appoint some persons in America to do.
Those gentlemen may depend on my rendering them
every service in my power.

DCCCXCIX

TO M. VAN DER OUDER MEULEN ^

Passy, 22 June, 1780.

Sir: — I received the letter you did me the honor
of writing to me the 15th instant, containing the
sketch of a plan for commerce with America, by
establishing there and in Europe companies with
privileges for that purpose, upon which you desire
my sentiments.

I cannot from so small a sketch understand fully
the extent of your plan; but I will mention what
occurs to me in perusing it. There is no doubt but
that merchants in Europe may, if they think fit, form
themselves into companies for carrying on the com-
merce of America with such privileges as they can
obtain from their sovereigns; but the general prin-
ciple in America being for a free trade with all the
world, and to leave every one of their merchants at
liberty to prosecute it as he may judge most for his

' Endorsed as follows: "Papers and letters relating to a company
proposed to be formed in Europe for the American trade."

1780] Benjamin Franklin 263

advantage, I do not think such companies can be
estabhshed there with any exclusive rights or privi-
leges. And this open commerce being free to all
nations, and more profitable to Europe than to Amer-
ica, which can very well subsist and flourish without
a commerce with Europe, a commerce that chiefly
imports superfluities and luxuries, it concerns those
nations principally to protect that commerce, in
which protection there is no doubt but France will
bear her part. But that she should take the whole
upon her, is too much to be asked or expected by
America. We have, besides, a common opinion that
business is best managed and to most advantage by
those who are immediately interested in the profits of
it, and that trading companies are generally more
profitable to the servants of the company than to the
proprietors of the stock, or to the public. I have the
honor to be, sir, your most obedient and most humble
servant, B. Franklin.

DCCCC

TO M. DE RAYNEVAL

24 June, 1780.

Sir: — The person who calls himself Dumont was
with me yesterday evening, bringing notes to me
from M. de Vergennes and M. le Due de Vauguyon.
He said his business was to soHcit a supply of 4,000
stand of arms, to be landed on the west of England
for the use of the petitioners, who were become
sensible that petitioning signified nothing, and that

264 The Works of [1780

without using force it was impossible to prevent the
total loss of liberty and the establishment of arbi-
trary government in England; that the appearance
of 4,000 men in arms would be sufficient to draw to-
gether a great body from different parts, the whole
nation being dissatisfied with the present govern-
ment; that even the army was disaffected, and the
navy so much so that Admiral Geary had been or-
dered to put to sea with the fleet, to prevent a revolt
which was apprehended among the seamen, I men-
tioned the difficulty of landing such a quantity of
arms in England without being observed, and troops
sent to seize them or defeat the people that should
undertake to use them before they could be disci-
plined, and that it was not probable such an aid
could be obtained without its being well known whose
hands the arms were to be put into, what persons
of weight were likely to be concerned, and other cir-
cumstances that might satisfy there was a chance of
success. He said all relating to the reception and
use of the arms was already arranged; and persons
of note concerned in the affair would discover them-
selves as soon as they could be assured of obtaining
the supply ; but otherwise it was dangerous and could
not be expected. He desired me to forward and
favor the business if my opinion should be asked, but
made no particular offers or overtures to me. I do
not know him. He asked my opinion of the design.
I told him I could form none without knowing more
particulars of it than he had communicated, and also
the persons who were to conduct it. He said he was
to see M. de Vergennes, and that he would call again

1780] Benjamin Franklin 265

upon me after that interview. If he communicates
any thing further worth notice, I shall immediately
acquaint M. de Vergennes with it, to whom be pleased
to present my sincere respects. I have the honor
to be, with perfect esteem, sir, etc.,

B. Franklin.

DCCCCI

TO MR. DIGGES

Passy, 25 June, 1780.

Dear Sir: — I received yours enclosing a very
obliging letter from Mr. President Banks. The Con-
gress cannot be said to have ordered the instructions
I gave, though they would no doubt have done it, if
such a thing had been mentioned to them. It is
therefore not proper to use any further endeavors
to procure a medal for them. I do not indeed per-
ceive that one is intended for me, as you imagined,
and though it would certainly give me pleasure if
voluntarily ordered, I would not have it obtained
by solicitation.

I thank Mr. Hardy much for his kind offer of more
Jamaica rum. But as I have still a great deal left of
what he was before so obliging as to send me, a fresh
quantity is unnecessary. I wish you would hint to
me how I could make him some acceptable return.

The portrait you mention is not yet come to hand,
nor have I heard any thing of it. I am anxious to
see it, having no hope of living to see again the much
loved and respected original.

266 The Works of [1780

I have at the request of friends sat so much and so
often to painters and statuaries, that I am perfectly
sick of it. I know of nothing so tedious as sitting
hours in one fixed posture. I would nevertheless do
it once more to oblige you if it was necessary, but
there are already so many good likenesses of the face,
that if the best of them is copied it will probably be
better than a new one, and the body is only that of a
lusty man which need not be drawn from the life ; any
artist can add such a body to the face. Or it may be
taken from Chamberlain's print. I hope therefore
you will excuse me. The face Miss Georgiana has is
thought here to be the most perfect. Ornaments and
emblems are best left to the fancy of the painter.

As the board after receiving the 500 English pris-
oners we carried into Holland, in exchange for
Frenchmen, refused to take other Frenchmen —
which the government had promised me — in ex-
change for Americans, I gave over all thoughts or
expectations of continuing the cartel. I have, how-
ever, written to Mr. Hodgson about it by the oppor-
tunity. We are much obliged to that good man for
the pains he has taken in that affair. Finding that
the prisoners are like to be longer detained, I desire
they may be paid from me the little comfort I can
afford them of six-pence per week each. I will an-
swer your drafts for the sums necessary.

I received Mr. Hartley's excellent letters, printed
and manuscript, which I have sent to America, where
he will ever be revered for his incessant endeavors to
procure peace, which endeavors, however, I imagine
he will find from the late success of the king's troops

1780] Benjamin Franklin 267

at Charleston less attended to than they have been,
and that desirable event more remote than expected.

I send you herewith the passport for Mr. Scott. I
have, you see, great faith in your recommendation.

With great regard and esteem, I am, dear sir, your
most obedient, humble servant,

Francis Lyn.

DCCCCII

TO MR. WILLIAMS

Passy, 27 Jiuie, 1780.

Dear Jona.: — To get rid of all further projects
and propositions which I never understand relating
to the shipping of the goods, I entrusted you with
that business and empowered you to freight a ship or
ships. But I have not succeeded, for in yours of the
23d you send me new schemes. No other man-of-
war to go under the command of Commodore Jones
can at present be obtained. Assist him in getting
out with the Ariel; after that you and M. de Chau-
mont may unite in finding some means of sending the
rest of the goods. You and he can agree and assist
each other; but there never can be any union of
counsels or endeavors between the Commodore and
him. I was told that if we would obtain the Ariel,
she would do our business ; I joined in the apphca-
tion and we obtained her. Now she is too little and
another is wanted. I will absolutely have nothing
to do with any new squadron project. I have been
too long in hot water, plagued almost to death with

268 The Works of [1780

the passions, vagaries and ill humors and madnesses
of other people. I must have a little repose. This
to yourself, and believe me ever,

Your affectionate uncle,

B. Franklin.

P. S. — If the Alliance is not totally gone, you have
enclosed an order which I promised the Prince de
Montbarey to send down for her reception of more
arms, etc., though I fear she will be carried into Eng-
land either by her crew or by her enemy.

DCCCCIII

TO M. DE SARTINE ^

Passy, 27 June, 1780.

Sir : — I am very thankful to his Majesty, in behalf
of the suffering owners of the brigantine Fair Play,
for his goodness in ordering to be paid to them fifteen
thousand livres out of your treasury. But as that
sum is conceived by your Excellency to be a favorable
allowance, in consideration that the misfortune hap-
pened by the fault of Captain Giddins, and the own-
ers apprehend there was no fault on his part (being
so informed by deposition upon oath), and none was
mentioned or supposed in the governor of Guada-
loupe's first letter to your Excellency on the subject,
I fear they will think the sum very small as an indem-
nification for the loss of their vessel, valued at six
thousand pounds sterling.

I Minister of the Marine.

1780] Benjamin Franklin 269

I therefore request your Excellency would be
pleased to examine with some attention the said
depositions, and the valuation (of which I enclose
the duplicates) ; and if, on the whole, you should
judge the matter improper to be offered at present
for his Majesty's reconsideration, you would at least
favor me with the informations that have been sent
to your Excellency from Guadaloupe, of the blam-
able conduct of the captain, as by communicating
those informations to the owners, I may more easily
satisfy them of the favorableness of the sum his
Majesty has been pleased to grant them.

Your Excellency will perceive by their letter,
which I send herewith, that they desire Mr. Jonathan
Williams of Nantes might receive for them the sum
that should be granted. I am therefore further to
request, that your Excellency would be pleased to
give orders to your treasurer to accept and pay his
drafts for the said fifteen thousand livres. I am,
with great respect, sir, etc.,

B. Franklin.

DCCCCIV

FROM COUNT DE VERGENNES

Versailles, 30 June, 1780.

Sir: — I did not until this day receive the letter,
which you did me the honor to write to me on the
24th of this month.

You request, in consequence of an application
made to you by Mr. Adams, that the orders given to

2 70 The Works of [1780

the Chevalier de la Luzerne relative to a resolution of
Congress of the i8th of March last should be revoked,
or at least suspended, as that plenipotentiary is able
to prove that those orders are founded on false
reports.

Mr. Adams, on the 2 2d, sent me a long disserta-
tion on the subject in question ; but it contains only
abstract reasonings, hypotheses, and calculations,
which have no real foundation, or which at least do
not apply to the subjects of the king, and, in fine,
principles, than which nothing can be less analogous
to the alliance subsisting between his Majesty and
the United States.

By this, sir, you can judge that the pretended
proofs mentioned by Mr. Adams are not of a nature
to induce us to change our opinion, and consequently
cannot effect a revocation or suspension of the or-
ders given to the Chevalier de la Luzerne. The
king is so firmly persuaded, sir, that your private
opinion respecting the effects of that resolution of
Congress, as far as it concerns strangers, and es-
pecially Frenchmen, differs from that of Mr. Adams,
that he is not apprehensive of laying you under any
embarrassment by requesting you to support the
representations which his minister is ordered to
make to Congress. And that you may be able to
do this with a complete knowledge of the case, his
Majesty has commanded me to send you a copy of
my letter to Mr. Adams, the observations of that
plenipotentiary, and my answer to him.^

The king expects that you will lay the whole be-

^ See Diplomatic Correspondence, Vol. V., pp. 208, 213, 232.

1780] Benjamin Franklin 271

fore Congress; and his Majesty flatters himself that
that assembly, inspired with principles different
from those which Mr. Adams has discovered, will
convince his Majesty that they know how to prize
those marks of favor which the king has constantly
shown to the United States.

However, sir, the king does not undertake to point
out to Congress the means which may be employed
to indemnify the French who are holders of the paper-
money. His Majesty, with respect to that, relies
entirely on the justice and wisdom of that assembly.
I have the honor to be, etc.,

De Vergennes.

DCCCCV

TO PAUL JONES

Passy, 5 July, 1780.

Dear Sir: — I received yours of June 21st, with the
papers it enclosed, from M. Genet, who had kept
them a day or two to translate them for the minister.
I approve much of your humanity and prudence, but
am sorry that in the letter to Dr. Bancroft you com-
plain of your friends, who are in no fault. They
spare you, and have not even hinted that if you had
stayed on board where your duty lay, instead of com-
mg to Paris, you would not have lost your ship. Now
you blame them as having deserted you in recover-
ing her. Though relinquishing to prevent mischief
w^as a voluntary act of your own, for which you have
credit, hereafter, if you should observe, on occasion.

2 72 The Works of [1780

to give your officers and friends a little more praise
than is their due, and confess more fault than you
can justly be charged with, you will only become the
sooner for it, a great captain. Criticising and cen-
suring almost every one you have to do with, will
diminish friends, increase enemies, and thereby hurt
your affairs.

I continue as ever, dear sir, etc.,

B. Franklin.

DCCCCVI

TO COUNT DE VERGENNES

Passy, 10 Jtily, 1780
Sir : — I received the letter yotir Excellency did me
the honor of writing to me, dated June 30th, together
with the papers accompanying it, containing the cor-
respondence of Mr. Adams. I have taken some pains
to understand the subject, and obtain information of
facts from persons recently arrived, having received
no letters myself that explain it. I cannot say that
I yet perfectly understand it ; but in this I am clear,
that if the operation directed by Congress in their
resolution of March the i8th occasions, from the
necessity of the case, some inequality of justice, that
inconvenience ought to fall wholly on the inhabi-
tants of the States, who reap with it the advantages
obtained by the measure ; and that the greatest care
should be taken that foreign merchants, particularly
the French, who are our creditors, do not suffer by
it. This I am so confident the Congress will do, that

1780] Benjamin Franklin 273

I do not think any representations of mine necessary
to persuade them to it.

I shall not fail, however, to lay the whole before
them; and I beg that the king may be assured that
their sentiments, and those of the Americans in gen-
eral, with regard to the alliance, as far as I have been
able to learn them, not only from private letters, but
from authentic public facts, differ widely from those
that seem to be expressed by Mr. Adams in his letter
to your Excellency, and are filled with the strongest
impressions of the friendship of France, of the gen-
erous manner in which his Majesty was pleased to
enter into an equal treaty with us, and of the great
obligations our country is under for the important
aids he has since afforded us. I have the honor to
be, etc., B. Franklin.

DCCCCVII

TO ALEXANDER SMALL '

Passy, 22 July, 1780.

You see, my dear sir, that I was not afraid my
masters would take it amiss, if I ran to see an old
friend, though in the service of their enemy. They
are reasonable enough to allow, that differing politics
should not prevent the intercommunication of phi-
losophers, who study and converse for the benefit of
mankind. But you have doubts about coming to

^ A surgeon of eminence in the British army, then passing through
Paris; brother to Colonel Small, who particularly distinguished him-
self by his humanity at the battle of Btmker's Hill, near Boston. — W.
T. F.

VOL. VIII. 18.

2 74 The Works of [1780

dine with me. I suppose you will not venture it;
your refusal will not indeed do so much honor to the
generosity and good nature of your government, as
to your sagacity. You know your people, and I do
not expect you. I think, too, that in friendship I
ought not to make you more visits, as I intended;
but I send my grandson to pay his duty to his
physician.

You inquired about my gout, and I forgot to ac-
quaint you that I had treated it a little cavalierly in
its two last accesses. Finding one night that my
foot gave me more pain after it was covered warm
in bed, I put it out of bed naked ; and, perceiving it
easier, I let it remain longer than I at first designed,
and at length fell asleep, leaving it there till morning.
The pain did not return, and I grew well. Next
winter, having a second attack, I repeated the ex-
periment ; not with such immediate success in dis-
missing the gout, but constantly with the effect of
rendering it less painful, so that it permitted me to
sleep every night. I should mention that it was
my son who gave me the first intimation of this prac-
tice. He being in the old opinion, that the gout was
to be drawn out by transpiration ; and having heard
me say, that perspiration was carried on more copi-
ously when the body was naked than when clothed,
he put his foot out of bed to increase that discharge,
and found ease by it, which he thought a confirma-
tion of the doctrine. But this method requires to
be confirmed by more experiments, before one can
conscientiously recommend it. I give it you, how-
ever, in exchange for your receipt of tartar emetic;

lySo] Benjamin Franklin 275

because the commerce of philosophy as well as other
commerce, is best promoted by taking care to make
returns. I am ever yours most affectionately,

B. Franklin.

DCCCCVIII

TO CHARLES W. F. DUMAS

Passy, 26 July, 1780.

Dear Sir: — I wrote to Messrs. de Neufville by the
last post, in answer to theirs of the 14th. I hope
they received my letter. It signified, that I could
accept the bills drawn on Mr. Laurens. I find by a
vote of Congress on the 4th March, that they then
stopped drawing, and I am informed no more bills
have been issued since. I could not relish those gen-
tlemen's proposal of mortgaging all our estates, for
the little money Holland is likely to lend us. But
I am obliged to them for their zeal in our cause.

I received, and thank you for, the protest relating
to the election of the coadjutor. You seem to be too
much affected with the taking of Charleston. It is
so far a damage to us, as it will enable the enemy to
exchange a great part of the prisoners we had in
our hands; otherwise their affairs will not be much
advanced by it. They have successively been in
possession of the capitals of five provinces, viz., Mass-
achusetts Bay, Rhode Island, Pennsylvania, New
York, and Georgia ; but were not therefore in posses-
sion of the provinces themselves. New York and
Georgia still continue their operations as free States ;

2/6 The Works of [1780

and so I suppose will South Carolina. The cannon
will be recovered with the place ; if not, our furnaces
are constantly at work in making more. The de-
stroying of our ships by the English is only like shav-
ing our beards, which will grow again. Their loss
of provinces is like the loss of a limb, which can never
again be united to their body. I was sorry to hear
of your indisposition. Take care of yoiirself . Honey
is a good thing for obstructions in the reins. I hope
your health is by this time re-established.

I am less committed than you imagine in the affair
between Jones and Landais. The latter was not dis-
possessed by me of his command, but quitted it. He
afterwards took it into his head to resume it, which
the former's too long stay at Paris gave him an op-
portunity of effecting. Captain Jones is going in the
Ariel frigate to America, where they may settle their
affairs as they can.

The captain commandant of Dunkirk, who occa-
sioned the loss of our despatches, is himself taken by
the English. I have no doubt of the truth of what
Mr. White told you, about the facility with which
the tax was collected.

The same Baron de Wulffen has not pleased me,
having left little debts behind him unpaid, though I
furnished him with twenty guineas. As he had been
with his brother at Venloo, before he saw you, where
he might get money, I wonder at his borrowing of
you.

This will be delivered to you by his Excellency,
John Adams, whom I earnestly recommend to your
best civilities. He has never been in Holland, and

i78o] Benjamin Franklin 277

your counsels will be of use to him. My best wishes
attend you, being ever, etc., B. Franklin.

DCCCCIX

TO DE VERGENNES

Passy, 3 August, 1780.

Sir: — It was indeed with very great pleasure that
I received the letter your Excellency did me the
honor of writing me, communicating that of the
President of Congress, and the resolutions of that
body relative to the succors then expected; for the
sentiments therein expressed are so different from the
language held by Mr. Adams in his late letters to your
Excellency as to make it clear that it was from his
particular indiscretion alone, and not from any in-
structions received by him, that has given such just
cause of displeasure, and that it is impossible that his
conduct therein should be approved by his constitu-
ents. I am glad he has not admitted me to any par-
ticipation of those writings, and that he has taken
the resolution he expresses, of not communicating
with me, or making use of my intervention in his
future correspondence; a resolution that I believe he
will keep, as he has never yet commimicated to me
more of his business in Europe than I have seen in
the newspapers. I live upon terms of civility with
him, not of intimacy. I shall as you desire lay be-
fore Congress the whole correspondence which you
have sent me for that purpose. With the greatest
and most sincere respect, I am, sir, yours, etc., etc.,

B. Franklin.

278 The Works of [1780

DCCCCX

TO THE PRESIDENT OF CONGRESS

Passy, 9 August, 1780.

Sir: — With this your Excellency will receive a
copy of my last, dated May 3 ist, the original of which,
with copies of preceding letters, went by the Alliance,
Captain Landais, who sailed the beginning of last
month, and who I wish may arrive safe in America,
being apprehensive that by her long delay in port,
from the mutiny of the people, who after she was
ready to sail refused to weigh anchor till their wages
were paid, she may fall in the way of the English
fleet now out ; or that her crew, who have ever been
infected with disorder and mutiny, may carry her
into England. She had, on her first coming out, a
conspiracy for that purpose ; besides which her offi-
cers and captain quarrelled with each other, the
captain with Commodore Jones, and there have been
so many broils among them, that it was impossible
to get the business forward while she stayed, and she
is at length gone, without taking the quantity of
stores she was capable of taking, and was ordered to
take.

I suppose the conduct of that captain will be in-
quired into by a court-martial. Captain Jones goes
home in the Artel, a ship we have borrowed of gov-
ernment here, and carries one hundred and forty-six
chests of arms, and four hundred barrels of powder.
To take the rest of the stores, I have been obliged
to freight a ship, which, being well armed and well
manned, will, I hope, get in safe. The clothes for

1780] Benjamin Franklin 279

ten thousand men are, I think, all made up; there
are also arms for fifteen thousand, new and good,
with two thousand barrels of powder. Besides this,
there is a great quantity of cloth I have bought, of
which you will have the invoices sent by Mr. Wil-
liams; another large quantity purchased by Mr.
Ross; all going in the same ship. ^

* Captain Landais had been censured and deprived of his command,
in consequence of his misconduct while on the cruise with Jones at the
time of the captiire of the Serapis. When Jones was about to depart
in the Alliance for America, in June, 1780, Landais went to L'Orient
without orders, raised a mutiny among the officers and sailors, in con-
sequence of their not having been paid their prize-money, and took
command of the ship while Jones was absent. An order was obtained
from the French government to arrest Landais, but he sailed before
the order arrived. Arthur Lee was a passenger in the Alliance, and
advised Landais to resist the authority of Jones, and take command
of the vessel. The passengers had reason to regret this rash measiye,
however, before they reached Boston, to which port they were bound.
Landais behaved in so strange a manner, that it was fotmd necessary
to deprive him of his command, and to put the vessel under the charge
of the first lieutenant. In a letter to Robert Morris, dated at L'Orient,
June 27th, Jones speaks of this affair as follows:

"What gives me the greatest pain is, that, after I had obtained from
the government, the means of transporting to America, tmder a good
protection, the arms and clothing I had already mentioned, Mr. Lee
should have found means to defeat my intentions. I thank God I
am of no party, and have no brothers or relations to serve; but I am
convinced that Mr. Lee has acted in this matter merely because I
would not become the enemy of the venerable, the wise, and the good
Franklin, whose heart, as well as head, does and will always do honor
to human nature. I know the great and good in this kingdom better,
perhaps, than any other American, who has appeared in Europe since
the treaty of alliance; and, if my testimony could add any thing to
Franklin's reputation, I could witness the universal veneration and
esteem with which his name inspires all ranks, not only at Versailles,
and all over this kingdom, but also in Spain and Holland. And I can
add, from the testimony of the first characters of other nations, that
with them envy itself is dumb when the name of Franklin is but
mentioned." — See Life of Paul Jones, New York ed., 1833, pp. 261-
279.

28o The Works of [1780

The little authority we have here to govern our
armed ships, and the inconvenience of distance from
the ports, occasion abundance of irregularities in the
conduct of both men and officers. I hope, therefore,
that no more of those vessels will be sent hither, till
our code of laws is perfected respecting ships abroad,
and proper persons appointed to manage such affairs
in the seaports. They give me infinite trouble; and,
though I endeavor to act for the best, it is without
satisfaction to myself, being unacquainted with that
kind of business. I have often mentioned the ap-
pointment of a consul or consuls. The Congress
have, perhaps, not yet had time to consider that
matter.

Having already sent you, by different conveyances,
copies of my proceedings with the court of Denmark,
relative to the three prizes delivered up to the Eng-
lish, and requested the instructions of Congress, I
hope soon to receive them. I mentioned a letter
from the Congress to that court, as what I thought
might have a good effect. I have since had more
reasons to be of that opinion.

The unexpected delay of Mr. Deane's arrival has
retarded the settlement of the joint accotints of the
Commission, he having had the chief management of
the commercial part, and being therefore best able to
explain difficulties. I have just now the pleasure to
hear that the Fier Roderigue, with the convoy from
Virginia, arrived at Bordeaux, all safe except one
tobacco ship, that foundered at sea, the men saved;
and I have a letter from Mr. Deane that he is at Ro-
chelle, proposes to stop a few days at Nantes, and

1780] Benjamin Franklin 281

then proceed to Paris, when I shall endeavor to see
that business completed with all possible expedition.
Mr. Adams has given offence to the court here, by
some sentiments and expressions contained in several
of his letters written to the Count de Vergennes. I
mention this with reluctance, though perhaps it
woiild have been my duty to acquaint you with such
a circumstance, even were it not required of me by
the minister himself. He has sent me copies of the
correspondence, desiring I would communicate them
to Congress; and I send them herewith.^ Mr.
Adams did not show me his letters before he sent
them. I have, in a former letter to Mr. Lovell, men-
tioned some of the inconveniences that attend the
having more than one minister at the same court;
one of which inconveniences is, that they do not al-
ways hold the same language, and that the impres-
sions made by one, and intended for the service of
his constituents, may be effaced by the discourse of
the other. It is true that Mr. Adams' proper busi-
ness is elsewhere; but the time not being come for
that business, and having nothing else wherewith to
employ himself, he seems to have endeavored to
supply what he may suppose my negotiations de-
fective in. He thinks, as he tells me himself, that
America has been too free in expressions of gratitude
to France ; for that she is more obliged to us than we
to her; and that we should show spirit in our appli-
cations. I apprehend that he mistakes his ground,
and that this court is to be treated with decency and

^ These letters will be found in the fifth volume of the Diplomatic
Correspondence.

282 The Works of [1780

delicacy. The king, a young and virtuous prince,
has, I am persuaded, a pleasure in reflecting on the
generous benevolence of the action in assisting an
oppressed people, and proposes it as a part of the
glory of his reign. I think it right to increase this
pleasure by our thankful acknowledgments, and that
such an expression of gratitude is not only our duty,
but oiu: interest. A different conduct seems to me
what is not only improper and unbecoming, but
what may be hurtful to us. Mr. Adams, on the other
hand, who, at the same time, means our welfare and
interest as much as I, or any man, can do, seems to
think a little apparent stoutness, and a greater air
of independence and boldness in our demands, will
procure us more ample assistance. It is for Con-
gress to judge and regulate their affairs accordingly.
M. de Vergennes, who appears much offended, told
me, yesterday, that he would enter into no further
discussions with Mr. Adams, nor answer any more of
his letters. He has gone to Holland to try, as he
told me, whether something might not be done to
render us less dependent on France. He says the
ideas of this court and those of the people of Amer-
ica are so totally different, that it is impossible for
any minister to please both. He ought to know
America better than I do, having been there lately,
and he may choose to do what he thinks will best
please the people of America. But when I consider
the expressions of Congress in many of their public
acts, and particularly in their letter to the Chevalier
de la Luzerne, of the 24th of May last, I cannot but
imasfine that he mistakes the sentiments of a few for

lySo] Benjamin Franklin 283

the general opinion. It is my intention, while I
stay here, to procure what advantages I can for our
country, by endeavoring to please this court; and
I wish I could prevent any thing being said by any
of ovir countrymen here that may have a contrary
effect, and increase an opinion lately showing it-
self in Paris, that we seek a difference, and with a
view of reconciling ourselves to England. Some of
them have of late been very indiscreet in their con-
versations.

I have received, eight months after their date, the
instructions of Congress relating to a new article for
guaranteeing the fisheries. The expected negotia-
tions for a peace appearing of late more remote, and
being too much occupied with other affairs, I have
not hitherto proposed that article. But I purpose
doing it next week. It appears so reasonable and
equitable, that I do not foresee any difficulty. In
my next, I shall give you an accoimt of what passes
on the occasion.

The silver medal ordered by the Chevalier de
Fleury, has been delivered to his order here, he being
gone to America. The others, for Brigadier-General
Wayne and Colonel Stewart, I shall send by the next
good opportunity.

The two thousand pounds I furnished to Messrs.
Adams and Jay, agreeably to an order of Congress,
for themselves and secretaries, being nearly ex-
pended and no supplies to them arriving, I have
thought it my duty to furnish them with further
sums, hoping the supplies promised will soon arrive
to reimburse me, and enable me to pay the bills

284 The Works of [1780

drawn on Mr. Laurens in Holland, which I have en-
gaged for, to save the public credit, the holders of
those bills threatening otherwise to protest them.
Messrs. de Neufville of Amsterdam had accepted
some of them. I have promised those gentlemen
to provide for the payment before they become due,
and to accept such others as shall be presented to
me. I hear, and hope it is true, that the drawing
of such bills is stopped, and that their number and
value is not very great.

The bills drawn in favor of M. de Beaumarchais
for the interest of his debt are paid.

The German prince, who gave me a proposal some
months since for furnishing troops to the Congress,
has lately desired an answer. I gave no expectation
that it was likely you would agree to such a proposal ;
but, being pressed to send it to you, it went with
some of my former letters.

M. Fouquet, who was employed by Congress to in-
struct people in making gunpowder, is arrived here,
after a long passage ; he has requested me to trans-
mit a memorial to Congress, which I do, enclosed.

The great public event in Europe of this year is
the proposal by Russia, of an armed neutrality for
protecting the liberty of commerce. The proposi-
tion is accepted now by most of the maritime powers.
As it is likely to become the law of nations, that free
ships should make free goods, I wish the Congress to
consider whether it may not be proper to give orders
to their cruisers not to molest foreign ships, but con-
form to the spirit of that treaty of neutrality.

The English have been much elated with their sue-

1780] Benjamin Franklin 285

cess at Charleston. The late news of the junction of
the French and Spanish fleets has a little abated their
spirits; and I hope that junction, and the arrival of
the French troops and ships in North America, will
soon produce news that may afford us also in our
turn some satisfaction.

Application has been made to me here, requesting
that I would solicit Congress to permit the exchange
of William John Mawhood, a lieutenant in the Seven-
teenth Regiment, taken prisoner at Stony Point, July
15, 1779, and confined near Philadelphia; or, if the
exchange cannot conveniently be made, that he may
be permitted to return to England on his parole.
By doing this at my request, the Congress will enable
me to oblige several friends of ours, who are persons
of merit and distinction in this country.

Be pleased, sir, to present my duty to Congress,
and believe me to be, with great respect, etc.,

B. Franklin.

P. S. — A similar application has been made to me
in favor of Richard Croft, lieutenant in the Twentieth
Regiment, a prisoner at Charlottesville. I shall be
much obliged by any kindness shown to that young
gentleman, and so will some friends of ours in Eng-
land, who respect his father. B. F.

286 The Works of [1780

DCCCCXI

TO JAMES LOVELL

Passy, 10 August, 1780.

Sir: — I received on the 12th of June, 1780, copies
of your several favors of April the 29th, 1779, June
the 13th, 1779, July the 9th and i6th, August and
September the 1 6th, 1779. You will see by this what
delays our correspondence sometimes meets with. I
have lately received two of fresher date, viz. Febru-
ary the 24th, and May the 4th. I thank you much
for the newspapers and journals you have from time
to time sent me; I endeavor to make full returns in
the same way. I could furnish a multitude of de-
spatches with confidential informations taken out of
the papers I send you, if I chose to deal in that kind
of manufacture; I know the whole art of it, for I
have had several volunteer correspondents in Eng-
land, who have in their letters for years together com-
municated to me secrets of state, extracted from the
newspapers, which sometimes came to hand in those
papers by the same post, and sometimes by the post
before. You and I send the papers themselves.
Our letters may appear the leaner, but what fat they
have is their own.

I wrote to you the 17th of October, and the i6th
of March, and have sent duplicates, some of which I
hope got to hand. You mention receiving one of
September the 30th, and one of December 30th, but
not that of October the 17th. The cipher you have
communicated, either from some defect of your ex-
planation, or in my comprehension, is not yet of use

1780] Benjamin Franklin 287

to me ; for I cannot understand by it the little speci-
men you have written in it. If you have that of Mr.
Dumas, which I left with Mr. Morris, we may corre-
spond by it when a few sentences are required only to
be written in cipher, but it is too tedious for a whole
letter.

I send herewith copies of the instruments annul-
ling the eleventh and twelfth articles of the treaty.'
The treaty printed here by the court omitted them,
and numbered the subsequent articles accordingly.

I write fully to the President. The frequent hin-
drances the Committee of Correspondence meet with
in writing as a committee, which appear from the ex-
cuses in your particular letters, and the many parts
of my letters that have long been unanswered, in-
cline me to think that your foreign correspondence
would be best managed by one secretary, who could
write when he had an opportunity, without waiting
for the concurrence or opinions of his brethren, who
cannot always be got conveniently together. My
chief letters will, therefore, for the future, be ad-
dressed to the President, till further orders.

I send you enclosed some more of Mr. Hartley's
letters. He continues passionately to desire peace
with America, but wishes we could be separated
from France. With great esteem, etc.,

B. Franklin.

^ See Diplomatic Correspondence Vol. L, p. 432.

288 The Works of [1780

DCCCCXII

TO M. SCHWEIGHAUSER

Passy, 10 August, 1780.

Sir: — On Tuesday, the 8th instant, sundry bills
drawn by you upon me, amounting to upwards of
/. 30,000, were presented at my house, and an [sic]
immediately urged. Being that day at Versailles,
and not returning till late in the evening, I gave my
answer the next day, that having no advice of the
said bills, and not knowing on what account they
could be drawn, I did not accept them.

I think I had formerly objected to the drawing of
bills for the amount of an account before the same
had been delivered in, and a sufficient time allowed
for examining and considering it ; which appeared to
me a part of a fair dealing. I know, however, that I
objected to your drawing at a few days' date, which
might be expired before the bills could be presented,
instead of so many sight, and that you promised to
conform to the latter method for the future, and did
so accordingly in your subsequent bills. These,
however, were drawn at eight days' date, and your
letter of advice with the account — if your corre-
spondent had authority to make it, which I think
he had not with any right to expect my paying it
unaccompanied with vouchers, though the payment
was so hastily and prematurely demanded.

On receiving your and my letters, I find the case
between us stands thus: June 20th, you wrote to me
that Capt. Landais had summoned your correspond-
ents to furnish his wants in consequence of the orders

1780] Benjamin Franklin 289

he brought to you from Navy Board, and that you,
knowing there had been disputes, had requested M.
Thevenard, the commandant, to give your corre-
spondents orders how to act, till my orders should
arrive. I answered you, June 24th, that I should
have no objections to "your supplying the Alliance
with such provisions as might be necessary for the
present subsistence of the people that are on board
her, many of whom are exchanged prisoners, honest
and good men, who ought not to suffer famine for
the folly of Capt. Landais. But the king having
given orders for paying all the necessary charges of
that ship during her present relache at L 'Orient, I
did not see why the apphcation had been made to
you unless the provisions furnished ever since her
arrival there had been lately stopped, which I had
heard, because this was unnecessarily bringing a
present expense upon me, besides commencing
a new account of disbursements in another house,
that will rather tend to confuse the affair, and answer
no good purpose." Adding, " I shall therefore write
by this post to L 'Orient, requesting that if the pro-
visions have been stopped on account of Capt. Lan-
dais' misconduct, they may nevertheless be continued
for the sake of the poor people." You will observe
that this permission to supply was conditional: in
case the provisions furnished otherwise had been
stopped on account of the Capt. Landais' misconduct.
That it mentions only provisions, and those neces-
sary for the present subsistence, not sea stores for the
voyage; subsistence, too, for the people, not super-
fluities for the officers; and it was to prevent their

VOL. Will. — 19.

290 The Works of [1780

suffering famine, not to regale them with luxuries.
By the return of the post from L 'Orient, I was in-
formed that the provisions had not been stopped,
and it appeared to be merely the will of Capt. Lan-
dais to take them, with every thing he had a fancy
for, from your correspondents who, it seems, were
very willing to furnish him liberally. You now, in
yours of the 3d instant, speak of my having ap-
proved this measure. I do not find among the copies
of my letters any other approbation than what is con-
tained in the above. If you have any such, please to
send me a copy of it. As to the above, you were at
the time so far from considering it an approbation,
that you acquaint me in your answer of July 15 th
that you had given positive orders to that house not
to furnish any longer to that frigate, and that they
nevertheless had continued to do it ; excusing them-
selves with this slender reason, that no other house
had presented itself for that purpose. It was not to
be expected that another house would present itself
to Messrs. Puchelberg & Co. with such an offer; but
it might have been decent for them to have informed
themselves, before they undertook a business that
was in execution by another house, whether that
house had refused or was willing to continue it. You
cannot but see upon reflection that, were the dis-
bursements necessary, your observation that it is
very immaterial to me, whether they were made by
you or Messrs. Gourlade & Moylan is ill-founded;
since in one case they would have been paid by the
king, who would not probably have demanded pay-
ment till the peace, if ever. And in the other case

lySo] Benjamin Franklin 291

they are demanded of my [sic] with a promptitude
and urgency that is unusual if not unfair and cannot
but be disagreeable, especially when I consider that
the ship was well fitted for the sea and on the point
of sailing when Capt. Landais took possession of her,
and yet an account of near 32,000 livres is run up
against her in a few weeks, great part of it for Itix-
uries and superfluities in extravagant quantities,
and — if I may judge of those I do not know by those
I do — at very extravagant prices. Upon the whole,
since you consider it as a necessary compliance with
the orders you received from the Navy Board, I must
refer you to them for the consideration and allow-
ance of your account. They have neither given me
orders nor furnished me with money to pay such
account, and I am persuaded, whatever respect they
may with me have for yourself, they will not be much
pleased with the conduct of Capt. Landais or your
agents. I have the honor to be, etc.,

B. Franklin.

DCCCCXIII

TO JOHN PAUL JONES

Passy, 12 August, 1780.

Sir: — I received yours by the Count de Vauban,
and I send by him my public despatches, requesting
you to sink them if necessary. I am glad you are so
near ready for sailing. I return all the papers that
were enclosed in yours, and send copies of some

292 The Works of [1780

others, which perhaps may be of use to you in your
future affair with Landais.

Depend upon it, I never wrote to Mr. Gillon, that
the Bonhomme Richard was a privateer. I could
not write so, because I never had such a thought. I
will, next post, send you a copy of my letter to him,
by which you will see that he has only forced that
construction from a vague expression I used, merely
to conceal from him (in answering his idle demand,
that I would order your squadron, then on the point
of sailing, to go with him to Carolina), that the ex-
pedition was at the expense and under the direction
of the king, which it was not proper or necessary for
him to know. The expression I used was, that the
concerned had destined the squadron for another
service. These words, the concerned, he and the
counsellor have interpreted to mean the owner of a
privateer.

I shall send by the post some private letters for my
American friends, for which I had no time by your
express. If you should be still at L 'Orient when they
come, it is well ; but do not wait a moment for them,
if you are ready to sail, and the wind serves. Adieu!
I wish you a prosperous voyage, a happy sight of your
friends and country, and that you may be received
with all the honors you have so justly merited. I
am, etc., B. Franklin.

P. S. — I say nothing about the prize-money, hav-
ing never had any thing to do with it; but I will
endeavor to forward the payment to those honest
fellows who are gone to America. Pray let me know

1780] Benjamin Franklin 293

if the despatches I formerly sent down to go with
you in the Alliance are gone in her. There were
letters containing the proceedings about Captain
Landais.

DCCCCXIV

TO MR. AND MRS. WEST

Passy, 16 August, 1780.

I received by the hands of Mr. Strange, and con-
templated with great pleasure, the representations of
my dear friends Mr. and Mrs. West and their children,
contained in the fine print they have been so kind as
to send me. I pray God to bless them all, particu-
larly my godson, and grant them to live as long as I
have done, and with as much health, who continue
as hearty as a buck, with a hand still steady, as they
may see by this writing. I hope yet to embrace
them once more in peace. In the meantime I wish
them every kind of felicity, being with sincere re-
spect and esteem,

Theirs affectionately,

B. Franklin.

DCCCCXV

TO THE COUNT DE VERGENNES

Passy, 7 September, 1780.

Sir:— I received the letter your Excellency did
me the honor of writing to me, the 14th instant, on

294 The Works of [1780

the appointment of consuls. I have not yet received
any orders or instructions from the Congress relating
to that object. I shall transmit to that body a copy
of your Excellency's letter, but as the office of consul
has not been heretofore in use in America, and they
may therefore not be so well acquainted with the
usual functions and powers of such an officer in Europe
as to send me instructions equally complete and per-
fect with those your Excellency could send to M. de
la Luzerne, if the convention were to be treated there,
I would submit it to your judgment whether that
method may not be the best and shortest. As it is a
matter of the same general nature with others that
are enumerated among the powers of Congress in the
Articles of Confederation, though not particularly
mentioned ; and as the grant in the 29th article of the
treaty is to the States United, and not to each sepa-
rately ; and further, as the having a consul for each
State, or thirteen American consuls, in each port of
France would be more expense and inconvenience
than of real utility, I cannot imagine that the author-
ity of Congress to make the necessary convention
will be disputed by the particular States. With
the greatest respect, I have the honor to be, sir,
your Excellency's most obedient and most humble
servant. B. Franklin.

1780] Benjamin Franklin 295

DCCCCXVI

DIPLOMATIC MEMORANDUM ENCLOSING A SKETCH OF
THE FINANCIAL SITUATION '

N 'ay ant aucun moyen de satisfaire aux payemens
de sommes aussi considerables, & ne pouvant suppor-
ter I'idee de perdre le reste de confiance que nous
avons acquis en Europe par un retour a protest, qui
appr^teroit k rire aux Anglois a nos depens en leur
foumissant les moyens d'ajouter des realites aux
fictions qu'ils ne cessent de repandre.

Le poids de la guerre ne permettant pas au gou-
vemement de diviser ses moyens, pour la pousser
avec vigueur je lui ai propose un expedient qui peut
nous secourir sans lui ^tre a charge, c'est h dire que je
m'engagerois envers lui que le Congres foumiroit par
lui-m^me, ou par les agents frangois, h ses fraix les
vivres necessaires aux troupes de France en Ame-
rique jusqu'k la concurrence de nos besoins suivant
I'etat ci joint, & pour le payement desquels il foumira
ici les sommes necessaires aux epoques fixees.

Tout ce que le Congres foumeroit au dela seroit
rembourse ici & employe a lui f aire passer les articles
d 'Europe qui lui seroit necessaires; on eviteroit par
Ik tous les fraix, les inconveniens, les longueurs, &
les risques qui resultent necessairement d'une assui
grande distance.

B. Franklin.

A Passy ce 26 Sept., 1780.

I The "having" in French of the person who prepared this state-
ment must have been like Beatrice's "having in beard, but a yoimger
brother's revenue." We give it, however, as we find it.
The Works of

[1780

ETAT DES FONDS NECESSAIRES POUR LES EPOQUES CY APRES,

SgAVOIR

Des a present (26 Sepbre., 1780) et jus-

qu' h, la fin de cette ann6e, les traites

du bureau d'emprunt . . . /. 500,000

Celles de Nantes pour solde des achats

qui y ont ^te fait .... 300,000
Le fret et armement du vaisseau le

Marqs. de la Fayette . . . 200,000

Les traittes du Congres pour mille livs.

sterg .....

Dans le quartier de Janvr., Fev. et
Mars, il y aura k payer, les traittes du
bureau d'emprunt ....

Les 50 mille dollars de traittes du Con-
gres (a 5th)

Le reste de celles de M. Lawrens .

Et les depenses courantes

Dans les 3 mois d'Avril, May & Juin, du
bureau d'emprunt ....

Acceptations de Beaumarchais

A compte des draps achetes pr. le Con-
gres

Les depences courantes

Dans les 3 mois de Juillet, Aoust et
Septembre, les traittes du bureau
d'emprunt .....

A compte de draps achetes par le Con-
gres

Les depenses courantes

Dans les 3 mois d'Octobre, Novembre
et Decembre, les traittes du bureau
d'emprunt .....

Pour solde des achats de drap

Les depenses courantes

24,000

800,000

25,000
24,000
26,000

800,000
144,000

100,000
36,000

/.1, 024,000

/. 1,000,000

Z. 1,080,000

800,000

100,000
34,000

900,000

200,000

38,000

/. 934, 000

/.1, 138, 000

/.5, 176, 000

1780] Benjamin Franklin 297

DCCCCXVII

TO CHARLES W. F. DUMAS

Passy, 2 October, 1780.

Dear Sir: — I received duly your several letters of
the 12th, 15th, 17th, 19th, and 21st of September. I
am much pleased with the intelligence you sent me,
and with the papers you have had printed.

Mr. Searle is a military officer of the Pennsylvania
troops, and a member of Congress. He has some
commission to execute for that province, but none
that I know of from Congress. He has an open
letter for you from Mr. Lovell, which he has shown
me. It is full of expressions of his esteem; and I
understand from Mr. Searle that you stand exceed-
ingly well with the Committee and with the Congress
in general. I am sorr>^ to see any marks of uneasi-
ness and apprehension in your letters. M. Chau-
mont tells me that you want some assurance of being
continued. The Congress itself is changeable at the
pleasure of their electors, and none of their servants
have, or can have, any such assurance. If, there-
fore, any thing better for you, and more substantial,
should offer, nobody can blame you for accepting
it, however satisfied they may be with your services.
But, as to the continuance of what you may enjoy,
or of something as valuable in the service of the
Congress, I think you may make yourself easy; for
your appointment seems more likely to be increased
than diminished, though it does not belong to me to
promise any thing.

Mr. Laurens was to sail three days after Mr. Searle,

298 The Works of [1780

who begins to fear he must be lost, as it was a
vessel he intended to embark in. He was bound
directly to Holland.*

I enclose some extracts of letters from two French
officers of distinction in the army of M. de Rocham-
beau, which are pleasing, as they mark the good in-
telligence that subsists between the troops, contrary
to the reports circulated by the English. They will
do perhaps for your Leyden Gazette. With great es-
teem and affection, I am ever, etc.,

B. Franklin.

I This was Henry Laurens, of South CaroHna, who had been a promi-
nent member of the Continental Congress, of which he succeeded
Hancock as President. In August, 1780, he was appointed a Com-
missioner to negotiate a loan in Holland. A few days after he sailed,
he was captured by an English cruiser, was sent to England and
confined in the Tower. Though nearly three months had elapsed since
he sailed, Franklin had not yet been apprised of his fate. After a
tedious and painful imprisonment of fifteen months he was finally
released in exchange for Lord Comwallis. The papers with which
he was charged by Congress he threw overboard when captured, but
they were secured by the enemy before they had time to sink. They
were forwarded to London, and their contents were the proximate cause
of the war that soon ensued between Holland and England. Upon
his release Mr. Laurens repaired to Holland, but as Mr. Adams had
been commissioned as Minister Plenipotentiary to that court, he
applied for leave to return. In reply to this request, he was directed
by Congress to join Messrs. FrankHn, Adams, and Jay at Paris to assist
in negotiating a general peace. He returned to the United States in
1784 and died on the 8th of December, 1792, at the age of 69. His
official correspondence, which will be found in the 2d volume of the
Diplomatic Correspondence of the American Revolution, reproaches
Franklin with a neglect to do all that he might and should have done
to shorten his imprisonment. These reproaches, as will appear later,
were entirely undeserved. Nothing that Franklin or any one else
could do would have induced the British government to give Laurens
his freedom at any time before the capture of Comwallis.

1780] Benjamin Franklin 299

DCCCCXVIII

TO JOHN JAY

Passy, 2 October, 1780.

Dear Sir: — I received dtily and in good order the
several letters you have written to me of August
1 6th, 19th, September 8th and 2 2d. The papers that
accompanied them of your writing gave me the pleas-
ure of seeing the affairs of otu- coimtry in such good
hands, and the prospect, from your youth, of its hav-
ing the service of so able a minister for a great num-
ber of years. But the Httle success that has attended
your late applications for money mortified me ex-
ceedingly; and the storm of bills, which I found
coming upon us both, has terrified and vexed me to
such a degree, that I have been deprived of sleep,
and so much indisposed by continual anxiety, as to
be rendered almost incapable of writing.

At length I got over a reluctance that was almost
invincible, and made another apphcation to the gov-
ernment here for more money. I drew up and pre-
sented a state of debts and newly expected demands,
and requested its aid to extricate me. Judging from
your letters that you were not likely to obtain any
thing considerable from your court, I put down in my
estimate the twenty-five thousand dollars drawn
upon you, with the same sum drawn upon me, as
what would probably come to me for payment. I
have now the pleasure to acquaint you that my
memorial was received in the kindest and most
friendly manner; and, though the court here is not
without its embarrassments on account of money,

300 The Works of [1780

I was told to make myself easy, for that I should be
assisted with what was necessary.

Mr. Searle arriving about this time, and assuring
.me there had been a plentiful harvest and great
crops of all kinds ; that the Congress had demanded
of the several States contributions in produce, which
would be cheerfully given; that they would there-
fore have plenty of provisions to dispose of; and, I
being much pleased with the generous behavior just
experienced, I presented another paper, proposing,
in order to ease the government here, which had
been so willing to ease us, that the Congress might
furnish their army in America with provisions in
part payment for the services lent us. This propo-
sition, I was told, was well taken, but it being con-
sidered that the States having the enemy in their
country, and obliged to make great expenses for the
present campaign, the furnishing so much provisions
as the French army might need might straiten and
be inconvenient to the Congress, his Majesty did not
at this time think it right to accept the offer. You
will not wonder at my loving this good prince; he
will win the hearts of all America.

If you are not so fortunate in Spain, continue,
however, the even good temper you have hitherto
manifested. Spain owes us nothing; therefore,
whatever friendship she shows us in lending money,
or furnishing clothes, etc., though not equal to our
wants and wishes, is however tant de gagne. Those
who have begun to assist us are more likely to con-
tinue than to decline, and we are still so much obliged
as their aids amount to. But I hope, and am con-

1780] Benjamin Franklin 301

fident, that court will be wiser than to take advan-
tage of our distress, and insist on our making sacri-
fices by an agreement, which the circumstances
of such distress would hereafter weaken, and the
very proposition can only give disgust at present.
Poor as we are, yet, as I know we shall be rich, I
would rather agree with them to buy at a great price
the whole of their right on the Mississippi, than sell
a drop of its waters. A neighbor might as well ask
me to sell my street door.

I wish you could obtain an account of what they
have supplied us with already in money and goods.

M. Grand informing me that one of the bills
drawn on you having been sent from hence to Madrid
was come back unaccepted, I have directed him to
pay it; and he has, at my request undertaken to
write to the Marquis D'Yranda, to assist you with
money to answer such bills as you are not otherwise
enabled to pay, and to draw on him for the amount ;
which drafts I shall answer here as far as twenty-five
thousand dollars. If you expect more, acquaint
me. But pray write to Congress, as I do, to forbear
this practice, which is so extremely hazardous, and
may, some time or other, prove very mischievous to
their credit and affairs. I have undertaken, too,
for the bills drawn on Mr. Laurens, that have yet
appeared. He was to have sailed three days after
Mr. Searle, that is, the i8th of July. Mr. Searle
begins to be in pain for him, having no good opinion
of the little vessel he was to embark in.

We have letters from America to the 7th of August.
The spirit of our people was never higher. Vast

302 The Works of [1780

exertions making are preparatory for some impor-
tant action; great harmony and affection between
the troops of the two nations ; the new money in good
credit, etc.

I will write to you again shortly, and to Mr. Car-
michael. I shall now be able to pay up your salaries
complete for the year; but, as demands unforeseen
are continually coming upon me, I still retain the ex-
pectations you have given me, of being reimbursed
out of the first remittances you receive.

If you find any inclination to hug me for the good
news of this letter, I constitute and appoint Mrs. Jay
my attorney to receive in my behalf your embraces.
With great and sincere esteem, I have the honor to
be, dear sir, etc., B. Franklin.

DCCCCXIX

TO J. ADAMS

Passy, 2 October, 1780.

Sir: — By all our late advices from America, the
hopes you express that our countrymen, instead of
amusing themselves any longer with delusive dreams
of peace, would bend the whole force of their minds
to find out their own strength and resources, and to
depend upon themselves, are actually accomplished. '

* In a letter dated August 17, 1780, Adams had written Franklin:
"It is very plain, however, that speculation and disputation can do us
little service. No facts are believed, but decisive military conquests;
no arguments are seriously attended to in Europe, but force. It is to be
hoped oxir countrymen, instead of amusing themselves any longer with

i78o] Benjamin Franklin 303

All the accounts I have seen agree that the spirit of
our people was never higher than at present, nor
their exertions more vigorous.

Enclosed I send you extracts of some letters from
two French officers, a colonel and lieutenant-colonel
in the army of M. de Rochambeau, which are the
more pleasing, as they not only give a good character
of our troops, but show the good understanding that
subsists between them and those of our ally. I hope
we shall soon hear of something decisive performed
by their joint operations, for your observation is
just, that speculations and disputations do us little
service. Our credit and weight in Europe depend
more on what we do than on what we say ; and I have
long been humihated with the idea of our running
about from court to court begging for money and
friendship, which are the more withheld, the more
eagerly they are soHcited, and would perhaps have
been offered if they had not been asked. The sup-
posed necessity is our only excuse. The proverb
says, God helps them that help themselves. And the
world too in this sense is very godly.

As the English papers have pretended to intelli-
gence that our troops and the French disagree, per-
haps it would not be amiss to get these extracts
inserted in the Amsterdam Gazette.

With great respect, I have the honor to be, etc.

My compliments to Messrs. Dana and Austin.

delusive dreams of peace, will bend the whole force of their minds to
augment their navy, to find out their own strength and resources, and
to depend upon themselves."

304 The Works of [1780

DCCCCXX

TO JOHN ADAMS

Passy, 8 October, 1780.

Sir: — I received the letter you did me the honor
of writing to me by Mr. Andrews, and shall render
him every service I can in his application.

Your books and trunks have been lodged here by
Mr. Thaxter, and will be taken care of. They are of
no inconvenience to me.

We begin to be in pain for Mr. Laurens, who was
to have sailed three days after Mr. Searle. If that
took place, he has been out ten or eleven weeks. I
hope he did not sail so soon, otherwise it would be
probable that he is either lost or taken. ^

I do not just now recollect my having written as
from myself any letter to the Grand Pensionary. I
drew, indeed, the letter that was sent by the Com-
missioners acquainting him with the treaty of com-
merce, to which we had no answer. But I will
search, and if I find such a one will send you a copy
of the other.

I shall be glad to hear if you are like to make any
progress in the affair of a loan, which I imderstand
Mr. Laurens was charged with. I send you enclosed
a copy of a vote of Congress, respecting your salaries.
I hope you will be able to do without my assistance.
If not, I must furnish you. But I have been obliged
to accept M. Neufville's bills on account of his ac-
ceptances of those drawn on Mr. Laurens, and
I shall with some difficulty be able to pay them,

^ See note on p. 298.

1780] Benjamin Franklin 305

though these extra demands often embarrass me
exceedingly.

We hear that the Alliance is arrived at Boston.

I beg leave to recommend to your civilities Mr.
Searle, a Member of Congress for Pennsylvania, with
whose conversation you will be pleased, as he can
give you good information of the state of our affairs
when he left America.

I ought to acquaint you, a governo as the merchants
say, that M. le Comte de Vergennes, having taken
much amiss some passages in your letter to him, sent
the whole correspondence to me, requesting that I
would transmit it to Congress. I was myself sorry to
see those passages. If they were the effects merely
of inadvertence, and you do not on reflection approve
of them, perhaps you may think it proper to write
something for effacing the impressions made by them.
I do not presume to advise you ; but mention it only
for your consideration. The vessel is not yet gone,
which carries the papers. With great regard, I have
the honor to be, sir, etc., B. Franklin.

DCCCCXXI

TO MISS GEORGIANA SHIPLEY

Passy, 8 October, 1780.

It is long, very long, my dear friend, since I had
the great pleasure of hearing from you, and receiving
any of your very pleasing letters. But it is my fault.
I have long omitted my part of the correspondence.
Those who love to receive letters shotild write letters.

VOL. VIII. — 20.

3o6 The Works of [1780

I wish I could safely promise an amendment of that
fault. But, besides the indolence attending age, and
growing upon us with it, my time is engrossed by too
much business ; and I have too many inducements to
^ postpone doing what I feel I ought to do for m.y own
sake, and what I can never resolve to omit entirely.

Your translations from Horace, as far as I can
judge of poetry and translations, are very good.
That of the Qud, qu6, scelesti ruitisf is so suitable to
the times, that the conclusion (in your version)
seems, to threaten like a prophecy; and me thinks
there is at least some appearance of danger that it
may be fulfilled. I am unhappily an enemy, yet I
think there has been enough of blood spilt, and I
wish what is left in the veins of that once loved peo-
ple may be spared by a peace solid and everlasting.

It is a great while since I have heard any thing of
the good bishop. Strange, that so simple a character
should sufficiently distinguish one of that sacred
body! Donnez-moi de ses nouvelles. I have been
some time flattered with the expectation of seeing
the countenance of that most honored and ever be-
loved friend, delineated by your pencil. The por-
trait is said to have been long on the way, but it is
not yet arrived ; nor can I hear where it is.

Indolent as I have confessed myself to be, I could
not, you see, miss this good and safe opportunity of
sending you a few lines, with my best wishes for your
happiness, and that of the whole dear and amiable
family in whose sweet society I have spent so many
happy hours. Mr. Jones ' tells me he shall have a

^ Afterwards Sir William Jones, who married her sister. — Editor.

1780] Benjamin Franklin 307

pleasure in being the bearer of my letter, of which I
make no doubt. I learn from him that to your draw-
ing, and music, and painting, and poetry, and Latin,
you have added a proficiency in chess ; so that you
are, as the French say, remplie de talents. May they
and you fall to the lot of one that shall duly value
them, and love you as much as I do. Adieu.

B. Franklin.

DCCCCXXII

TO CHARLES W. F. DUMAS

Passy, 9 October, 1780.

Dear Sir: — I received yours of the 29th of Sep-
tember and 3d of October. It is a very good addi-
tion you have made to your Memoir for the ministers
of Russia and Sweden. I am glad to find you are
again on such good terms with the ambassador as to
be invited to his comedy. I doubt not of your con-
tinuing to cultivate that good understanding. I
like much your insertions in the gazettes. Such
things have good effects.

Your information relative to the transactions at
Petersburgh and in Denmark are very interesting,
and afforded me a good deal of satisfaction, particu-
larly the former. Mr. Searle will have the pleasure
of seeing you. I recommend him warmly to your
civilities. He is much your friend, and will advise
Mr, Laurens to make you his secretary, which I hope
you will accept. I have given it as my opinion that
Mr. Laurens can nowhere find one better qualified, or

3o8 The Works of [1780

more deserving. The choice is left to that minister,
and he is empowered to give a salary of five hundred
pounds sterling a year. I am in pain on account of
his not being yet arrived, but I hope you will see him
soon. I request you would find means to introduce
Mr. Searle to the Portuguese ambassador. Pray con-
sider the enclosed papers, and, after advising with
your friend, give me your opinion as to the manner
of the application to the States- General, whether I
should make it through their ambassador, or directly
with a letter to the Grand Pensionary, or in what
other manner. You know we wrote to him formerly,
and received no answer. With great esteem, I am,
etc., B. Franklin.

P. S. — You say nothing of Mr. Adams. How do
you stand with him ? What is he doing ?

DCCCCXXIII

TO THOMAS RUSTON

Passy, 9 October, 1780.

Sir: — I received and read with pleasure your
thoughts on American finance, and your scheme of a
bank. I communicated them to the Abbe Morellet,
who is a good judge of the subject, and he has trans-
lated them into French. He thinks them generally
very just, and very clearly expressed. I shall for-
ward them to a friend in the Congress.

That body is, as you suppose, not well skilled in
financing. But their deficiency in knowledge has
been amply supplied by good luck. They issued an

1780] Benjamin Franklin 309

immense quantity of paper bills to pay, clothe, arm,
and feed their troops, and fit out ships ; and with this
paper, without taxes for the first three years, they
fought and baffled one of the most powerful nations
of Etirope. They hoped, notwithstanding its quan-
tity, to have kept up the value of their paper. In
this they were mistaken. It depreciated gradually.
But this depreciation, though in some circumstances
inconvenient, has had the general good and great
effect of operating as a tax, and perhaps the most
equal of all taxes, since it depreciated in the hands of
the holders of money, and thereby taxed them in pro-
portion to the sums they held and the time they held
it, which generally is in proportion to men's wealth.
Thus, after having done its business, the paper is
reduced to the sixtieth part of its original value.

Having issued two hundred millions of dollars the
Congress stopped, and supplied themselves by bor-
rowing. These sums were borrowed at different
periods during the progress of the depreciation.
Those who lent to the public thereby fixed the value
of the paper they lent, since it is to be repaid in sil-
ver according to its value at the time of the loan.
The rest went on depreciating ; and the depreciation
is at length only stopped by the vast nominal sums
called in easily by taxes, and which will be by that
means destroyed. Thus, so much of the public debt
has been in this manner insensibly paid, that the
remainder, which you desire to know, does not ex-
ceed six millions sterling. And now they are work-
ing with new paper, expressed to be equal in value
to silver, which they have made to bear interest;

3IO The Works of [1780

and I have provided such funds to pay that interest,
that probably its original value will be supported.

In the meantime the vigor of their military opera-
tions is again revived, and they are now as able, with
respect to money, to carry on the war, as they were
at the beginning, and much more so with regard to
troops, arms, and discipline. It is also an increasing
nation, sixty thousand children having been born an-
nually in the United States since the beginning of the
war ; while their enemies are said to be diminishing.

I am, sir, etc., B. Franklin.

DCCCCXXIV

TO RICHARD PRICE

Passy, 9 October, 1780.

Dear Sir: — Besides the pleasure of their compan}^,
I had the great satisfaction of hearing by your two
valuable friends, and learning from your letter, that
you enjoy a good state of health. May God continue
it, as well for the good of mankind as for your com-
fort. I thank you much for the second edition of
your excellent pamphlet. I forwarded that you sent
to Mr. Dana, he being in Holland. I wish also to see
the piece you have written (as Mr. Jones tells me) on
Toleration. I do not expect that your new Parlia-
ment will be either wiser or honester than the last.
All projects to procure an honest one, by place bills,
etc., appear to me vain and impracticable. The true
cure, I imagine, is to be found only in rendering all
places unprofitable, and the king too poor to give
bribes and pensions. Till this is done, which can

1780] Benjamin Franklin 311

only be by a revolution (and I think you have not
virtue enough left to procure one), your nation will
always be plundered and obliged to pay by taxes the
plunderers for plundering and ruining. Liberty and
virtue, therefore, join in the call, Come out of her,
MY people!

I am fully of your opinion respecting religious
tests; but, though the people of Massachusetts have
not in their new Constitution kept quite clear of them,
yet, if we consider what that people were one hun-
dred years ago, we must allow they have gone great
lengths in liberality of sentiment on religious sub-
jects; and we may hope for greater degrees of per-
fection when their Constitution, some years hence,
shall be revised. If Christian preachers had con-
tinued to teach as Christ and his Apostles did, with-
out salaries, and as the Quakers now do, I imagine
tests would never have existed; for I think they
were invented not so much to secure religion itself
as the emoluments of it. When a religion is good, I
conceive that it will support itself ; and when it can-
not support itself, and God does not take care to sup-
port it, so that its professors are obliged to call for
the help of the civil power, it is a sign, I apprehend,
of its being a bad one. But I shall be out of my
depth if I wade any deeper in theology, and I will
not trouble you with politics, nor with news which
are almost as uncertain ; but conclude with a heart-
felt wish to embrace you once more, and enjoy your
sweet society in peace, among our honest, worthy,
ingenious friends at the London. Adieu.

B. Franklin.

312 The Works of [1780

DCCCCXXV

DIALOGUE BETWEEN FRANKLIN AND THE GOUT

Midnight, 22 October, 1780.

Franklin. Eh! oh! eh! What have I done to
merit these cruel sufferings?

Gout. Many things ; you have ate and drank too
freely, and too much indulged those legs of yours in
their indolence.

Franklin. Who is it that accuses me?

Gout. It is I, even I, the Gout.

Franklin. What! my enemy in person?

Gout. No, not your enemy.

Franklin. I repeat it, my enemy ; for you woiild
not only torment my body to death, but ruin my
good name; you reproach me as a glutton and a
tippler; now all the world, that knows me, will
allow that I am neither the one nor the other.

Gout. The world may think as it pleases; it is
always very complaisant to itself, and sometimes to
its friends ; but I very well know that the quantity of
meat and drink proper for a man, who takes a reason-
able degree of exercise, would be too much for an-
other, who never takes any.

Franklin. I take — eh! oh! — as much exercise
— eh! — as I can. Madam Gout. You know my
sedentary state, and on that account, it would seem,
Madam Gout, as if you might spare me a little, see-
ing it is not altogether my own fault.

Gout. Not a jot; your rhetoric and your polite-
ness are thrown away ; your apology avails nothing.
If your situation in life is a sedentary one, your

1780] Benjamin Franklin 313

amusements, your recreation, at least, should be
active. You ought to walk or ride ; or, if the weather
prevents that, play at billiards. But let us examine
your course of life. While the mornings are long,
and you have leisure to go abroad, what do you do?
Why, instead of gaining an appetite for breakfast,
by salutary exercise, you amuse yourself with books,
pamphlets, or newspapers, which commonly are not
worth the reading. Yet you eat an inordinate
breakfast, four dishes of tea, with cream, and one or
two buttered toasts, with slices of hung beef, which
I fancy are not things the most easily digested. Im-
mediately afterwards you sit down to write at your
desk, or converse with persons who apply to you on
business. Thus the time passes till one, without any
kind of bodily exercise. But all this I could pardon,
in regard, as you say, to your sedentary condition.
But what is your practice after dinner? Walking
in the beautiful gardens of those friends with whom
you have dined would be the choice of men of sense ;
yours is to be fixed down to chess, where you are
found engaged for two or three hours ! This is your
perpetual recreation, which is the least eligible of any
for a sedentary man, because, instead of accelerat-
ing the motion of the fluids, the rigid attention it re-
quires helps to retard the circulation and obstruct
internal secretions. Wrapt in the speculations
of this wretched game, you destroy your consti-
tution. What can be expected from such a course
of living, but a body replete with stagnant humors,
ready to fall a prey to all kinds of dangerous mal-
adies, if I, the Gout, did not occasionally bring you

314 The Works of [1780

relief by agitating those humors, and so purifying or
dissipating them? If it was in some nook or alley
in Paris, deprived of walks, that you played awhile
at chess after dinner, this might be excusable; but
the same taste prevails with you in Passy, Auteuil,
Montmartre, or Sanoy, places where there are the
finest gardens and walks, a pure air, beautiful women,
and most agreeable and instructive conversation;
all which you might enjoy by frequenting the walks.
But these are rejected for this abominable game of
chess. Fie, then, Mr. Franklin! But amidst my
instructions, I had almost forgot to administer my
wholesome corrections; so take that twinge, — and
that.

Franklin. Oh! eh! oh! ohhh! As much in-
struction as you please. Madam Gout, and as many
reproaches; but pray, Madam, a truce with your
corrections !

Gout. No, Sir, no, — I will not abate a particle of
what is so much for your good, — therefore

Franklin. Oh! ehhh! — It is not fair to say I
take no exercise, when I do very often, going out to
dine and returning in my carriage.

Gout. That, of all imaginable exercises, is the
most slight and insignificant, if you allude to the mo-
tion of a carriage suspended on springs. By observ-
ing the degree of heat obtained by different kinds of
motion, we may form an estimate of the quantity of
exercise given by each. Thus, for example, if you
turn out to walk in winter with cold feet, in an hour's
time you will be in a glow all over ; ride on horseback,
the same effect will scarcely be perceived by four

1780] Benjamin Franklin 315

hours' round trotting; but if you loll in a carriage,
such as you have mentioned, you may travel all day
and gladly enter the last inn to warm your feet by a
fire. Flatter yourself then no longer, that half an
hour's airing in your carriage deserves the name of
exercise. Providence has appointed few to roll in
carriages, while he has given to all a pair of legs,
which are machines infinitely more commodious and
serviceable. Be grateful, then, and make a proper
use of yours. Would you know how they forward
the circulation of your fluids, in the very action of
transporting you from place to place ; observe when
you walk, that all your weight is alternately thrown
from one leg to the other; this occasions a great
pressure on the vessels of the foot, and repels their
contents ; when relieved, by the weight being thrown
on the other foot, the vessels of the first are allowed
to replenish, and, by a return of this weight, this re-
pulsion again succeeds; thus accelerating the circu-
lation of the blood. The heat produced in any given
time depends on the degree of this acceleration ; the
fluids are shaken, the humors attenuated, the secre-
tions facilitated, and all goes well; the cheeks are
ruddy, and health is estabhshed. Behold your fair
friend at Auteuil ^ ; a lady who received from boun-
teous nature more really useful science than half a
dozen such pretenders to philosophy as you have been
able to extract from all your books. When she
honors you with a visit, it is on foot. She walks all
hours of the day, and leaves indolence, and its con-
comitant maladies, to be endured by her horses. In

^ Madame Helvetius. — Ed.

3i6 The Works of L1780

this, see at once the preservative of her health and
personal charms. But when you go to Auteuil, you
must have your carriage, though it is no farther from
Passy to Auteuil than from Auteuil to Passy.

Franklin. Your reasonings grow very tiresome.

Gout. I stand corrected. I will be silent and
continue my office ; take that, and that.

Franklin. Oh! Ohh! Talk on, I pray you.

Gout. No, no; I have a good number of twinges
for you to-night, and you may be sure of some more
to-morrow.

Franklin. What, with such a fever! I shall
go distracted. Oh! eh! Can no one bear it for
me?

Gout. Ask that of your horses ; they have served
you faithfully.

Franklin. How can you so cruelly sport with
my torments?

Gout. Sport! I am very serious. I have here a
list of offences against your own health distinctly
written, and can justify every stroke inflicted on
you.

Franklin. Read it then.

Gout. It is too long a detail; but I will briefly
mention some particulars.

Franklin. Proceed. I am all attention.

Gout. Do you remember how often you have
promised yourself, the following morning, a walk in
the grove of Boulogne, in the garden de la Muette,
or in your own garden, and have violated your pro-
mise, alleging, at one time, it was too cold, at another
too warm, too windy, too moist, or what else you

1780] Benjamin Franklin 317

pleased ; when in truth it was too nothing, but your
insuperable love of ease?

Franklin. That I confess may have happened
occasionally, probably ten times in a year.

Gout. Your confession is very far short of the
truth ; the gross amount is one hundred and ninety-
nine times.

Franklin. Is it possible?

Gout. So possible, that it is fact ; you may rely
on the accuracy of my statement. You know M.
Brillon's gardens, and what fine walks they contain;
you know the handsome flight of an hundred steps,
which lead from the terrace above to the lawn below.
You have been in the practice of visiting this amiable
family twice a week, after dinner, and it is a maxim
of your own, that " a man may take as much exercise
in walking a mile, up and down stairs, as in ten on
level ground." What an opportunity was here for
you to have had exercise in both these ways! Did
you embrace it, and how often ?

Franklin. I cannot immediately answer that
question.

Gout. I will do it for you ; not once.

Franklin. Not once?

Gout. Even so. During the summer you went
there at six o'clock. You found the charming lady,
with her lovely children and friends, eager to walk
with you, and entertain you with their agreeable con-
versation ; and what has been your choice ? Why, to
sit on the terrace, satisfying yourself with the fine
prospect, and passing your eye over the beauties of
the garden below, without taking one step to descend

3i8 The Works of [1780

and walk about in them. On the contrary, you call
for tea and the chess-board; and lo! you are occu-
pied in your seat till nine o'clock, and that besides
two hours' play after dinner; and then, instead of
walking home, which would have bestirred you a
little, you step into your carriage. How absurd to
suppose that all this carelessness can be reconcilable
with health, without my interposition!

Franklin. I am convinced now of the justness
of Poor Richard's remark, that " Our debts and our
sins are always greater than we think for."

Gout. So it is. You philosophers are sages in
your maxims, and fools in your conduct.

Franklin. But do you charge among my crimes,
that I return in a carriage from M. Brillon's?

Gout. Certainly ; for, having been seated all the
while, you cannot object the fatigue of the day, and
cannot want therefore the relief of a carriage.

Franklin. What then would you have me do
with my carriage?

Gout. Bum it if you choose ; you would at least
get heat out of it once in this way ; or, if you dislike
that proposal, here 's another for you; observe the
poor peasants, who work in the vineyards and
grounds about the villages of Passy, Auteuil, Chail-
lot, etc.; you may find every day among these de-
serving creatures, four or five old men and women,
bent and perhaps crippled by weight of years, and
too long and too great labor. After a most fatiguing
day, these people have to trudge a mile or two to
their smoky huts. Order your coachman to set
them down. This is an act that will be good for

1780] Benjamin Franklin 319

your soul ; and, at the same time, after your visit to
the Brillons, if you return on foot, that will be good
for your body.

Franklin. Ah! how tiresome you are!

Gout. Well, then, to my office ; it should not be
forgotten that I am your physician. There.

Franklin. Ohhh! what a devil of a physician!

Gout. How ungrateful you are to say so! Is it
not I who, in the character of your physician, have
saved you from the palsy, dropsy, and apoplexy? one
or other of which would have done for you long ago,
but for me.

Franklin. I submit, and thank you for the past,
but entreat the discontinuance of your visits for the
future ; for, in my mind, one had better die than be
cured so dolefully. Permit me just to hint, that I
have also not been unfriendly to you. I never feed
physician or quack of any kind, to enter the list
against you; if then you do not leave me to my re-
pose, it may be said you are ungrateful too.

Gout. I can scarcely acknowledge that as any ob-
jection. As to quacks, I despise them; they may
kill you indeed, but cannot injure me. And, as to
regular physicians, they are at last convinced that
the gout, in such a subject as you are, is no disease,
but a remedy; and wherefore cure a remedy? — ^but
to our business, — there.

Franklin. Oh! oh!— for Heaven's sake leave
me! and I promise faithfully never more to play at
chess, but to take exercise daily, and live temper-
ately.

Gout. I know you too well. You promise fair;

320 The Works of [1780

but, after a few months of good health, you will re-
turn to your old habits; your fine proniises will be
forgotten like the forms of the last year's clouds.
Let us then finish the accoimt, and I will go. But I
leave you with an assiu^ance of visiting you again at
a proper time and place ; for my object is your good,
and you are sensible now that I am yoiu* real friend.

DCCCCXXVI

FROM JOHN ADAMS

Amsterdam, 4 November, 1780.

Sir: — M. de Neufville this morning brought to me
a number of bills of exchange, drawn upon Mr.
Laurens, in the month of July, amounting to seven
or eight hundred pounds sterling, and informed me
that your Excellency had declined becoming re-
sponsible for them, and referred him to me. I have
inquired of Mr. Searle, who informs me there are
about twenty thousand pounds in such bills now on
their way.

If there were only seven or eight hundred pounds,
I would accept them for the honor of the United
States, and run the venture of being able to pay
them, by borrowing, or some way or other; but
twenty thousand pounds is much beyond my private
credit.

I have been, and am, pursuing all those measures
to which I am advised by gentlemen in whose judg-
ment I can justify placing confidence, and am not

i78o] Benjamin Franklin 321

without hopes of succeeding in some measure; but
I have not as yet been able to obtain any money,
nor any certainty of obtaining any in future. I
write this, therefore, to your Excellency, that, if you
could see your way clear to become responsible for
these bills for the present, I will engage to see them
paid with the money I may borrow here, if I borrow
enough before the term for their payment expires,
or as much of them as I shall be able to borrow; but
in this case, if I should not succeed in obtaining
the money, your Excellency will be answerable. I
should be sorry that the credit of the United States
should suffer any stain, and would prevent it if I
could ; but at present it is not in my power.

The successes of the English at the southward,
added to the many causes that obstructed our credit
in this republic before, some of which it would not
be prudent to explain, will render a loan here diffi-
cult; but I still hope not quite impracticable. I
have the honor to be, etc.,

John Adams.

DCCCCXXVII

TO SIR GREY COOPER, SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY
OF GREAT BRITAIN

Passy, 7 November, 1780.

Sir: — I understand that Mr. Laurens, an Ameri-
can gentleman, for whom I have a great esteem, is a
prisoner in the Tower, and that his health suffers by
the closeness and rigor of his confinement. As I do

VOL. VIII. — 21.

322 The Works of [1780

not think that your affairs receive any advantage
from the harshness of this proceeding, I take the
freedom of requesting your kind interposition, to
obtain for him such a degree of air and hberty, on
his parole or otherwise, as may be necessary for his
health and comfort. The fortune of war, which is
daily changing, may possibly put it in my power to
do the like good office for some friend of yours,
which I shall perform with much pleasure, not only
for the sake of humanity, but in respect to the ashes
of our former friendship. With great regard, I have
the honor to be, etc., B. Franklin.^

^ In reply to this, Franklin received from Sir Grey Cooper a letter on
the 29th of same month, enclosing the following note from Mr. Charles
Vernon, Lieut. -Gov. of the Tower.

"Hampstead, 27 Nov., 1780.

"Dear Sir: — I am much ashamed to think that I shall appear so
dilatory in answering the favor of your letter; but the truth is I v/as
not in town when the messenger left it in Cork Street, and by the
neglect of my servants I received it only on Sunday last. I went
immediately to the Tower, to know from Mr. Laurens himself if he
had any cause of complaint, and if he had availed himself of the
indulgence allowed him by the Secretary of State, of walking within
the Tower whenever it was agreeable to himself. His answer to me
was full and frank to the questions, that he had received every reason-
able indulgence since his confinement, and that by the liberty allowed
him of walking he fotmd his health much mended. He said, at the
same time, that he had always thought himself highly honored by the
distinguished place of his confinement, and regretted much it was not
in his power to make known to all the world the acknowledgments he
had more than once made to me upon this subject.

" I beg you will do me the favor to communicate these particulars
to Lord George Germain as soon as convenient. I have the honor to
be, dear sir, etc., Charles Vernon."

The tenor of this note is not in harmony with the sentiments ex-
pressed by Mr. Laurens, about a year afterwards, in his petition pre-
sented to the House of Commons by Mr. Burke. In this petition,
dated December 7, 1781, he states: "That he was captured on the
American coast, and committed to the Tower on the 6th of October,

1780] Benjamin Franklin 322

DCCCCXXVIII

TO EDWARD NAIRNE, OF LONDON

READ AT A MEETING OF THE AMERICAN PHILOSOPHICAL SOCIETY,
JANUARY 26, 1786.

Passy, NEAR Paris, 13 November, 1780.

Sir: — The qualities hitherto sought in a hygrome-
ter, or instrument to discover the degrees of moisture
and dryness in the air, seem to have been, an aptitude
to receive humidity readily from a moist air, and to
part with it as readily to a dry air. Different sub-
stances have been found to possess more or less of
this quality ; but when we shall have found the sub-
stance that has it in the greatest perfection, there will
still remain some uncertainty in the conclusions to be
drawn from the degree shown by the instrument,
arising from the actual state of the instrument itself
as to heat and cold. Thus, if two bottles or vessels
of glass or metal being filled, the one with cold and
the other with hot water, are brought into a room,
the moisture of the air in the room will attach itself
in quantities to the surface of the cold vessel ; while,
if you actually wet the surface of the hot vessel, the
moisture will immediately quit it, and be absorbed by
the same air. And thus, in a sudden change in the

1780, being then dangerously ill: that in the meantime he has in
many respects, partictilarly by being deprived (with very little ex-
ception) of the visits and consolations of his children and other relations
and friends, suffered under a degree of rigor, almost, if not altogether,
unexampled in modem British history; that, from long confinement
and the want of proper exercise, and other obvious causes, his bodily
health is greatly impaired, and that he is now in a languishing state,"
etc. See Annual Register for 1781, p. 322.

324 The Works of [1780

air from cold to warm, the instrument remaining
longer cold may condense and absorb more moisture,
and mark the air as having become more humid than
it is in reality, and the contrary in a change from
warm to cold.

But, if such a sudden changing instmment could
be freed from these imperfections, yet, when the de-
sign is to discover the different degrees of humidity
in the air of different countries, I apprehend the
quick sensibility of the instrument to be rather a
disadvantage ; since, to draw the desired conclusions
from it, a constant and frequent observation day and
night in each country will be necessary for a year
or years, and the mean of each different set of ob-
servations is to be found and determined. After
all which, some uncertainty will remain respecting
the different degrees of exactitude with which differ-
ent persons may have made and taken notes of their
observations.

For these reasons I apprehend that a substance
which, though capable of being distended by mois-
ture and contracted by dryness, is so slow in receiv-
ing and parting with its humidity, that the frequent
changes in the atmosphere have not time to affect it
sensibly, and which therefore should gradually take
nearly the medium of all those changes and preserve
it constantly, would be the most proper substance
of which to make such an hygrometer.

Such an instrument, you, my dear sir, though with-
out intending it, have made for me; and I, without
desiring or expecting it, have received from you. It
is therefore with propriety that I address to you the

1780] Benjamin Franklin 325

following account of it; and the more as you have
both a head to contrive and a hand to execute the
means of perfecting it. And I do this with greater
pleasure, as it affords me the opportunity of renewing
that ancient correspondence and acquaintance with
you, which to me was always so pleasing and so
instructive.

You may possibly remember that, in or about the
year 1758, you made for me a set of artificial magnets,
six in number, each five inches and a half long, half
an inch broad, and one eighth of an inch thick. These,
with two pieces of soft iron, which together equalled
one of the magnets, were enclosed in a little box of
mahogany wood, the grain of which ran with, and not
across, the length of the box ; and the box was closed
by a little shutter of the same wood, the grain of
which ran across the box ; and the ends of this shut-
ting piece were bevelled so as to fit and slide in a kind
of dovetail groove when the box was to be shut or
opened.

I had been of opinion that good mahogany wood
was not affected by moisture so as to change its di-
mensions, and that it was always to be foimd as the
tools of the workmen left it. Indeed the difference
at different times in the same coimtry is so small as
to be scarcely in a common way observable. Hence
the box, which was made so as to allow sufficient
room for the magnets to slide out and in freely, and,
when in, afforded them so much play that by shaking
the box one could make them strike the opposite
sides alternately, continued in the same state all the
time I remained in England, which was four years,

326 The Works of [1780

without any apparent alteration. I left England
in August, 1762, and arrived at Philadelphia in Octo-
ber the same year. In a few weeks after my arrival,
being desirous of showing your magnets to a philo-
sophical friend, I found them so tight in the box that
it was with difficulty I got them out; and constantly,
during the two years I remained there, viz., till
November, 1764, this difficulty of getting them out
and in continued. The little shutter too, as wood
does not shrink lengthways of the grain, was found
too long to enter its grooves, and, not being used,
was mislaid and lost; and I afterwards had another
made that fitted.

In December, 1764, I returned to England, and
after some time I observed that my box was become
full big enough for my magnets, and too wide for my
new shutter, which was so much too short for its
grooves that it was apt to fall out, and to make it
keep in I lengthened it by adding to each end a little
coat of sealing-wax.

I continued in England more than ten years, and
during all that time, after the first change, I per-
ceived no alteration. The magnets had the same
freedom in their box, and the little shutter continued
with the added sealing-wax to fit its grooves, till
some weeks after my second return to America.

As I could not imagine any other cause for this
change of dimensions in the box, when in the differ-
ent countries, I concluded, first generally, that the air
of England was moister than that of America. And
this I supposed an effect of its being an island, where
every wind that blew must necessarily pass over

1780] Benjamin Franklin 327

some sea before it arrived, and of course lick up some
vapor. I afterwards indeed doubted whether it
might be just only so far as related to the city of Lon-
don, where I resided, because there are many causes
of moisture in the city air which do not exist to the
same degree in the country, such as the brewers' and
dyers' boiling caldrons, and the great number of pots
and tea-kettles continually on the fire, sending forth
abundance of vapor, and also the number of animals
who by their breath continually increase it ; to which
may be added, that even the vast quantity of sea
coals burnt there do, in kindling, discharge a great
deal of moisture.

When I was in England the last time, you also
made for me a little achromatic pocket telescope;
the body was brass, and it had a round case (I think
of thin wood) covered with shagreen. All the while
I remained in England, though possibly there might
be some small changes in the dimensions of this case,
I neither perceived nor suspected any. There was
always comfortable room for the telescope to slip
in and out. But soon after I arrived in America,
which was in May, 1775, the case became too small
for the instrument. It was with much difficulty and
various contrivances that I got it out, and I could
never after get it in again during my stay there,
which was eighteen months. I brought it with me
to Europe, but left the case as useless, imagining
that I should find the continental air of France as
dry as that of Pennsylvania, where my magnet-box
had also returned a second time to its narrowness,
and pinched the pieces, as heretofore, obliging me,

328 The Works of [1780

too, to scrape the sealing-wax off the ends of the
shutter.

I had not been long in France before I was sur-
prised to find that my box was become as large as it
had always been in England; the magnets entered
and came out with the same freedom, and, when in, I
could rattle them against its sides ; this has continued
to be the case without sensible variation. My habi-
tation is out of Paris, distant almost a league, so that
the moist air of the city cannot be supposed to have
much effect upon the box. I am upon a high, dry
hill, in a free air, as likely to be dry as any air in
France. Whence it seems probable that the air of
England in general may, as well as that of London,
be moister than the air of America, since that of
France is so, and in a part so distant from the sea.

The greater dryness of the air in America appears
from some other observations . The cabinet work for-
merly sent us from London, which consisted in thin
plates of fine wood glued upon fir, never would stand
with us; the veneering, as those plates are called,
would get loose and come off; both woods shrinking,
and their grains often crossing, they were for ever
cracking and flying. And in my electrical experi-
ments there, it was remarkable that a mahogany
table, on which my jars stood under the prime
conductor to be charged, would often be so dry, par-
ticularly when the wind had been some time at
northwest, which with us is a very drying wind, as to
isolate the jars, and prevent their being charged till
I had formed a commimication between their coat-
ings and the earth. I had a like table in London,

1780] Benjamin Franklin 329

which I used for the same purpose all the time I
resided there; but it was never so dry as to refuse
conducting the electricity.

Now what I would beg leave to recommend to you,
is, that you would recollect, if you can, the species of
mahogany of which you made my box, for you know
there is a good deal of difference in woods that go
under that name; or, if that cannot be, that you
would take a number of pieces of the closest and fin-
est grained mahogany that you can meet with, plane
them to the thinness of about a line, and the width
of about two inches across the grain, and fix each
of the pieces in some instrument that you can con-
trive, which will permit them to contract and dilate,
and will show, in sensible degrees, by a movable hand
upon a marked scale, the otherwise less sensible
quantities of such contraction and dilatation. If
these instruments are all kept in the same place while
making, and are graduated together while subject
to the same degrees of moisture or dryness, I appre-
hend you will have so many comparable hygrometers
which, being sent into different countries, and con-
tinued there for some time, will find and show there
the mean of the different dryness and moisture of
the air of those countries and that with much less
trouble than by any hygrometer hitherto in use.
With great esteem, I am, dear sir, your most obedient
and most humble servant,

B. Franklin.

330 The Works of [1780

DCCCCXXIX

TO COUNT DE VERGENNES

Passy, 22 Novembre, 1780.

Monseigneur: — M. de Chaumont m'ayant pro-
cure par pure bonne volonte des etoffes poui' I'ha-
billement des troupes americaines, me demande
aujourd'huy que je lui assure le remboursement en
France des lettres de change que je lui ai promises
sur le Congres, et dont je ne doute nuUement qu'il y
sera fait honneur. J'ai I'honneur de mettre sous les
yeux de votre Excellence la lettre que M. de Chau-
mont m'a ecrite k ce sujet, pour la supplier de m'aider
s'il est possible a donner kM.de Chaumont les as-
surances qu'il me demande.

Je suis avec respect, monseigneur, votre tr^s hum-
ble et tres obeissant serviteur,

B. Franklin.

DCCCCXXX

FROM COUNT DE VERGENNES

Versailles, 26 November, 1780.

Sir: — I have received the letter which you did
me the honor to write me on the 19th instant, and
with it the resolutions of Congress, ordering drafts
upon you to the amotmt of about one million four
hundred thousand livres. You can easily imagine
my astonishment at your request of the necessary
funds to meet these drafts, since you perfectly well
know the extraordinary efforts which I have made

1780] Benjamin Franklin 331

thus far to assist you and to support your credit;
and especially since you cannot have forgotten the
demands you lately made upon me. Nevertheless,
sir, I am very desirous of assisting you out of the
embarrassed situation in which these repeated drafts
of Congress have placed you ; and for this purpose I
shall endeavor to procure for you, for the next year,
the same aid that I have been able to furnish in the
course of the present. I cannot but believe sir, that
Congress will faithfully abide by what it now promises
you, that in future no drafts shall be made upon you,
tmless the necessary fimds are sent to meet them. I
have the honor to be, sir, with great sincerity, etc.,

De Vergennes.

DCCCCXXXI

EXTRACT FROM THE INSTRUCTIONS TO B. FRANKLIN,
ESQ., MINISTER PLENIPOTENTIARY FROM THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AT THE COURT OF
FRANCE

In Congress, 28 November, 1780.

You will give Col. Palfrey, lately Paymaster-
General for our armies, and now our Consul in
France,^ all the support which is necessary for the
exercise of his consular functions, as well as for the
effectual execution of the special authority and in-
structions which he will communicate. The suffer-
ings of our army for want of the clothing and arms,
which the grant of his most Christian Majesty and

' Col. Palfrey died on his passage out.

332 The Works of [1780

your own despatches gave us reason to expect, and
the absolute and increasing necessity of their being
immediately forwarded to give efficacy to our future
operations, will sufficiently impress upon you the
dangerous consequences of a further disappointment.

With respect to the loan we foresee that the sum
which we ask will be greatly inadequate to our wants.
We wish, however, to depend as much as possible on
our internal exertions.

You are hereby empowered to pledge the faith of
the United States by executing such securities or
obligations for the payment of the money as you
may think proper ; and also that the interest shall
not be reduced, nor the principal paid, during the
term for which the same shall have been borrowed,
without the consent of the lenders or their repre-
sentatives.

You are to stipulate for the payment of both prin-
cipal and interest in specie.

The loan must prove ineffectual unless the specie
is actually remitted. Experience has shown that
the negotiation of bills is attended with unsup-
portable loss and disadvantage. His most Christian
Majesty, we are persuaded, will see in the strongest
light the necessity of despatching an effective naval
armament to the American seas. This is a measure
of such vast moment that your utmost diligence will
be employed to give it success. By such a convey-
ance the specie may be remitted in different ships
of war with a prospect of safety.

1780] Benjamin Franklin 333

DCCCCXXXII

FROM JOHN ADAMS

Amsterdam, 30 November, 1780.

Sir: — I was duly honored with your letter of the
8th of October by Mr. Searle. I thank you, sir, for
enclosing the resolution of Congress respecting my
salary and Mr. Dana's. I wish I could see a prospect
of relieving you from this burden, as well as that of
the bills of exchange drawn upon Mr. Laurens; but
at present there is not a prospect of obtaining a shil-
ling. What turn affairs may take, it is impossible to
foresee. Some gentlemen tell me that a few months,
or indeed weeks, may produce events which will
open the purses to me ; but I think that our want of
credit here is owing to causes that are more perma-
nent. I never had any just idea of this country until
I came here ; if, indeed, I have now. I have received
money of the house of Homeca, Fizeau, & Grand, on
account of Mr. F. Grand of Paris, for my subsistence ;
and, if you have no objection, I will continue in this way.

Mr. Searle 's conversation is a cordial to me. He
gives a charming, sanguine representation of our
affairs, such as I am very well disposed to believe,
and such as I should give myself, if interrogated,
according to the best of my knowledge. But we
have a hard conflict to go through yet.

The correspondence you mention between his
Excellency the Count de Vergennes and me, I trans-
mitted regularly to Congress in the season of it from
Paris, and other copies since my arrival in Amster-
dam, both without any comments.

334 The Works of [1780

The letter I mentioned I believe was from your
Excellency to M. Dumas, who informs me that there
has been none to the Grand Pensionary but the one
which your Excellency wrote when I was at Passy,
which I remember very well. The republic, it is
said, for it is hard to come at the truth, have on the
one hand acceded to the armed neutrality, and on
the other have disavowed the conduct of Amster-
dam. This, it is hoped, will appease all nations for
the present, and it may for what I know. We shall
see. I should be the less surprised at Great Britain's
treating the United Provinces like an English colony,
if I did not every day hear the language and senti-
ments of English colonists. But, if she treats all her
colonies with equal tyranny, it may make them all
in time equally independent.

A gentleman here has received a commission from
England to hire as many vessels as he possibly can,
to carry troops to America. This I have certain
information of. It is also given out that Sir Joseph
Yorke has demanded and obtained permission 01
the States to do it; but this, I believe, is an English
report. It is also said that the burgomasters of the
city have signified abroad that it would be disagree-
able if anybody should hire the ships. But this may
be only bruit. It shows the English want of shipping,
their intention to send troops, and their cunning to
get away from this nation both their ships and sea-
men. I have the honor to be, etc.,

John Adams.

1780] Benjamin Franklin 335

DCCCCXXXIII

TO MR. SEARLE

Passy, 30 November, 1780.

Dear Sir: — I received your kind letter of the 20th,
and am very sensible of your friendship. Arnold's
baseness and treachery is astonishing. I thank you
for the account you give me of his preceding conduct,
which I never knew before, and shall make a proper
use of. ' I have just received a very particular ac-
count of his plot, which is too long to transcribe by
this post, but you will see it by next. In the mean-

I Brigadier-General Arnold had been wounded at the siege of Quebec,
and being only fit for a sedentary command was placed in command of
the new fortifications at West Point, then a point of the most critical
military importance. Though he had rendered his coimtry dis-
tinguished services in the field, he was a man of extravagant habits,
which he insisted upon indulging without regard to his resotirces or his
engagements. He was court-martialled by direction of Congress and
ordered to be reprimanded by the Commander-in-Chief for abusing his
powers while stationed at Philadelphia. Stung by what he professed
to consider the ingratitude of his cotmtry and driven to desperation
by his creditors, he allowed himself to be beguiled into negotiations
with Sir Henry Clinton, to betray West Point to him. He was to
receive for this service, according to the original contract, ;^3 0,000 and
the rank of brigadier-general in the British army. Major Andr6, one
of Sir Henry Clinton's staff, and the agent through which this treason
was negotiated, was captured inside the American lines, with the com-
promising information which Arnold had furnished him concealed in
his boots. He was tried and convicted as a spy and hung on the 2d of
October, 1780. Arnold escaped, was made a brigadier-general in the
British army, and afterwards served against his countrymen in Virginia.
The British officers showed great repugnance to serving with him and
treated him with merited contempt. His vices precipitated him into
an abyss of troubles, and he ended his days in poverty and disgrace.
Arnold was the only officer in the American army of the Revolution
who proved unfaithful to the cause of independence and turned his
sword against his compatriots. {See letter to Lafayette dated May
14, 1781.) — Editor.

336 The Works of [1780

time Mr. Adams will communicate to you an extract
of a comfortable letter to me from Newport. General
Washington was at Bergen, near New York, the 19th
October. I hope your fears that there may be Ar-
nolds at Paris are groundless. But in such time one
cannot be too much on one's guard, and I am obliged
to you for the caution.

With great esteem I have the honor to be, dear
sir, etc., B. Franklin.

DCCCCXXXIV

TO THE PRESIDENT OF CONGRESS

Passy, 2 December, 1780.

Sir: — ^The many mutual advantages, that must
arise from carrying into execution the proposition
already communicated to Congress of furnishing pro-
visions to the king's forces in America, to be paid
for here, have, I make no doubt, already induced
them to begin that operation. But, as the propo-
sition has lately been renewed to me, on occasion
of my requesting further aids of money, to answer
the unexpected drafts drawn upon me, ordered by
the resolutions of May and August last, which drafts
it is absolutely necessary I should find funds to pay ;
and as the Congress have long desired to have the
means of forming funds in Europe, and an easier,
cheaper, and safer method cannot possibly be con-
trived; and as I see, by the Journals of February,
that the several States were to furnish provisions
in quantities, instead of supplies of money, whereby

1780] Benjamin Franklin 337

much will be in the disposition in Congress, I flatter
myself that they will not disapprove of my engaging
in their behalf with the minister of the finances here,
that they will cause to be delivered for the king's
land and sea forces in North America such provisions
as may be wanted from time to time, to the amount
of fotir hundred thousand dollars, the said provisions
to be furnished at the current prices, for which they
might be bought with silver specie.

I have constantly done my utmost to support the
credit of Congress, by procuring wherewith punctu-
ally to pay all their drafts, and I have no doubt of
their care to support mine in this instance by ivl-
filling honorably my engagement; in which case, re-
ceipts in due form should be taken of the person to
whom the provisions are delivered in the several
States, and those receipts sent to me here. With
great respect, etc., B. Franklin.

P. S. — This value, four hundred thousand dollars,
is to be considered as exclusive of any provisions al-
ready furnished; but the receipts for those should
also be sent me, if not paid for there.

DCCCCXXXV

TO JAMES LOVELL

Passy, 2 December, 1780.

Sir : — I duly received your several favors of August
the 15th and September the yth, with the resolves of
Congress for drawing on me bills extraordinary, to

33^ The Works of [1780

the amount of near three hundred thousand dollars.
To keep up the credit of Congress, I had already en-
gaged for those drawn on Mr. Laurens. You cannot
conceive how much these things perplex and distress
me ; for, the practice of this government being yearly
to apportion the revenue to the several expected ser-
vices, any after-demands made, which the treasury is
not furnished to supply, meet with great difficulty,
and are very disagreeable to the ministers. To
enable me to look these drafts in the face, I have
agreed to a proposal contained in the enclosed letter
to the President, of furnishing provisions to the
king's forces in America, which proposal I hope will
be approved and executed, and that the Congress
will strictly comply with the assurance you have
given me, not to draw on me any more without first
knowing that they have funds in my hands.

I wrote to you more fully by Capt. Jones. He
sailed some time since in the Ariel, but met with a
severe storm that entirely dismasted him, and obliged
him to put back for France. He has been long re-
fitting, but will sail again soon. Every thing goes
well here. With great esteem, etc.,

B. Franklin.

DCCCCXXXVI

TO REV. DR. COOPER, BOSTON

Passy, 2 December, 1780.

Reverend and Dear Sir: — I received your kind
letter of the 8th of September, and am much obliged

lySo] Benjamin Franklin 339

by the intelligence it contained. Please make my
compliments of congratulation acceptable to Mr.
Hancock on his being chosen the first governor of
his free countrymen. I am persuaded he will fill
the seat with propriety and dignity.

Dr. Lee's accusation of Capt. Landais for ixisanity
was probably well founded ; as in my opinion would
have been the same accusation, if it had been brought
by Landais against Lee ; for though neither of them
are permanently mad, they are both so at times ; and
the insanity of the latter is the most mischievous.

Your little grandson is a fine boy, behaves gen-
teelly, and takes his learning admirably. Mr. Adams
being gone to Holland, has left him in my care. He
does not seem well satisfied with his school ; and the
master and mistress complain of his being turbulent
and factious and having in him too much of the in-
surgent. I give him occasionally my best advice,
and I hope those little unpleasantnesses will by de-
grees wear off. I have paid his last quarter.

The English in a late memorial have threatened
the Dutch with much insolence. Some imagine it
must produce a war. Others, relying on the Bata-
vian phlegm and patience, think it will pass over.
Holland has, however, at length acceded to the armed
neutrality.

At the request of the Abbe de Raynal I send you
the enclosed ; and I wish you or Mr. Bowdoin would
answer the questions.

I beg the continuance of your useful letters. I
shall soon write to you more fully; remaining with
the most perfect esteem, dear sir, etc.

340 The Works of [1780

DCCCCXXXVII

TO CHARLES W. F. DUMAS

Passy, 3 December, 1780.

Dear Sir: — I have before me yours of the 9th and
1 6th of November, which I think are the last I re-
ceived from you. With regard to the augmentation
of your salary, I would not have you place too great
a dependence on it, lest a disappointment should
thereby be rendered more afflicting.

If a good peace were once established, we should
soon be richer, and better able to reward those that
serve us. At present the expense of the war hangs
heavy on the United States, and we cannot pay like
old and rich kingdoms. Mr. William Lee has, as you
observe, acted very imprudently in that affair; but
perhaps some good may come of it.

Mr. Adams has written to me for a copy of a letter

I formerly wrote to . If you have such a one

please to give it to him. I imagine that he rather
means a letter I wrote to you, in which I represented
our girl as a jolly one, and who would be a good
fortune in time, etc. I have no copy of that. If
you still have that letter, please to give Mr. Adams a
copy of that also.

I wish much to see the answer that their High
Mightinesses will give to the insolent memorial pre-
sented by Sir Joseph Yorke. If they comply with it,
and punish or censure the Pensionary of Amsterdam,
I shall think it a pierre de touche for the Stadtholder,
as well as for the King of England ; and that neither
Mr. Adams will be safe at Amsterdam, nor our ships

1780] Benjamin Franklin 34 1

in any port of Holland. Let me therefore know, by
the earliest means, the turn this affair is like to take,
that I may advertise our government and our mer-
chants, I am, etc.,

B. Franklin.

DCCCCXXXVIII

TO THE PRESIDENT OF CONGRESS

Passy, 3 December, 1780.

Sir: — I duly received the letter your Excellency
did me the honor of writing to me on the 1 2th July
past, by Mr. Searle, and have paid the bills drawn
on me by order of Congress, in favor of the Presi-
dent and Council of Pennsylvania, for one thousand
pounds sterling, which were presented by him. He
is at present in Holland.

The news of Mr. Laurens having been taken must
have reached you long since; he is confined in the
Tower, but of late has some more liberty for taking
air and exercise than first was allowed him. Certain
papers found with him, relating to the drafts of a
treaty proposed in Holland, have been sent over to
the Stadtholder, who laid them before their High
Mightinesses, who communicated them to the gov-
ernment of the city of Amsterdam, which justified
the transaction. This has drawn from England a
memorial, delivered by Sir Joseph Yorke, demand-
ing, that the Pensionary and magistrates of that city
should be punished, and declaring, that the king will
resent a refusal of the States to comply with this

342 The Works of [1780

demand. What answer will be given to this inso-
lent memorial we do not yet know. But I hear it
has produced much displeasure in Holland; and it
is thought to have occasioned a more prompt ac-
cession to the armed neutrality, which had before
met with obstructions from the English party there.

We have met with a variety of unaccountable
delays and difficulties in the affair of shipping the
clothing and stores. The Alliance went away with-
out taking her part. The Ariel sailed, but met with
a storm at sea that dismasted her, and obliged her to
return to France. She is nearly again ready to sail.
Mr. Ross, with his cargo of clothes in the Duke of
Leinster, sailed under convoy of the Ariel, but did
not return with her, and I hope may get safe to
America. The great ship we hired to come to
L 'Orient and take in the rest of what we had to send,
has been long imexpectedly detained at Bordeatix.
I am afraid the army has suffered for want of clothes ;
but it has been as impossible for me to avoid, as it
was to foresee, these delays.

The late Minister of the Marine here, M. de Sar-
tine, is removed, and his place supplied by M. le Mar-
quis de Castries. But this change does not affect the
general system of the court, which continues favor-
able to us.

I have received a copy of the resolutions of Con-
gress of the 19th of May, and the 9th, 15th, 23d, and
30th of August, directing bills to be drawn on me for
near three hundred thousand dollars. I shall accept
the bills, hoping the Congress will approve of, and
readily comply with, the proposition contained in a

i78o] Benjamin Franklin 343

letter to your Excellency, accompanying this, dated
the 2d instant. Probably an answer may arrive here
before many of those bills shall become due, as few
of them are yet arrived. If that answer ratifies the
agreement I have made, I shall have no difficulty in
finding means to pay the rest. If not, I shall scarce
be able to bear the reproaches of merchants, that I
have misled them to their loss by my acceptations,
which gave a promise of payment that, not being
fulfilled, has deranged their affairs ; to say nothing of
the power I am told the Consul 's Court has here over
the persons, even of ministers, in the case of bills of
exchange. Let me, therefore, beg your Excellency to
use your endeavors with Congress, that this matter
may be immediately attended to.

Mr. Jay, no doubt, has acquainted you with his
difficulties respecting the drafts upon him. I am
sorry I cannot extricate him, but I hope he will still
find means.

The Mars, an armed ship belonging to the State of
Massachusetts, in her way to France, took and sent to
New England a Portuguese ship bound to Cork with
salt, belonging to some merchants there. The Por-
tuguese captain, who is brought in here, complains
heavily of ill usage and plunder, besides taking his
vessel ; and the ambassador of that nation has com-
municated to me these complaints, together with all
the papers proving the property of the vessel, etc.,
representing at the same time the good disposition of
the queen towards our States, and his wishes that
nothing might lessen it, or tend to prevent or delay
a complete good understanding between the two

344 The Works of [1780

nations. I advised that the owners should send over
their claim, and empower some person to prosecute
it, in which case I did not doubt our courts would do
them justice. I hope the Congress may think fit to
take some notice of this affair, and not only forward
a speedy decision, but give orders to our cruisers not
to meddle with neutral ships for the future, it being
a practice apt to produce ill blood, and contrary to
the spirit of the new league, which is approved by all
Europe; and the English property found in such
vessels will hardly pay the damages brought on us by
the irregular proceedings of our captains in endeavor-
ing to get at such property. With the greatest re-
spect, I have the honor to be, etc.,

B. Franklin.

DCCCCXXXIX

TO MR. JONATHAN WILLIAMS

Passy, 27 December, 1780.

Dear Cousin: — I received yours of the 19th, ac-
quainting me with your draft in favor of M. de Chau-
mont for 428,33oLs. The exigencies of his affairs
had before induced me to give him, under a guaranty
of the minister, a credit with M. Grand for 400,000,
payable quarterly in the ensuing year, which M. G.
discounted for him. I have also since the second
determination against him at Nantes accepted his
drafts for 2oo,oooLs. on account of the freight, on
his engagement to return me that sum, if the ship
does not arrive at L'Orient, which bills I suppose he
has discounted likewise; so he goes on paying his

1780] Benjamin Franklin 345

acceptances of your drafts. He is not naturally in-
clined to chicaneries, but his embarrassments have
made him say and do things inconsistent with his
character, which I only mention as a caution to you,
not to go out of your depth in business, for the best
swimmer may be seized with a cramp. You have
been reflected on a little for your delay in sending
the invoice or amoimt of the cloths; pray send the
charges as soon as possible.

The English have declared war against Holland.
Therefore miss no opportunity of sending advice of
it to America.

I am ever your affectionate uncle,

B. Franklin.

DCCCCXL

FRAGMENT OF A DIARY ^

Dec. 18, 1780. — Gave an order to Major Brough-
ton, of Marblehead, a returning prisoner, for 5 louis,
to help him down to a seaport.

Certified Capt. James La Clause's commission and
other American papers.

Wrote to Mr. Hodgson, London, that I had re-
ceived his account of the expenditure of the ;^ioo on
the prisoners, and promised him £iso more.

Gave a letter of recommendation of I'Abbe Robin
to Mr. Williams, of Boston, and sent it after him by
an officer, who is to go if he can in the Ariel. Sent
by the same person some newspapers to Congress.

Consented in conversation with Mr. Grand that

■ Endorsed: "Part of Journal, 1780."

346 The Works of [1780

Mr. Williams, on being put in possession of the poli-
cies of insurance of the ship Marquis de Lafayette,
for 200,000 livres, should draw on me for the freight
to that amount.

Mr. Chaumont writes, pressing an advance of the
money on security.

Replied that if the security was such as the Con-
gress banker approved of, I would advance the sum.

Heard that transports are taking up here for
America, and that bank bills in England had been
counterfeited to a great amount.

Dec. 19th. — Went to Versailles at M, Vergennes';
much was said to me in favor of M. de Chaumont 's
demand. It was owned that he had been wrong
in demanding as a right what he ought to have asked
as a favor; but that affairs among friends should
not be transacted with rigor, but amicably and with
indulgent allowances. I found I had been repre-
sented as unkindly exact in the business. I promised
to do all in my power to make it easy to Mr. Chau-
mont. He came to me in the evening after my re-
turn ; but with much heat against Mr. Grand, which
I endeavored to allay, as it was really very unjust.
Offered him to accept his bills drawn on me, as
the operation through Mr. Williams at Nantes would
take too much time to suit with his exigencies. He
said he would consult with his banker. Exclaimed
much against the judgment at Nantes, etc.

Requested Mr. Grand to transfer out of the public
cash the amount of the several balances of my private
accounts with the Congress, and give me credit for
the same in my particular account.

i78o] Benjamin Franklin 347

Dec. 2oth. — Certified or as they call it here legal-
ized the papers relative to the taking a Portuguese
ship by the Mars of Boston, and sent them to the
Porto' ambass.

Accepted M. de Chaumont's drafts dated Novem-
ber lo for the 200,000 livres freight at 4 usances, and
he gave me his engagement to return the money in
case the ship Marquis de Lafayette did not arrive at
L 'Orient to take in our goods.

Prince de Montbarey, Ministre de la Guerre, re-
signs. His successor not yet known.

Dec. 2ist. — Wrote to M. de Chaumont pressingly
for his account with the Congress, that it may be
settled now Mr. Deane is here.

M. de Segur succeeds the Prince de Montbarey.

Dec. 2 2d. — Received an account between Mr. Chau-
mont and Mr. Deane, which includes Congress artic
[mutilated] ; copy it, as it must be sent to Mr. Deane.

Dec. 23d. — Hear by letters from L'Orient of the
departure of Capt. Jones in the Ariel on the i8th.

Dec. 24th. — Received Gourlade & Moylan's ac-
count of fresh expenses, upward of ;^2o,ooo, by Capt.
Jones.

Two yoimg Englishmen, Scot and Williams, would
go to America ; discouraged them.

Dec. 25th. — Gave an order to Mr. Grand to remit
£150 sterling to Mr. Wm. Hodgson, London, for the
relief of American prisoners.

Received information from a good hand that the
G. Pensionaire had been with Sir J. Y. and acquainted
him that an answer would be given to his memorials,
but that it could not be precipitated contrary to the

348 The Works of [1780

constitution ; it was necessary to have the advice of
the provinces.

The S. H. has behaved well in the resolution for
arming.

The Duke A. G. C, the Pensionary of Amster-
dam, a brave, steady man.

Dec. 26th. — Went to Versailles to assist at the
ceremony of condolence on the death of the Empress
Queen. All the foreign ministers in deep mourning
— flopped hats and crape, long black cloaks, etc.
The Nuncio pronounced the compliments to the king
and afterwards to the queen in her apartments. M.
de Vergennes told me of the war declared by Eng-
land against Holland. Visited at the new Ministers
of War and Marine ; neither of them at home. Much
fatigued by the going twice up and down the palace
stairs, from the tenderness of my feet and weakness
of my knees; therefore did not go the rounds. De-
clined dining with M. de Vergennes, as inconsistent
with my present mode of living, which is simple, till
I have recovered my strength. Took a partridge
with M. de Chaumont. No news yet of Coimt
d'Estaing.

Wednesday, 27th. — Much talk about the new war.
Hear of the hurricane in the West Indies. English
fleet under Admiral Darby put into port. Wrote to
J. WilHams, at Nantes, to send advice to America by
every possible opportunity of the English declaration
against Holland.

Thursday, 28th. — Mr. Grand had some time since
carried an advance of my salary for one quarter
(/.1 5,000) out of the public monies, to my private

1781] Benjamin Franklin 349

account ; and I afterwards gave him a receipt for that
sum, which should have been mentioned before.

Friday, 29th. — Went by particular invitation to
the Sorbonne, to an assembly of the Faculty of
Physic in the College Hall, where we had the eloge
of my friend M. Dubourg and other pieces. Suffered
by the cold.

M. de Chaumont has [mutilated] J. Williams' draft
on me for /. 4 2 8, 000 on account of the cloth, but de-
clined . . . why [? I know not why] presenting it.
I ought to give him . . . [line here mutilated, the
only words legible are ''Congress,'' "above" or
"about," and "livres."]

Saturday, 30th. — Breakfasted at Mad. Brillon's.
Received of M. Grand /.4,8oo on private account,
which was put into the hands of W. T. Franklin to
pay bills and family expenses.

Sunday, 31st. — Much company at dinner; among
others, M. Perrier and M. Wilkinson, ingenious me-
chanicians. M. Romayne, of Hackinsack in the
Jerseys. No news.

Monday, Jan. i, 1781. — News that an expedition
is on foot against Jersey and Guernsey, some frigates
with transports and 2,500 men having sailed from
Granville the 26th past.

Mr. Dana is returned from Holland, which he left
the beginning of last month. Mr. Adams remains
there, who writes me Dec. ist, that there is little or
no hopes of a loan.

Tuesday, Jan. 2d. — Went to Versailles. No for-
eign ministers there but one or two ; the rest having
been there yesterday. Visited the new Secretary at

350 The Works of [1781

War, who was very polite. Wrote to M. de Castries,
Minister of the Marine. Not strong enough to go up
to M. de Maurepas. Visited M. Le Roy, and dined
with M. and Mad. de Renneval. News of disap-
pointment of the Jersey expedition. Wind and tide
contrary [mutilated; the word '' Etres" only visible]
the offices in part.

Wednesday, Jan. 3d. — Letters from Holland. The
Dutch seem not to have known on the 28th past
that war was actually declared against them. In-
formed here that the English court has sent copies
of the papers taken with Mr. Laurens to the North-
ern courts, with aggravated complaints against the
States- General ; and that the States had also sent
their justification. Important news expected by
the return of the courier.

Thursday, Jan. 4th. — Learnt that the States had
given orders for building 100 ships of war. Gave an
order on Mr. Grand [mutilated; qr. "/or"3 paying
Sabbatier's balance, the sum /.3,526 18 6 being for
carriage of the clothing.

Friday, Jan. 5th. — Signed recommendation, to the
ministers, of M. de La Neuville, officer formerly in
the American service.

Saturday, Jan. 6th — Accepted a number of loan-
office bills this day, and every day of the past week.
No news yet of Count D'Estaing, which begins to
give great uneasiness, as his fleet was not provided
for so long a voyage.

Sunday, Jan. 7th. — News of the safe arrival of
Count D'Estaing at Brest; more accounts of the ter-
rible hurricane in the West Indies. Accepted a vast

1781] Benjamin Franklin 351

number of loan-office bills. Some of the new drafts
begin to appear.

Monday, Jan. 8th. — Accepted many bills. Hear
from Holland that they had but just received news of
the declaration of war against them, and that the
English Church was burnt at the Hague, unknown
by what means.

Tuesday, 9th. — Count D'Estaing arrives at Passy.
Hear of ships arrived at L 'Orient from America.
No letters come up. Indisposed and did not go to
court.

Wednesday, loth. — Letters arrived from Philadel-
phia. Reports there of advantages gained to the
southward; and that Leslie had quitted Virginia.
Informed that my recall is to be moved for in Con-
gress. News that the troops have made good their
landing in Jersey and taken all but the castle.

Thursday, nth. — Gave Mr. Dana copies of the
letters between M. de Sartine and me concerning
Mr, Dalton's affair. Proposed to him to examine
the public accounts now while Mr. Deane was here,
which he declined.

Friday, 12th. — Sign acceptation [qr. "of"; mu-
tilated] many bills. They come thick.

Saturday, Jan. 13th. — Learn that there is a violent
commotion in Holland : that the people are violently
exasperated against the English, have thrown some
into the canals ; and those merchants of Amsterdam
who have been known to favor them, dare not appear
in the streets; that the return of their express to
Russia brings good accounts of the favorable dis-
position of the Empress.

352 The Works of [1781

Sunday, Jan. 14th. — Mr. Grand acquaints me that
he learns from Mr. Co tin, banker of M. de Chaumont,
that the Marquis de Lafayette will be stopped by
creditors of M. de Chaumont, unless 50,000 crowns
are advanced, and submitted it to my consideration
whether I had not better buy the ship. Vexed with
the long delay on so many frivolous pretences, and
seeing no end to them, and fearing to embarrass
myself still further in affairs that I do not understand,
I took at once the resolution of offering our contract
for that ship to the government, to whom I hoped it
might be agreeable to have her as a transport, as
our goods would not fill her, she being gauged at
1,200 tons. Accordingly I requested Mr. Grand to
go to Versailles and propose it to M. de Vergennes.

Monday, Jan. 15th. — Signed an authority to Mr.
Bonfield to administer [mutilated] oath of allegiance
to the United States to Mr. Vaughan.

Accepted above 200 bills, some of them new.

Mr. Grand calls on his return from Versailles, and
acquaints me that Mr. Vergennes desires the proposi-
tion may be reduced to writing. Mr. Grand has
accordingly made a draft, which he presented for my
approbation.

Tuesday, Jan. i6th. — ^Went to Versailles and per-
formed all the ceremonies, though with difficulty, my
feet being still tender.

Left the pacquets for Mr. Jay with M. de Renne-
val, who promised to send them with the next
courier.

Presented Mr. Grand's paper to M. de Vergennes,
who told me he would try to arrange that matter for

1781] Benjamin Franklin 353

me. I acquainted M. de Chaumont wit [mutilated]
step [qr. "with the step"], who did not seem to
approve of it.

Heard of the ill success of the troops in Jersey,
who were defeated the same day they landed; 150
killed, 200 wounded, and the rest taken prisoners.

Wednesday, Jan. 17th. — ^Accepted many bills and
wrote some letters.

Thursday, Jan. i8th. — Mr. Grand informs me that
he has been at Versailles and spoken with M. de
Vergennes and M. de Renneval; that the minister
declined the proposition of taking the vessel on
account of the government, but kindly offered to
advance me the /. 150,000 if I chose to pay that sum.
He brought me also the project of an engagement
drawn up by Mr. Cotin, by which I was to promise
that payment, and he and Co. were to permit
the vessel to depart. He left this paper for my
consideration.

Friday, Jan. 19th. — Considering this demand of
Messrs. Cotin & Jauge as an imposition, I deter-
mined not to submit to it, and wrote my reasons.

Relieved an American captain with five guineas to
help him to L' Orient.

Saturday, Jan. 20th. — Gave a pass to a Bristol
merchant to go to Spain. He was recommended to
me as having been a great friend to American pris-
oners. His name [nothing has been written here
apparently].

Sunday, Jan. 21st. — Mr. Jauge comes to talk with
me about the ship, and intimated that if I refused to
advance the /. 150,000 I should not only be deprived

VOL. VIII. — 23.

354 The Works of [1781

of the ship, but lose the freight I had advanced. I
absolutely refused to comply.

Monday, Jan. 2 2d. — M. Grand informs me that
Mr. Williams has drawn on me for 25,000 livres, to
enable him to pay returned acceptances of M. de
Chaumont. I ordered payment of his drafts. Re-
ceived a letter from Mr. Williams and wrote an an-
swer, which letters explained this affair. Letter
from M. de Chaumont informing me he had received
remittances from America. I congratulated him.

Tuesday, Jan. 23d. — Went to court and per-
formed all the round of levees, though with much
pain and difficulty, through the tenderness and
feebleness of my feet and knees. M. Vergennes is
ill and unable to hold long conferences. I dined
there and had some conversation with M. Renneval,
who told me I had misunderstood the proposition
of advancing the 150,000 livres, or it had not been
rightly represented to me ; that it was not expected
of me to advance more for M. de Chaumont; that
the advance was to have been made by M. de Ver-
gennes, etc. I see clearly, however, that the paper
offered me to sign by Messrs. Co tin & Co. would have
engaged me to be accountable for it. Had some
conference with the Nuncio, who seemed inclined
to encourage American vessels to come to the eccle-
siastical state, acquainting me they had two good
ports to receive us, Civitta Vecchia and Ancona,
where there was a good deal of business done, and
we should find good vente for our fish, etc. Hear I
[no words legible].

Wednesday, Jan. 24th. — A great number of bills.

1781] Benjamin Franklin 355

Visit at M. de Chaumont's in the evening; found
him cold and dry. Receive a note from Mr. Searle,
acquainting me with his [mutilated] sal [qr. dis-
missal, or arrival] from Holland on Saturday last.

Thursday, Jan. 25th. — Hear that M. de Chaumont
pays again, being enabled by his remittances [muti-
lated] bills. Holland begins to move, and gives
great encouragement [mutilated] luring. M. de L'
[mutilated] comes to see me, and demands break-
fast; chear [cheerful ?] and frank. Authorize Mr.
Grand to pay the balance of Messrs. Jay's and Car-
michael's salaries, and Mr. Digges' bill.

Friday, Jan. 26th. — Went to Paris to visit Prin-
cess Daschkaw; not at home. Visit Prince and
Princess Masserano. He informs me that he de-
spatches a messenger [a word or two obliterated] on
Tuesday. Visit Duke de Rochefoucauld and Madame
la Duchesse d'Enville. Visit Messrs. Dana and
Searle; not at home. Leave invitations to dine with
me on Sunday. Visit Comte d'Estaing ; not at home.
Mr. Turgot; not at home. Accept bills.

Saturday, Jan. 27th. — Write to Madrid and answer
all Mr. Jay's and Mr. Carmichael's letters received
during my illness.

Sunday, Jan. 28th. — Mr. Dana comes; Mr. Searle
excuses himself. Invite him for Tuesday.

Monday, Jan. 29th. — Hear of the arrival of the
Duke of Leinster, with Mr. Ross, at Philadelphia,
which gives me great pleasure, as she had much
cloth, etc., for the Congress. Despatched my letters
for Madrid.

35^ The Works of [1781

DCCCCXLI

FROM SAMUEL HUNTINGTON, PRESIDENT OF CONGRESS

Philadelphia, i January, 1781.

Sir: — You will receive herewith enclosed a letter
addressed to his most Christian Majesty, also a copy
of the same for your information, together with in-
structions of the 29 th of November and 27 th of
December for your government on the important
subject contained in the letter to the King of France ;
likewise a copy of the instructions given to Colonel
Laurens on the same subject, and a copy of the
resolution of Congress respecting the declaration
of the Empress of Russia/

By these despatches you will be informed that
Colonel Laurens is coming to France, charged with
a special commission, with your advice and influence,
to solicit the aids in money and other articles re-
ferred to in his instructions. It is probable he will
sail from America in some fifteen or twenty days
from this time. You will observe, nevertheless,
that it is the pleasure and expectation of Congress,
that you should not delay any measures for obtain-
ing the aids requested, nor wait for the arrival of
Mr. Laurens.

An estimate of the aids requested, except the
twenty-five millions of livres, you have already re-
ceived the last year; and no time ought to be lost
in forwarding such aids as may be obtained.

Your wisdom, prudence, and zeal for the prosperity

^ See the above papers in Dtplomatic Correspondence, Vol. III.,
pp. 176, 185; Vol. IX., p. 199. — Journals of Congress, October 5, 1780.

1781] Benjamin Franklin 357

of the United States render it unnecessary for me
to add any persuasives on this important subject.
I have the honor to be, etc.,

Samuel Huntington,
President of Congress.

[Letter from Congress to the King of France referred to in the preceding.]

The United States of America in Congress assembled,
to the Great, Faithful, and Beloved Friend and
Ally, Louis the Sixteenth, King of France and
Navarre.

Great, Faithful, and Beloved Friend and
Ally: — Persuaded of your Majesty's friendship and
of your earnest desire to prosecute the war with
glory and advantage to the alHance, we ought not
to conceal from your Majesty the embarrassments
which have attended our national affairs, and ren-
dered the campaign unsuccessful,

A naval superiority in the American war having
enabled the enemy, in the midst of last winter, to
divide their army and extend the war in the Southern
States, Charleston was subdued before a sufficient
force could be assembled for its relief.

With unabated ardor, and at a vast expense, we
prepared for the succeeding campaign — a campaign
from which, in a dependence upon the co-operation
of the squadron and troops generously destined by
your Majesty for our assistance, we had formed the
highest expectations. Again the enemy frustrated
our measures. Your Majesty's succors were con-
fined within the harbor of Newport, while the main

358 The Works of [1781

body of the British army took refuge in their for-
tresses and under the protection of their marine.
DecHning to hazard a battle in the open field, and
regardless of their rank among the civilized nations,
they descended to wage a predatory war. Britons
and savages united in sudden irruptions on our
northern and western frontiers, and marked their
progress with blood and desolation.

The acquisition of Charleston, with the advantages
gained in Georgia, and the defeat of a small army
composed chiefly of militia which had been hastily
collected to check their operations, encouraged the
British commander in that quarter to penetrate
through South Carolina into the interior parts of
North Carolina; and the ordinary calamities of war
were embittered by implacable vengeance. They
did not, however, long enjoy their triumph. In-
stead of being depressed, impending danger served
only to rouse our citizens to correspondent exer-
tions, and by a series of gallant and successful
enterprises they compelled the enemy to retreat
with precipitation and disgrace.

They seem, however, resolved by all possible ef-
forts not only to retain their posts in Georgia and
South Carolina, but to renew their attempts on North
Carolina. To divert the reinforcements destined
for those States, the}^ are now executing an enter-
prise against the sea-coast of Virginia, and from
their preparations at New York and intelligence
from Europe it is manifest that the four Southern
States will now become a principal object of their
hostilities.

1781] Benjamin Franklin 359

It is the voice of the people and the resolution of
Congress to prosecute the war with redoubled vigor,
and to draw into the field a permanent and well
appointed army of 35,000 regular troops. By this
decisive effort we trust that we shall be able, under
the Divine blessing, so effectually to co-operate with
your Majesty's marine and land forces as to expel the
common enemy from our country and render the
great object of the alliance perpetual. But to ac-
compHsh an enterprise of such magnitude and so
interesting to both nations, whatever may be our
spirit and our exertions, we know that our internal
resources must prove incompetent. The sincerity
of this declaration will be manifest from a short
review of our circumstances.

Unpractised in military arts and unprepared with
the means of defence, we were suddenly invaded by
a formidable and vindictive nation. We supported
the unequal conflict for years with very little foreign
aid but what was derived from your Majesty's gener-
ous friendship. Exertions uncommon even among
the most wealthy and best established governments
necessarily exhausted our finances, plunged us into
debt and anticipated our taxes, while the depreda-
tions of an active enemy by sea and land made a
deep impression on our commerce and our produc-
tions. Thus encompassed with difficulties in our
representation to your Majesty of the 14th of June,
1779, we disclosed our wants and requested your
Majesty to furnish us with clothing, arms, and am-
munition for the last campaign, on the credit of the
United States. We entertain a lively sense of your

360 The Works of [1781

Majesty's friendly disposition in enabling our minis-
ter to procure a part of these supplies, of which
through unfortunate events a very small proportion
hath arrived. The sufferings of our army from this
disappointment have been so severe that we must
rely on your Majesty's attention to our welfare for
effectual assistance.

The articles of the estimate transmitted to our
minister are essential to our army, and we flatter
ourselves that through your Majesty's interposition,
they will be supplied.

At a time when we feel ourselves strongly im-
pressed by the weight of past obligations, it is with
the utmost reluctance that we yield to the emer-
gency of our affairs in requesting additional favors.
An unreserved confidence in your Majesty and a
well grounded assurance that we ask no more than
is necessary to enable us effectually to co-operate
with your Majesty in terminating the war with glory
and success, must be our justification.

It is well known that when the King of Great Brit-
ain found himself unable to subdue the populous
States of North America by force, or to seduce them
by art to relinquish the alliance with your Majesty,
he resolved to protract the war in expectation that
the loss of our commerce and the derangement of our
finances must eventually compel us to submit to
his domination. Apprised of the necessity of foreign
aids of money to support us in a contest with a nation
so rich and powerful, we have long since authorized
our Ministers to borrow a sufficient sum in your
Majesty's dominion and in Spain and Holland on the

1781I Benjamin Franklin 361

credit of these United States. We now view the
prospect of a disappointment with the deeper con-
cern, as the late misfortunes in the southern States
and the ravages of the northern and western fron-
tiers have, in a very considerable degree, impaired our
internal resources. From a full investigation of our
circumstances, it is manifest that, in aid of our ut-
most exertions, a foreign loan of specie, at least to
the amount of twenty-five millions of livres, will be
indispensably necessary for a vigorous prosecution
of the war.

On an occasion, with which the independence of
these United States and your Majesty's glory are so
intimately connected, we are constrained to request
your Majesty effectually to support the applications
of our ministers for that loan. So essential is it to
the common cause, that we shall without it be pressed
with wants and distresses which may render all our
efforts languid, precarious, and undecisive. Whether
it sh^U please your Majesty to stipulate for this neces-
sary aid as our security, or to advance it from your
royal coffers, we do hereby solemnly pledge the
faith of these United States to indemnify or reim-
burse your Majesty, according to the nature of the
case, both for principal and interest, in such manner
as shall be agreed upon with our minister at your
Majesty's court.

We beseech the Supreme Disposer of events to
keep your Majesty in his holy protection, and long
to continue to France the blessings arising from the
administration of a Prince who nobly asserts the
rights of mankind.

362 The Works of [1781

Done at Philadelphia, the twenty-second day of
November, in the year of our Lord one thousand
seven hundred and eighty, and in the fifth year of
our independence, by the Congress of the United
States of North America.

Your faithful friends and allies.

Samuel Huntington, President.
Attest:

Chas. Thomson, Secretary.

DCCCCXLII

FROM M. DE MARBOIS, SECRETARY TO THE FRENCH
LEGATION IN THE UNITED STATES

Philadelphia, 4 January, 1781.

Sir: — I have desired Colonel Laurens to recall
me particularly to your recollection, and I have no
doubt he will faithfully do so. Still I cannot help
wishing, for my own satisfaction, to say a few words
to you of persons here, whom I know to be very
dear to you. Mr. and Mrs. Bache and their children
are in excellent health. Mrs. Bache does not yet
give up the hope of going to see you in France, and I
urge her much to make the voyage.

If there are in Europe any women who need a
model of attachment to domestic duties and love
for their country, Mrs. Bache may be pointed out to
them as such. She passed a part of the last year in
exertions to rouse the zeal of the Pennsylvania ladies ;
and she made on this occasion such a happy use of

1781] Benjamin Franklin 363

the eloquence which you know she possesses, that
a large part of the American army was provided with
shirts, bought with their money or made by their
hands. In her applications for this purpose, she
showed the most indefatigable zeal, and the most
unwearied perseverance, and a courage in asking,
which surpassed even the obstinate reluctance of the
Quakers in refusing. Rivington tried to turn her
zeal into ridicule. Her patriotism, he called super-
stition and foolish fanaticism ; he pretended that her
officiousness went beyond all bounds. In a word,
she could not have been praised more skilfully.*

This honest Rivington made a fairer hit, in pub-
lishing lately a number of intercepted letters. You
will see them in the English papers ; therefore I will
not anticipate the reflections they will lead you to
make. Congress was wise enough to take no notice
of them. The English may find there new proofs
of the wants of the allies, but they can see neither
discouragement, nor despondency, nor disaffection,
nor the least trace of coldness between these allies,
nor the shadow of a desire to draw nearer to them-
selves; and that is certainly what they would most
desire to find. I am, with great respect, sir, etc.,

De Marbois.

P. S. — ^The Chevalier de la Luzerne begs to present
you his respectful compliments. Have the good-
ness also to remember us to your grandson.

^ See two letters from General Washington to Mrs. Bache and other
ladies on this subject, in Washington's Writings, Vol. VII., pp. 376, 408.

3^4 The Works of [1781

DCCCCXLIII

TO BENJAMIN WATERHOUSE '

Passy, 18 January, 1781.

Sir: — I received your obliging letter of the i6th
past, enclosing one from my dear friend, Dr. Fother-
gill. I was happy to hear from him that he was
quite free of the disorder that had like to have re-
moved him last summer. But I had soon after a
letter from another friend, acquainting me that he
was again dangerously ill of the same malady; and
the newspapers have since announced his death.
I condole with you most sincerely on this occasion. I
think a worthier man never lived. For, besides his
constant readiness to serve his friends, he was al-
ways studying and projecting something for the
good of his country and of mankind in general, and
putting others, who had it in their power, on exe-
cuting what was out of his own reach ; but whatever
was within it he took care to do himself; and his
incredible industry and unwearied activity enabled
him to do much more than can now be ever known,
his modesty being equal to his other virtues.

I shall take care to forward his letter to Mr. Pem-
berton. Enclosed is one I have just received under
cover from that gentleman. You will take care to
convey it by some safe opportunity to London.

With hearty wishes for your prosperity and success
in your profession, and that you may be a good copy
of your deceased relation, I am your friend and hum-
ble servant, B. Franklin.

* At this time a student of medicine at Leyden.

lySi] Benjamin Franklin 365

DCCCCXLIV

TO CHARLES W. F. DUMAS

Passy, 18 January, 1781.

Dear Sir : — Since my last I have been favored by
yours of December ist, yth, 14th, 21st, 25th, and
January ist, by which you have kept me constantly
well informed of the state of affairs. Accept my
thanks. You may depend on my mentioning your
diligence and services to Congress in the manner they
merit.

Though I have been some weeks free from the
gout, my feet are still tender, and my knees feeble;
so that going up and down stairs is exceedingly diffi-
cult and inconvenient to me. This has prevented
my going much out, so that I had not the honor I
wished of waiting on the ambassador when he was
here, and paying the respects I owe him ; and he re-
turned suddenly.

I much approve of the step you took the i6th of
December, before Messrs. Adams and Searle. I re-
ceived a copy. I wondered to find that you had not
in Holland, on the 28th, received the declaration of
war, but have since learnt how it happened. Surely
there never was a more unjust war; it is manifestly
such from their own manifesto. The spirit of rapine
dictated it; and, in my opinion, every man in Eng-
land who fits out a privateer to take advantage of it,
has the same spirit, and would rob on the highway in
his own country, if he was not restrained by fear of
the gallows.^ They have qualified poor Captain

' England had declared war against Holland on the 20th of December
preceding. The immediate cause was the capture of an American

3^6 The Works of [1781

Jones with the title of pirate, who was only at war
with England; but, if it be a good definition of a
pirate, that he is hostis humani generis, they are much
more pirates than he, having already made great
progress towards being at war with all the world.
If God governs, as I firmly believe, it is impossible
such wickedness should long prosper.

You will receive this by Mr. Deane, who has a
great regard for you, and whom I recommend to your
civilities, though the gentlemen at present with you
may be prejudiced against him ; prejudices that time
will cause to vanish, by showing that they were
groundless. I enclose a package for Ley den, which
I shall be glad to hear is delivered safe, and there-
fore desire your care of it. I am, etc.,

B. Franklin.

P. S. — January 20th. — Since writing the above I
have received yours of the 1 2th instant. I am glad
to hear that the affairs of the republic have taken so
good a turn in Russia. With this you will receive
three letters for Mr. Laurens, which I request you
would forward to Mr. Adams. Be of good courage,
and keep up your spirits. Your last letter has a mel-
ancholy turn. Do you take sufficient bodily exer-
cise ? Walking is an excellent thing for those whose
employment is chiefly sedentary.

packet ship by a British cruiser, and Mr. Lavirens, late President of
Congress, on a mission to conclude a treaty between Congress and the
States-General. The papers taken from Mr. Laurens contained not
only his credentials, but disclosed also the existence of a secret treaty
of friendship and commerce executed by the representative of Congress
and the States-General two years before. The English ambassador
at The Hague was instructed to demand a disavowal of that treaty.
No answer being returned, the declaration of war followed. — Editor.

i78i] Benjamin Franklin 367

DCCCCXLV

TO MISS GEORGIANA SHIPLEY

. . . Must now be next its end, as I have com-
pleted my 75 th year I could wish to see my dear
friends of your family once more before I withdraw,
but I see no prospect of enjoying that felicity. Let
me at least have that of hearing from you a little
oftener.

I do not understand the coldness you mention of
the nights in the desert. I never before heard of
such an observation. If you have learnt what was
the design of cold and how it was observed, and what
difference between the night and the day, you will
oblige me by communicating it. I like to see that
you retain a taste for philosophical enquiries.

I received your very kind letter by Madame

[illegible in Ms.], with whom and the princess, her
mother, I am much pleased, though I have not seen
them so often as I wished, living as I do out of Paris.

I am glad to hear that you all passed the summer
so agreeably in Wales, and I felicitate you as the first
joy, on the increase of your brother's family.

Accept my thanks for your friendly verses and
good wishes. How many talents you possess!
Painting, poetry, languages, etc., etc. All valuable,
but your good heart is worth the whole.

Your mention of the summer house brings fresh to
my mind all the pleasures I enjoyed in the sweet re-
treat at Twyford: the hours of agreeable and in-
structive conversation with the amiable family at

368 The Works of [1781

table ; with its father alone ; the delightftil walks in
the gardens and neighboring grounds, — ^pleasures
past and gone forever! Since I have had your
father's picture I am grown more covetous of the
rest; every time I look at your second drawing I
have regretted that you have not given to your Juno
the face of Anna Maria, to Venus that of Emily or
Betsy, and to Cupid that of Emily's child, as it would
have cost you but little more trouble. I must, how-
ever, beg that you will make me up a complete set
of your profiles, which are more easily done. You
formerly obliged me with that of the father, an ex-
cellent one. Let me also have that of the good
mother, and of all the children. It will help me to
fancy myself among you, and to enjoy more per-
fectly in idea, the pleasure of your society. My
little fellow-traveller, the sprightly Hetty, with
whose sensible prattle I was so much entertained,
why does she not write to me ? If Paris affords any
thing that any of you wish to have, mention it. You
will oblige me. It affords every thing but peace f
Ah! when shall we again enjoy that blessing?

Next to seeing our friends is the pleasure of hear-
ing from them, and learning how they live. Your
accounts of your journeys and how you pass your
summers please me much. I flatter myself you will
like to know something of the same kind relating to
me. I inhabit a clean, well-built village situate on a
hill, in a fine air, with a beautiful prospect, about two
miles [Incomplete].

1781] Benjamin Franklin 369

DCCCCXLVI

TO DAVID BARCLAY

Passy, 12 February, 1781.

Dear Sir: — I condole with you most sincerely on
the loss of our dear friend, Dr. Fothergill. I hope
that some one that knew him well will do justice to
his memory, by an account of his life and character.
He was a great doer of good. How much might
have been done, and how much mischief prevented,
if his, your, and my joint endeavors in a certain
melancholy affair, had been attended to.' With
great respect and esteem, I am, etc.,

B. Franklin.

DCCCCXLVII

TO SIR EDWARD NEWENHAM

Passy, 12 February, 1781.

Sir: — I have received the letter you did me the
honor of writing to me the 12th ultimo. Enclosed

I The allusion here is to the negotiation which was attempted be-
tween Dr. Frankhn, Dr. Fothergill, Mr. Barclay, and Lord Howe, a
short time before Dr. Franklin left England. In a letter to Dr. Lettsom,
respecting Dr. Fothergill, dated March 17, 1783, he wrote as follows:
"Our late excellent friend was always proposing something for the
good of mankind. You will find instances of this kind in one of his
letters, which I enclose, the only one I can at present lay my hand on.
I have some very valuable ones in America, if they are not lost in the
late confusions. Just before I left England, he, in conjunction with
Mr. Barclay and myself, labored hard to prevent the coming war; but
oiu- endeavors were fnaitless. This transaction is alluded to in the first
page. If we may estimate the goodness of a man by his dispo.sition
to do good, and his constant endeavors and success in doing it, I can
hardly conceive that a better man has ever existed." — Lettsom 's
Life of Dr. Fothergill, p. 177.

ZJ*^ The Works of [1781

with this I send you the passport desired, which I
hope will be respected and effectual. With great
esteem, I have the honor to be, sir, etc.,

B. Franklin.

PASSPORT

To all Captains and Commanders of Vessels of War
belonging to the Thirteen United States of Amer-
ica, or either of them,, or to any of the Citizens of
the said States, or to any of the Allies thereof.

Gentlemen: — It being authentically represented
to me, that the worthy citizens of Dublin, touched
with the general calamities with which Divine Provi-
dence has thought fit lately to visit the West India
Islands, have charitably resolved to contribute to
their relief, by sending them some provisions and
clothing; and, as the principles of common human-
ity require of us to assist our fellow-creatures, though
enemies, when distressed by the hand of God, and
by no means to impede the benevolence of those
who commiserate their distresses and would allevi-
ate them, I do hereby earnestly recommend it to
you, that if the ship or vessel, in which the said char-
itable supplies will be sent to the said islands should
by the fortune of war fall into any of your hands,
and it shall appear to you, by her authentic papers,
that the cargo is bona fide composed of such bene-
ficent donations only, and not of merchandise in-
tended to be sold for the profit of the shippers, you
would kindly and generously permit the said vessel

1781] Benjamin Franklin 371

to pass to the place of her destination ; in doing of
which you will not only have the present and lasting
satisfaction of having gratified your own humane
and pious feelings as men and as Christians, but will
undoubtedly recommend yourselves to the favor
of God, of the Congress, of your employers, and of
your country.

Wishing you success in your cruises, I have the
honor to be, gentlemen, etc.,

B. Franklin,
Minister Plenipotentiary from the United States
at the Court of France.

DCCCCXLVIII

TO COUNT DE VERGENNES

Passy, 13 February, 1781.

Sir: — I have just received from Congress their
letter for the king, which I have the honor of putting
herewith into the hands of your Excellency. I am
charged, at the same time, to "represent, in the
strongest terms, the unalterable resolution of the
United States to maintain their liberties and inde-
pendence ; and inviolably to adhere to the alliance at
every hazard and in every event ; and that the mis-
fortunes of the last campaign, instead of repressing,
have redoubled their ardor; that Congress are re-
solved to employ every resource in their power to
expel the enemy from every part of the United States,
by the most vigorous and decisive co-operation with
marine and other forces of their illustrious ally ; that

372 The Works of [1781

they have accordingly called on the several States
for a powerful army and ample supplies of provisions ;
and that the States are disposed effectually to com-
ply with their requisitions. That if, in aid of their
own exertions, the court of France can be prevailed
on to assume a naval superiority in the American
seas, to furnish the arms, ammunition, and clothing
specified in the estimate heretofore transmitted, and
to assist with the loan mentioned in the letter, they
flatter themselves that, under the Divine blessing,
the war must speedily be terminated with glory and
advantage to both nations."

By several letters to me from intelligent persons it
appears that the great and expensive exertions of the
last year, by which a force was assembled capable of
facing the enemy, and which accordingly drew to-
wards New York, and lay long near that city, was
rendered ineffectual by the superiority of the enemy
at sea ; and that their successes in Carolina had been
chiefly owing to that superiority, and to the want of
the necessary means for furnishing, marching, and
paying the expense of troops sufficient to defend
that province. The Marquis de Lafayette writes
to me that it is impossible to conceive, without see-
ing it, the distress which the troops have suffered
for want of clothing; and the following is a para-
graph of a letter from General Washington, which
I ought not to keep back from your Excellency, viz. :
" I doubt not that yoti are so fully informed by Con-
gress of our political and military state, that it would
be superfluous to trouble you with any thing relative
to either. If I were to speak on topics of the kind,

1781] Benjamin Franklin Z7Z

it would be to show that our present situation makes
one of two things essential to us — a peace, or the
most vigorous aid of our allies, particularly in the
article of money. Of their disposition to serve us,
we cannot doubt; their generosity will do every
thing which their means will permit." They had
in America great expectations, I know not on what
foundation, that a considerable supply of money
would be obtained from Spain; but that expecta-
tion has failed, and the force of that nation in those
seas has been employed to reduce small forts in Flor-
ida, without rendering an}^ direct assistance to the
United States; and indeed the long delay of that
court, in acceding to the treaty of commerce, begins
to have the appearance of its not inclining to have
any connection with us ; so that, for effectual friend-
ship, and for the aid so necessary in the present con-
juncture, we can rely on France alone, and in the
continuance of the king's goodness towards us.

I am grown old. I feel myself much enfeebled by
my late long illness, and it is probable I shall not
long have any more concern in these affairs. I there-
fore take this occasion to express my opinion to your
Excellency, that the present conjuncture is critical;
that there is some danger lest the Congress should
lose its influence over the people, if it is found unable
to procure the aids that are wanted; and that the
whole system of the new government in America may
thereby be shaken ; that, if the English are suffered
once to recover that country, such an opportunity of
effectual separation as the present may not occur
again in the course of ages ; and that the possession

374 The Works of [1781

of those fertile and extensive regions, and that vast
.sea-coast, will afford them so broad a basis for future
greatness, by the rapid growth of their commerce,
and breed of seamen and soldiers, as will enable them
to become the terror of Europe,^ and to exercise with
impunity that insolence which is so natural to their
nation, and which will increase enormously with the
increase of their power. I am, with great respect,

your Excellency's, etc.,

B. Franklin.

DCCCCXLIX

TO COUNT DE VERGENNES

Passy, 6 March, 1781.

Sir: — By perusing the enclosed instructions to
Colonel Laurens and myself, your Excellency will
see the necessity I am under of being importunate
for an answer to the application lately made for aids
of stores and money. ^ As vessels are about to de-
part for America, it is of the utmost importance that
the Congress should receive advice, by some of them,

^ At a dinner given in Paris by the late Sir Henry Bulwer a few days
after the news reached Europe of the stirrender of Lee in 1865, Sir
Henry's brother, the late Lord Ljrtton, confessed to considerable
disappointment that the war had terminated without a dismember-
ment of the Union. He had hoped, he said, that it would have left
two or three nations instead of one, for, he added, "by the close of the
centxiry you will number near a hundred million, and you will be a
terror to Europe, ' ' using singularly enough the very expression employed
here by Franklin in forecasting the danger to the Old World of allowing
the colonies to remain dependencies of England. — Editor.

2 For a history of Colonel John Laurens's mission to France, see
Diplomatic Correspondence, Vol. IX., pp. 195-249.

1781] Benjamin Franklin 375

of what may or may not be expected. I therefore
earnestly entreat your Excellency to communicate
to me, as soon as possible, the necessary informa-
tion. With sincere esteem, I am, etc.,

B. Franklin.

DCCCCL

TO FELIX NOGARET

Passy, 8 March, 1781.

Sir: — I received the letter you have done me the
honor of writing to me the 2d instant, wherein, after
overwhelming me with a flood of compliments, which
I can never hope to merit, you request my opinion
of your translation of a Latin verse that has been
applied to me.' If I were, which I really am not,

' Alluding to the Latin line, which was first applied to Dr. Franklin
by M. Turgot, and of which he is said to have been the author:

M. Nogaret's translation was accompanied by a letter, in which he
said:

"Eripuit coelo fulmen, sceptrumque tyrannis."

"Les Franfais, votre Excellence le S9ait, ont fait tous leurs efforts
potir traduire ce vers Latin ou Ton vous rend justice en si peu de mots,
lis ont paru aussi jaloux de transporter cet ^loge dans leur langue,
qu'ils le sont de vous posseder. Cependant personne n'a rcussi, et je
crois qu'on ne reussira pas. Car de ces detix vers, inserts comme des
meilleurs dans L' Almanack des Muses de I'annee demiere:

' Cet homme que tu vois, sublime en tous les temps,
Derobe aux dieux la f oudre et le sceptre aux tyrans ; '

le premier est de trop. Le second vers est passable. 11 serait bon, si,
au lieu de derobe, il y avait arrache. Mais ce seul vers ne sufht pas.
Le sens n'est pas plein. II faudrait tm nom ou un pronom; et ni I'un
ni I'autre n'y peut entrer; autrement le vers n'y serait plus. Aurait-on
k peu pres I'equivalent du Latin, si I'on disait:

' On I'a vu desarmer les tyrans et les dieux ' ?

" Puisque le laconisme est necessaire, voila ce que je proposerais au

376 The Works of [1781

sufficiently skilled in your excellent language to be
a proper judge of its poesy, the supposition of my be-
ing the subject must restrain me from giving any
opinion on that line, except that it ascribes too much
to me, especially in what relates to the tyrant; the
Revolution having been the work of many able and
brave men, wherein it is sufficient honor for me if I
am allowed a small share.

I am much obliged by the favorable sentiments you
are pleased to entertain of me; and I shall be glad
to see your remarks on Gay's Fan, as well as your
own poem on the same subject. With regard, I have
the honor to be, sir, etc., B. Franklin.

graveur. Les images du sceptre et de la foudre disparaissent en ap-
parence dans cette traduction; mais je pense qu'elles n'echappent
point aux yetix de la reflexion. Desarmer Jupiter, c'est Im 6ter sa
foudre. Ccelo dit beaucoup dans le Latin. Cieux ne lie rendrait point.
J'y supplee par des etres. Je ne dis pas que la physique y gagne, mais
la poesie n'y perd pas."

In reply to Dr. Franklin's answer, some time afterwards, M. Nogaret
said: "Paris est content de la traduction de votre Eripuit, et votre
portrait fait, come je I'avais prevu, la fortune du graveur."

The following is D'Alembert's translation.

"Tu vois le sage courageux,
Dont I'heureux et male genie
Arracha le tonnerre atix dieux,
Et le sceptre k la tyrannic."

Among Dr. Franklin's papers was foimd the following paraphrastic
version from an unknown hand.

"Franklin sut arr^ter la foudre dans les airs,
Et c'est le moindre bien qu'il fit a sa patrie;
Au milieu de climats divers,
Ou dominait la tyrannic,
II fit regner les arts, les moeurs, et le genie;
Et voil^ le h6ros que j'offre a I'univers."

It was likewise translated into English by Mr. Elphinston.

"He snatched the bolt from Heaven's avenging hand,
Disarmed and drove the tyrant from the land."

lySi] Benjamin Franklin 377

DCCCCLI

TO M. DE RAYNEVAL, SECRETARY TO THE COUNCIL OF

STATE

Passy, II March, 1781.

Sir : — I have examined the Ust of supphes wanted
in America, which I received yesterday from you, in
order to mark, as desired, what may be most neces-
sary to forward thither. As that hst is of old date,
and I do not know what part of it may have been al-
ready procured by other channels, and I understand
by my letters that a new list has been made out,
which is given to Colonel Laurens, and, though men-
tioned to be sent to me also, is not yet come to my
hands, I have thought it may be well for the present
to order the making of a quantity of soldiers' and
officers' clothing, equal to one third part of what has
been demanded from page 31 to page 42 inclusive;
and to collect and get ready also one third of the
other articles mentioned in the said pages, which I
have marked with a red line in the margin, the whole
to be sent by the first good opportunity.

I think it would be well also to send five thousand
more good fusils, with fifty tons of lead, and two
hundred thousand flints for fusils. If these could go
with the fleet, it would be of great service. More
powder is not necessary to be sent at present, as there
goes in the Marquis de Lafayette the remainder of
the two thousand barrels granted last year, and also
two hundred tons of saltpetre, which they will make
into powder. For the other articles that may be
wanted, as Colonel Laurens will come fully instructed,

378 The Works of [1781

as well by the list given to him, as from his own ob-
servation and experience in the army, and from the
information he will receive from General Washington,
with whom and the Marquis de Lafayette he was to
consult before his departure, I conceive it will be best
to wait a little for his arrival.

I return the lists, and, having by some unaccount-
able accident mislaid and lost the paper you gave me,
containing what Coimt de Vergennes said to me yes-
terday, I must beg the favor of you to repeat it, and
send it by the bearer. I am ashamed to give you this
trouble, but I wish to be exact in what I am writing
of it to Congress. With the greatest esteem, etc.,

B. Franklin.

DCCCCLII

TO THE PRESIDENT OF CONGRESS

Passy, 12 March, 1781.

Sir: — I had the honor of receiving on the 13th of
last month your Excellency's letter of the ist of Jan-
uary, together with the instructions of November
28th and December 27th, a copy of those to Colonel
Laurens, and the letter to the king. I immediately
drew a memorial, enforcing as strongly as I could, the
requests that are contained in that letter, and di-
rected by the instructions, and I delivered the same
with the letter, which were both well received; but,
the ministry being extremely occupied with other
weighty affairs, I obtained for some time only gen-
eral answers, that something would be done for us,

i78i] Benjamin Franklin 379

etc., and Mr. Laurens not arriving, I wrote again,
and pressed strongly for a decision on the subject,
that I might be able to write explicitly by this op-
portunity what aids the Congress were, or were not,
to expect ; the regulation of their operations for the
campaign depending on the information I should
be enabled to give.

Upon this I received a note appointing Saturday
last for a meeting with the minister, which I attended
punctually. He assured me of the king's good- will
to the United States, remarking, however, that, being
on the spot, I must be sensible of the great expense
France was actually engaged in, and the difficulty
of providing for it, which rendered the lending us
twenty-five millions at present impracticable. But
he informed me that the letter from the Congress,
and my memorials, had been under his Majesty's
consideration; and observed, as to loans in general,
that the sum we wanted to borrow in Europe was
large, and that the depreciation of our paper had
hurt our credit on this side of the water; adding,
also, that the king could not possibly favor a loan
for us in his dominions, because it would interfere
with, and be a prejudice to, those he was under the
necessity of obtaining himself to support the war;
but that, to give the States a signal proof of his
friendship, his Majesty had resolved to grant them
the sum of six millions, not as a loan, but as a free
gift. This sum, the minister informed me, was ex-
clusive of the three millions which he had before
obtained for me, to pay the Congress drafts for inter-
ests, etc., expected in the current year.

380 The Works of [1781

He added that as it was understood the clothing,
etc., with which our army had been heretofore sup-
plied from France was often of bad quality, and dear,
the ministers would themselves take care of the
purchase of such articles as should be immediately
wanted, and send them over; and it was desired of
me to look over the great invoice that had been sent
hither last year, and mark out those articles; that,
as to the money remaining after such purchases, it
was to be drawn for by General Washington, upon
M. d'Harvelay, Garde du Tresor Royal, and the bills
would be duly honored; but it was desired they
might be drawn gradually as the money should be
wanted, and as much time given for the payment
after sight as conveniently could be, that the pay-
ment might be more easy.

I assured the minister that the Congress would be
very sensible of this token of his Majesty's continued
goodness towards the United States; but remarked
that it was not the usage with us for the General to
draw, and proposed that it might be our Treasurer
who should draw the bills for the remainder; but I
was told that it was his Majesty's order. And I
afterwards understood, from the Secretary of the
Council, that, as the sum was intended for the sup-
ply of the army, and could not be so large as we had
demanded for general occasions, it was thought best
to put it into the General's hands, that it might not
get into those of the different boards or committees,
who might think themselves under a necessity of
diverting it to other purposes. There was no room
to dispute on this point, every donor having the

1781] Benjamin Franklin 381

right of qualifying his gifts with such terms as he
thinks proper,

I took with me the invoice, and, having examined
it, I returned it immediately with a letter, of which a
copy is enclosed; and I suppose its contents will be
followed, unless Colonel Laurens on his arrival should
make any changes. I hope he and Colonel Palfrey
are safe, though, as yet, not heard of.'

After the discourse relating to the aid was ended,
the minister proceeded to inform me that the courts
of Petersburg and Vienna had offered their media-
tion; that the king had answered that it would to
him personally be agreeable, but that he could not
yet accept it, because he had allies whose concurrence
was necessary ; and that his Majesty desired I would
acquaint the Congress with this offer and answer, and
urge their sending such instructions as they may
think proper to their plenipotentiary, it being not
doubted that they would readily accept the proposed
mediation, from their own sense of its being both
useful and necessary. I mentioned that I supposed
Mr. Adams was already furnished with instruc-
tions relating to any treaty of peace that might be
proposed.

I must now beg leave to say something relating to
myself, a subject with which I have not often
troubled the Congress. I have passed my seventy-
fifth year, and I find that the long and severe fit of
the gout, which I had the last winter, has shaken me

^ Colonel William Palfrey for some time Paymaster-General of the
Continental army, had been appointed Constil-General to France by
Congress, but was lost at sea on his passage.

382 The Works of [1781

exceedingly, and I am yet far from having recovered
the bodily strength I before enjoyed. I do not know
that my mental faculties are impaired — ^perhaps I
shall be the last to discover that ; but I am sensible
of great diminution in my activity, a quality I think
particularly necessary in your minister for this
court. I am afraid, therefore, that your affairs may
some time or other suffer by my deficiency. I find,
also, that the business is too heavy for me, and too
confining. The constant attendance at home, which
is necessary for receiving and accepting your bills
of exchange (a matter foreign to my ministerial
functions), to answer letters, and perform other parts
of my employment, prevents my taking the air and
exercise which my annual journeys formerly used to
afford me, and which contributed much to the preser-
vation of my health. There are many other little
personal attentions which the infirmities of age ren-
der necessary to an old man's comfort, even in some
degree to the continuance of his existence, and with
which business often interferes.

I have been engaged in public affairs, and enjoyed
public confidence, in some shape or other, during the
long term of fifty years, and honor sufficient to sat-
isfy any reasonable ambition; and I have no other
left but that of repose, which I hope the Congress will
grant me, by sending some person to supply my place.
At the same time, I beg they may be assured that it
is not any the least doubt of their success in the
glorious cause, nor any disgust received in their
service, that induces me to decline it, but purely
and simply the reasons above mentioned. And, as I

1781] Benjamin Franklin 383

cannot at present undergo the fatigues of a sea voy-
age (the last having been almost too much for me),
and would not again expose myself to the hazard of
capture and imprisonment in this time of war, I
propose to remain here at least till the peace; per-
haps it may be for the remainder of my life; and,
if any knowledge or experience I have acquired here
may be thought of use to my successor, I shall freely
commimicate it, and assist him with any influence
I may be supposed to have, or counsel that may be
desired of me.'

I have one request more to make, which, if I have
served the Congress to their satisfaction, I hope they
will not refuse me ; it is, that they will be pleased to
take under their protection my grandson, William
Temple Franklin. I have educated him from his in-
fancy, and I brought him over with an intention of
placing him where he might be qualified for the pro-
fession of the law; but the constant occasion I had
for his services as a private secretary during the time
of the Commissioners, and more extensively since
their departure, has induced me to keep him always
with me ; and indeed, being continually disappointed
of the secretary Congress had at different times in-
tended me, it would have been impossible for me,
without this young gentleman's assistance, to have

^ In a letter to the President of Congress, dated at Madrid, April
2Sth, 1781, Mr. Jay said: "I perceive Dr. Franklin desires to retire.
This circumstance calls upon me to assure Congress, that I have
reason to be perfectly satisfied with his conduct towards me, and that
I have received from him all the aid and attention I could wish or ex-
pect. His character is very high here, and I really believe that the
respectability, which he enjoys throughout Europe, has been of
general use to otu" cause and country."

384 The Works of [1781

gone through the business incumbent on me. He
has therefore lost so much of the time necessary for
law studies, that I think it rather advisable for
him to continue, if it may be, in the line of public
foreign affairs for which he seems qualified by a
sagacity and judgment above his years, and great dili-
gence and activity, exact probity, a genteel address,
a facility in speaking well the French tongue, and all
the knowledge of business to be obtained by a four
years' constant employment in the secretary's of-
fice, where he may be said to have served a kind of
apprenticeship .

After all the allowance I am capable of making for
the partiality of a parent to his offspring, I cannot
but think he may in time make a very able foreign
minister for Congress, in whose service his fidelity
may be relied on. But I do not at present propose
him as such, for though he is now of age, a few years
more of experience will not be amiss. In the mean-
time, if they should think fit to employ him as a sec-
retary to their minister at any European court, I am
persuaded they will have reason to be satisfied with
his conduct, and I shall be thankful for his appoint-
ment, as a favor to me.

My accounts have been long ready for the ex-
amination of some person to be appointed for that
purpose. Mr. Johnson having declined it, and Mr.
Dana residing at present at Paris, I requested him to
imdertake it, and to examine at the same time those
of Mr. Deane ; but he also declines it, as being unac-
quainted with accoimts. If no fresh appointment
has been made by Congress, I think of desiring Mr.

1781] Benjamin Franklin 385

Palfrey to perforin that service when he arrives,
which I hope will be approved, for I am uneasy at
the delay. With great respect, I have the honor to
be, etc., B. Franklin.

DCCCCLIII

TO THE BOARD OF ADMIRALTY

Passy, 17 March, 1781.

Gentlemen : — I received the honor of yours, dated
January the 2d, containing siuidry questions relating
to the ship Alliance, and the expedition under the
command of John Paul Jones.

I apprehend that the letters and papers sent by the
Alliance, if they came to your hands, and those which
went in the Ariel, taken together, would pretty well
inform you on most of the particulars you inquire
about; and the deficiencies might be supplied by
Captain Jones himself, and others, who were engaged
in the expedition. But, as I learn from Colonel
Laurens that his arrival was not heard of at Boston
the nth of February, though he sailed the i8th of
December, and possibly he may have miscarried, I
shall endeavor to answer as well as I can your several
queries, and will hereafter send you duplicates of the
papers that may be lost.

But I would previously remark, as to the expedi-
tion in general, that this court, having, I suppose,
some enterprise in view, which Captain Jones, who
had signalized his bravery in taking the Drake, was
thought a proper person to conduct, had soon after

386 The Works of [1781

that action requested we would spare him to them,
which was the more readily agreed to, as a difference
subsisted between him and his lieutenant, which laid
us under a difficulty that was by that means got over.
Some time passed, however, before any steps were
taken to employ him in a manner agreeable to him,
and possibly the first project was laid aside, many
difficulties attending any attempt of introducing a
foreign officer into the French marine, as it disturbs
the order of their promotions, etc., and he himself
choosing to act rather under the Commission of Con-
gress. However, a project was at length formed of
furnishing him with some of the king's ships, the
officers of which were to have temporary American
commission, which being posterior in date to his com-
mission, would put them naturally under his com-
mand for the time; and the final intention, after
various changes, was to intercept the Baltic fleet.

The Alliance was at that time under orders to
carry Mr. Adams back to America ; but the Minister
of the Marine, by a written letter requesting I would
lend her to strengthen the little squadron, and offer-
ing a passage for Mr. Adams in one of the king's
ships, I consented to the request, hoping that,
besides obliging the minister, I might obtain the
disposition of some prisoners to exchange for our
countrymen in England.

Question ist. " Whether the ships with which the
frigate Alliance was concerted in an expedition, of
which Captain John Paul Jones had the command,
were the property of private persons, and, if so, who
were the owners of those ships ? ' '

1781] Benjamin Franklin 3^7

Answer. The ships with which the Alliance was
concerted, were, ist, the Bonhomme Richard, bought
and fitted by the king, on purpose for Captain
Jones; 2dly, the Pallas, frigate; sdly, the Ven-
geance, a corvette; 4thly, the Cerf, a cutter; all be-
longing to the king, and the property of no private
person whatever, as far as I have heard or believe.

Two privateers, the Monsieur and the Granville,
were indeed with the little squadron in going out ; I
suppose to take advantage of the convoy ; but, being
on their own account, and at their own discretion,
the Monsieur quitted company on the coast of Ire-
land, and the Granville returned about the same
time to France. I have not heard that the Mon-
sieur ever claimed any part of the prizes. The Gran-
ville has made some claim, on account, not only of
what were taken while she was with the squadron,
but of the whole taken after her departure, on this
pretence, that, some prisoners being put on board
of her, and losing company, she found herself obliged
to go back with them, not having wherewith to main-
tain them, etc.; but this claim is opposed by the
other ships, being regarded as frivolous, as she was
not concerted. The claim, however, is not yet de-
cided, but hangs in the courts. These circumstances
show that these vessels were not considered as a part
of the armament. But it appears more plainly by
the concordat of the captains, whereof I send you a
copy. Who the owners were of those privateers I
have not heard. I suppose they may be the inhab-
itants of Bordeaux and Granville.

Question 2d. " Whether any agreement was made

388 The Works of [1781

by you, or any person in your behalf, with the own-
ers of the ships concerted with the Alliance in that
expedition, respecting the shares they were severally
to draw of the prizes which might be taken during
said expedition?"

Answer. I never made any such agreement, nor
any person in my behalf. I lent the vessel to the
king simply at the minister's request, supposing it
would be agreeable to Congress to oblige their ally,
and that the division, if there should be any thing to
divide, would be according to the laws of France, or
America, as should be found most equitable. But
the captains, before they sailed, entered into an
agreement, called the concordat above mentioned, to
divide according to the rules of America, as they
acted under American commissions and colors.

Question sd. "Whether the Serapis and Scar-
borough, and other captures made during said ex-
pedition, were divided among the captors, and the
distribution made according to the resolutions of
Congress, and, if not, what mode was pursued in
making the distribution?"

Answer. No division has yet been made of the
Serapis and Scarborough. It is but lately that I have
heard of the money being ready for division at
L 'Orient. I suppose the mode will be that agreed
on by the captains.

Question 4th. "What were the net proceeds of
the Serapis, Scarborough, and the other prizes taken
during the said expedition ? ' '

Answer. I have not yet heard what were the net
proceeds of the prizes, nor have I seen any account.

1781] Benjamin Franklin 389

As soon as such shall come to my hands I will trans-
mit it to you, and will endeavor to obtain it speedily.
No satisfaction has yet been obtained for the prizes
carried into Norway and delivered up by the King
of Denmark.

Question $th. "What benefit the United States
of America have received from the prisoners made
during said expedition ? ' '

Answer. I did expect to have had all the prison-
ers taken by the squadron, to exchange for Ameri-
cans in consideration of my having lent the Alliance;
and Captain Pearson engaged in behalf of the British
government by a written instrument, that those set
on shore in Holland should be considered as prison-
ers of war to the United States, and exchanged ac-
cordingly. But I was, nevertheless, disappointed
in this expectation. For, an exchange of all the
prisoners being proposed to be made in Holland, it
was found necessary at that time by the Dutch gov-
ernment, in order to avoid embroiling their state
with England, that those prisoners should be con-
sidered as taken by France, and they were accord-
ingly exchanged for Frenchmen, on the footing of
the French cartel with England. This I agreed to on
the request of the French ambassador at the Hague,
and also to avoid the risk of sending them by sea to
France (the English cruising with seven ships off the
Texel to retake them), and as it would be more con-
venient and certain for us to have an equal num-
ber of English delivered to me by France, at or
near Morlaix, to be sent over in the cartel. But
the English government afterwards refused, very

390 The Works of [1781

iinjustly, to give any Americans in exchange for
EngUsh that had not been taken by Americans. So
we did not reap the benefit we hoped for.

Question 6th. "What orders were given to Cap-
tain Landais?"

Answer. That he should obey the orders of Cap-
tain Jones.

Question jth. "What was the ground of dispute
between Captain Jones and him?"

Answer. That, when at sea together, he refused
to obey Captain Jones' orders.

Question Sth. "What were the disbursements on
the Alliance, from the time of her first arrival in
France, until she left that kingdom?"

Answer. The disbursements on the Alliance,
from the time of her first arrival in France, till the
commencement of the cruise under Captain Jones, as
appears by the accounts of Mr. Schweighauser, agent

appointed by WiUiam Lee, amounted to , which

I paid. The disbursements on her refit in Holland
were paid by the king, as were also those on her
second refit after her return to L 'Orient, as long as
she was under the care of Captain Jones. But Cap-
tain Landais, when he resumed the command of her,
thought fit to take what he wanted of Mr. Schweig-
hauser's agent, to the amount of 31,668 livres, 12 s.
3d., for which, being contrary to my orders given
to Mr. Schweighauser, on his asking them upon the
occasion, I refused to pay (my correspondence with
him will show you my reasons), and of those paid by
the king I have no account.

Question gth. " Why the Alliance lay so long at

1781] Benjamin Franklin 391

Port L 'Orient, after her arrival there from the Texel,
and in general every information in your power re-
specting the Alliance and the expedition referred to."
Answer. Her lying so long at L 'Orient was first
occasioned by the mutinous disposition of the officers
and men, who refused to raise the anchors till they
should receive wages and prize-money. I did not
conceive they had a right to demand payment of
wages in a foreign country, or anywhere but at the
port they came from, no one here knowing on what
terms they were engaged, what they had received, or
what was due to them. The prize-money I wished
them to have; but, as that could not soon be ob-
tained, I thought it wrong in them to detain the ves-
sel on that account ; and, as I was informed many of
them were in want of necessaries, I advanced twenty-
four thousand livres on account, and put it into Cap-
tain Jones' hands to relieve and pacify them, that
they might go more willingly. But they were en-
couraged by some meddling passengers to persist.
The king would have taken the prizes and paid for
them, at the rate per gun, etc., as he pays for warlike
vessels taken by his ships ; but they raised a clamor
at this, it being put into their heads that it was a
project for cheating them, and they demanded a sale
by auction. The minister, who usually gives more
when ships are taken for the king than they will pro-
duce by auction, readily consented to this when I
asked it of him ; but then this method required time
to have them inventoried, advertised in different
ports, to create a fuller concurrence of buyers, etc.
Captain Jones came up to Paris to hasten the

392 The Works of [1781

proceedings. In his absence, Captain Landais, by
the advise of Mr. Lee and Commodore Gillon, took
possession of the ship and kept her long, writing up
to Paris, waiting answers, etc.

I have often mentioned to Congress the inconven-
ience of putting their vessels under the care of per-
sons living perhaps one hundred leagues from the port
they arrive at, which necessarily creates delays, and
of course enormous expenses; and, for a remedy, I
have as often recommended the appointment of con-
suls, being very sensible of my own insufficiency in
maritime affairs, which have taken up a vast deal of
my time, and given me abundance of trouble, to the
hindrance, sometimes, of more important business.
I hope these inconveniences will now be soon re-
moved by the arrival of Mr, Palfrey.

As the ministry had reasons, if some of the first
plans had been pursued, to wish the expedition might
be understood as American, the instructions were to
be given by me, and the outfit was committed to M.
de Chaumont, known to be one of our friends, and
well acquainted with such affairs. The Marquis de
Lafayette, who was to have been concerned in the
execution, can probably acquaint you with those
reasons. If not, I shall do it hereafter. It after-
wards continued in the hands of M. de Chaumont to
the end. I never paid or received a farthing directly
or indirectly on account of the expedition; and, the
captains having made him their trustee and agent, it
is to him they are to apply for their proportions of
the captures. There may be something, though I
believe very little, coming to the United States from

i78i] Benjamin Franklin 393

the Alliance's share of a small ransom made con-
traiy to orders.

No account has been rendered to me of that ran-
som, therefore I cannot say how much; but I will
inquire about it and inform you hereafter.

Most of the colHers taken were burnt or sunk.

The ships of war taken, I understand, belong wholly

to the captors. If any particulars remain, on which

you desire information, be pleased to mention them.

I think it my duty to give you all the satisfaction in

my power, and shall do it willingly. Being with

great regard, gentlemen, etc.,

B. Franklin.

DCCCCLIV

TO WILLIAM HODGSON

Passy, I April, 1 78 1.

Dear Sir: — I received your respected favor of the
20th past, and am shocked exceedingly at the accoimt
you give me of Digges. He that robs the rich even
of a single guinea is a villain ; but what is he who can
break his sacred trust, by robbing a poor man and a
prisoner of eighteen pence given in charity for his re-
lief, and repeat that crime as often as there are weeks
in a winter, and multiply it by robbing as many poor
men every week as make up the number of near six
hundred? We have no name in our language for
such atrocious wickedness. If such a fellow is not
damned, it is not worth while to keep a devil. ^

I Mr. Hodgson had written as follows: " I have jiist received yotirs
of the 8th instant, which surprises me not a little, as by the letter

394 The Works of [1781

I am sorry you have been obliged to advance
money. I desired Mr. Grand, some time since, to
order two hundred pounds to be paid you in London.
If that is not done, draw on him for the sum of two
hundred and fifty pounds, payable at thirty days'
sight, and your bill shall be duly honored.

I enclose a copy of Digges' last letter to me, in
which he acknowledges the drafts made on me (omit-
ting one of seventy-five pounds), and pretends that
he only draws as he is drawn upon by his friends, who

enclosed I perceive the person to whom that letter is addressed has
deceived you most egregiously. He has not advanced one shilling that
has come to my knowledge. He had indeed written to Portsmouth and
Plymouth, to order a distribution of one shilling and six pence a week
to the prisoners. I was informed of it by the agents at both places;
but, although he gave those directions, he did not provide the neces-
sary funds. I thought it therefore right to caution both Mr. Wren
and Mr. Heath against advancing money, and advised them to say,
that they should be glad to serve the prisoners, but that it was just
that the money should be sent to them; and indeed I have been
obliged to reimburse to one of those persons twenty-five poimds, and
to the other twenty pounds, which they had before advanced to Mr.
Digges, and could not procvu-e the payment of; and this I did, partly
out of a bill he gave me last year on Mr. Grand for forty-eight pounds,
although twenty pounds of that sum were for money I had lent him
in the spring of 1780. I fear all is not right. He has been absent
from town some time. The last I heard of him was from Bristol,
where he was about purchasing goods for Lisbon." — London, March
20, 1781.

Extract from a letter written by Dr. Franklin to Mr. Jay, dated
Passy, August 20, 1781: "Digges, a Maryland merchant, residing in
London, who pretended to be a zealous American, and to have much
concern for our poor people in the English prisons, drew upon me for
their relief at different times last winter to the amount of four hundred
and ninety-five pounds sterling, which he said had been drawn for upon
him by the gentlemen at Portsmouth and Plymouth, who had the care
of the distribution. To my utter astonishment I have since learned
that the villain had not applied above thirty pounds of the money to
that use, and that he has failed and absconded."

1781] Benjamin Franklin 395

hand the money to the prisoners, and that those
friends are almost tired of the charitable employ-
ment, but he encourages them, etc. Be so good as
to let them know of this letter.

I wish, with you and with all good men, for peace;
proposals of mediation have been made, but the effect
is yet uncertain. I shall be mindful of your request,
and you may depend on my doing any thing in my
power that may be serviceable to you. With sincere
esteem, I am, dear sir, etc., B. Franklin.

DCCCCLV

FROM FRANCIS DANA
Hotel Valois, Rue Richelieu, Paris, 6 April, 1781.

Sir: — Having, agreeably to my instructions as
well as my own inclinations, laid before your Excel-
lency all the papers which I have received from Con-
gress relative to my mission for the Court of Russia,
and my correspondence with his Excellency the
Comte de Vergennes, in consequence of the same,
for the benefit of your good counsel ; and as you were
so kind, at my particular request, as to introduce
me to the Comte at the conference we had last Wed-
nesday upon the subject of my mission, and heard
the whole, I hope you will not think I give you any
unnecessary trouble when I request you to favor
me, in writing, with your opinion upon the following
matters. Whether, on the whole, you conceive the
Comte to have any objections to the mission itself?
Or whether you considered his reflections upon the

396 The Works of [1781

subject rather intended as cautions and advice to
me respecting the conduct he would wish me to hold
in the business ? Whether you supposed him finally
to make any real objections to my going to Russia
in the character only of a private American gentle-
man and there waiting for the favorable moment for
opening my eventual character? And whether, all
circumstances considered, your Excellency thinks
it expedient for me to proceed to St. Petersburg in
a private character only, and there to wait as above
mentioned ?

You will not, I presume, think I mean any thing
particular in my request, when I assure you I shall
likewise ask of Mr. Adams his opinion, in writing,
upon the same subject. Being directed by Congress
to consult you and him, I am desirous only to have
it in my power, in case of the death of either of you,
to show them I have done so, as well as the result
itself; and that I have paid, as I shall do, a proper
respect and attention to your opinions and advice
in the whole of this business.

I am with the greatest respect, etc.,

Francis Dana.

P. S. — I shall set off for Holland on Sunday morn-
ing, and shall cheerfully take your commands.

DCCCCLVI

TO FRANCIS DANA

Passy, 7 April, 1 781.

Sir: — I received the letter you yesterday did me
the honor of writing to me, requesting my opinion.

1781] Benjamin Franklin 397

in writing, relative to the conference you had with
his Excellency, the Count de Vergennes, last Wed-
nesday—I being present; and also as to the expedi-
ency of your proceeding to St. Petersburg; which
request I willingly comply with, as follows :

Question 1st. "Whether, on the whole, I con-
ceived the Count to have any objections to the
mission itself ? ' '

Answer. He did not make any such objections,
nor did he drop any expression by w^hich it might be
supposed he had any such in his mind.

Question 2d. "Whether I considered his reflec-
tions upon the subject to be rather intended as cau-
tions and advice to you, respecting the conduct he
wished you to hold in the business ? ' '

Answer. His Excellency expressed his apprehen-
sions that, if you went thither under a public charac-
ter before the disposition of the court was known
and its consent obtained, it might be thought im-
proper, and be attended with inconvenience; and, if
I remember right, he intimated the propriety of your
consulting the ambassador at the Hague.

Question 3d. " Whether I supposed him finally to
make any real objections to your going to St. Peters-
burg in the character only of a private American gen-
tleman, and there waiting the favorable moment of
opening your eventual character ? ' '

Answer. His objections were that, though you
should not avow your public character, yet, if known
to be an American who had been in public employ, it
would be suspected that you had such a character,
and the British minister there might exert himself to

398 The Works of [1781

procure you '' quelques d^sagr intents" — that is, cha-
grins or mortifications; and that unless you ap-
peared to have some other object in visiting St.
Petersburg, your being an American would alone
give strong grounds for such suspicions. But when
you mentioned that you might appear to have views
of commerce, as a merchant, or of curiosity, as a
traveller, etc.; that there was a gentleman at St.
Petersburg with whom some in America had a cor-
respondence, and who had given hints of the utility
there might be in having an American in Russia,
who could give true intelligence of the state of our
affairs, and prevent or refute misrepresentations,
etc, ; and that you could, perhaps, by means of that
gentleman, make acquaintance, and thence procure
useful information of the state of commerce, the
country, the court, etc., he seemed less to disapprove
of your going directly.

As to my own opinion, which you require, though
I have long imagined that we let ourselves down in
offering our alliance before it is desired, and that it
would have been better if we had never issued com-
missions for ministers to the courts of Spain, Vienna,
Prussia, Tuscany, or Holland, till we had first pri-
vately learned whether they would be received, since
a refusal from one is an actual slight, that lessens our
reputation, and makes others less willing to form a
connection with us; yet, since your commission is
given, and the Congress seem to expect, though I
think they do not absolutely require that you should
proceed to St. Petersburg immediately, I conceive
that (assuming only a private character for the

1781] Benjamin Franklin 399

present, as you propose) it will be right for you to
go, unless, on consulting Mr. Adams, you should find
reason to judge that, under the present circumstances
of the proposed mediation, a delay for some time
would be more advisable. With great esteem, and
best wishes for your success, etc.,

B. Franklin.

DCCCCLVII

FROM JOHN ADAMS

Leyden, 10 April, 1781.

Sir: — Relying on your virtues and graces of faith
and hope, I accepted the bills to the amount of ten
thousand pounds sterHng drawn in favor of Mr. Tracy.
I have received advice from Congress of more bills
drawn upon me. When they arrive, and are pre-
sented, I must write to you concerning them, and
desire you to enable me to discharge them ; for I am
sorry to say that, although I have opened a loan
according to the best plan I could devise, and the
plan and the loan seem to be countenanced by the
pubHc, yet there is httle money obtained, scarcely
enough to defray the expense of obligations and
stamps; and it is more and more clear to me that
we shall never obtain a loan here, until our inde-
pendence is acknowledged by the States. Till then,
every man seems to be afraid that his having any
thing to do in it will be made a foundation of a crim-
inal process, or a provocation to the resentment of
the mob.

400 The Works of [1781

The time is very near when some of the bills I
have accepted become payable. I must entreat
your Excellency's answer to this as soon as conven-
ient and to point out to me, whether you choose that
the house of Fizeau, Grand, & Co., or any other,
should pay the money. It is a most grievous m^orti-
fication to me, to find that America has no credit
here, while England certainly still has so much ; and
to find that no gentlemen in public life here dare
return me a visit or answer me a letter, even those
who treated me, when I first arrived here, with great
politeness. I am entreated, however, to keep this
secret, but have no motive to secrete it from you.
On the contrary, you ought to know it. I am told
that there will be great alterations very soon; but
I have seen by experience that no man in this coun-
try knows what will be on the morrow.

Let me ask the favor of you, sir, to give my best
respects to Colonel Laurens and Mr. Franklin. I
have the honor to be, with the greatest respect, sir,
etc., John Adams.

DCCCCLVIII

TO WILLIAM CARMICHAEL

Passy, 12 April, 1781.

Dear Sir: — I received your favor by M. Cabarrus,
and should have been glad if I could have rendered
him any service here. He appears an amiable man,
and expert in affairs. I have also your obliging let-
ters of the 28th of February, and the 12th and 30th

1781] Benjamin Franklin 401

of March. I thank you much for your friendly hints
of the operations of my enemies, and of the means I
might use to defeat them. Having in view at pres-
ent no other point to gain but that of rest, I do not
take their malice so much amiss, as it may further
my project, and perhaps be some advantage to you.
and are open, and, so far, honorable ene-
mies; the , if enemies, are more covered. I

never did any of them the least injury, and can con-
ceive no other source of their malice, but envy. To
be sure, the excessive respect shown me here by all
ranks of people, and the little notice taken of them,
was a mortifying circumstance; but it was what I
could neither prevent nor remedy. Those who feel
pain at seeing others enjoy pleasure, and are un-
happy, must meet daily with so many causes of tor-
ment that I conceive them to be already in a state
of damnation; and, on that account, I ought to drop
all resentment with regard to those two gentlemen.
But I cannot help being concerned at the mischief
their ill tempers will be continually doing in our
public affairs, whenever they have any concern in
them.

I remember the maxim you mention of Charles the
Fifth, Yo y el T tempo; and have somewhere met with
an answer to it in this distich :

" I and Time 'gainst any two,

Chance and I 'gainst Time and you."

And I think the gentlemen you have at present to
deal with would do wisely to guard a little more
against certain chances.

VOL. VIII. — 26.

402 The Works of [1781

The price of the Bihliotheca Hispana is too high
for me. I thank you for the Gazettes you sent me by
the ambassador's courier. I received none by the
last. I shall be exceedingly glad to receive the me-
moirs of the Sociedad Econdmica, and the works on
political economy of its founder. The Prince of
Maceran, with several other persons of his nation did
me the honor of breakfasting with me on Monday
last, when I presented the compliments you charged
me with. Mr. Cumberland has not yet arrived at
Paris, as far as I have heard.

The discontents in our army have been quieted.
There was in them not the least disposition of revolt-
ing to the enemy. I thank you for the Maryland
captain's news, which I hope will be confirmed.
They have heard something of it in England, as you
will see by the papers, and are very uneasy about it,
as well as about their news from the East Indies.
Yours affectionately, B. Franklin.^

^ On the 12th of April, 1781, Dr. Franklin was entertained in a some-
what remarkable manner, at a Fete Champetre given by the Cotintess
d'Houdetot, at Sanoy, in the valley of Montmorency, twelve miles
from Paris. The company consisted only of the different branches
of the family of the Cotmt and Countess d'Houdetot. To understand
one of the stanzas, it is necessary to know that the Countess' name was
Sophie. When the approach of Dr. Franklin's carriage was annovmced,
they all set off on foot from the chateau, and met him at the distance
of about half a mile. He was handed from his carriage by the Countess
who, upon his alighting, pronoxinced the following verses of her own
composition :

"Ame du h^ros, et du sage,
Oh liberte! premier bienfait des dieux!
H61as! c'est de trop loin que nous t'offrons des voeux;
Ce n'est qu'en soupirant que nous rendons hommage
Au mortel qtii forma des citoyens heureux."

They walked slowly to the chateau, where they sat down to a
splendid dinner. At the first glass of wine, the following stanza was

i78i] Benjamin Franklin 403

DCCCCLIX

TO JOHN ADAMS

Passy, 29 April, 1781.

I enclose you extracts of two letters ministerial,
found in the same packet with the former, written in

sung, which became the chorus of the day, accompanied by instru-
mental music:

"De Benjamin celebrons la memoire,
Chantons-le bien qu'il a fait aux mortels;
En Ameriqtte il aura des autels,
Et dans Sanoy nous buvons k sa gloire."

At the second glass, the Countess sang the following quatrain:

" II rend ses droits a I'humaine nature,
Pour I'affranchir il voulut I'eclairer,
Et la vertu, pour se faire adorer,
De Benjamin emprunta la figure."

At the third glass, the Viscoimt d'Houdetot sang:

"Guillaume Tell fut brave, mais sauvage;
J'estime plus notre cher Benjamin;
De I'Amerique en fixant le destin,
A table il rit, et c'est la le vrai sage."

At the fourth, the Viscountess sang:

"Je dis aussi, vive Philadelphie !
L'independance a de quoi me tenter;
Dans ce pays je voudrais habiter,
Quoiqu'il n'y ait ni bal ni comedie."

At the fifth, Madame de Peman :

"Tous nos enfants apprendront de leurs meres
A vous aimer, vous croire et vous benir;
Vous enseignez ce qui peut reunir
Tous les humains dans les bras d'un seul pere.'

At the sixth. Count de Tressan:

"Vive Sanoy! C'est ma Philadelphie
Lorsque j'y vois son cher legislateur;
J'y rajeunis dans le sein du bonheur,
J'y ris, j'y pois, et j'ecoute Sophie."

At the seventh, the Count d'Apche:

404 The Works of [1781

the fond behef that the States were on the point of
submitting, and cautioning the commissioners for
peace not to promise too much respecting the future

"Pour soutenir cette charte sacr6e
Qu'Edouard accorda aux Anglais,
Je sens qu'il n'est de chevalier Frangais
Qui ne desire employer son epee."

Dinner being ended, Dr. Franklin was led by the Countess, accom-
panied by the whole family, into the gardens of Sanoy, where, under a
rural arbor, he was presented by the gardener with a Virginia locust
tree, which, at the request of the company, he planted with his own
hands. The Countess at the same time repeated the following verses,
which have been engraven on a marble pillar in the neighborhood of
that tree.

"Arbre sacre, durable monument
Du sejour qu'en ces lieux a daigne faire un sage,
De ces jardins devenu romement,
Recevez-y le juste hommage
De nos voeux et de notre encens;
Et puissiez-vous dans tous les ages,
A jamais respects du temps,
Vivre autant que son nom, ses lois et ses ouvrages."

On their return, they were met by a band of music, which accom-
panied the whole family in the following song:

"Que cet arbre, blante par sa main bienfaisante,
Elevant sa tige naissante
Au dessus du sterile ormeau,
Par sa fieur odorif6rante,
Parfume I'air de cet hetireux hameau.
La foudre ne pourra I'atteindre,
EUe respectera son faite et ses rameaux;
Franklin nous enseigna par ses heureux travatxx
A la diriger ou a I'eteindre,
Tandis qu'il detrtdsait des maux
Pour la terre encore plus k plaindre."

After which they all proceeded to the chateau. Towards evening
Dr. Franklin was reconducted by the whole company to his carriage,
and, before the door was shut, the Countess pronotmced the following
complimentary verses composed by herself:

"Legislateur d'un mode, et bienfaiteur des deux,
L'homme dans tous les temps te devra ses hommages;
Et je m'acquitte dans ces lieux
De la dette de tous les ages."

1781] Benjamin Franklin 405

constitutions. They are indeed cautiously worded,
but easily understood, when explained by two court
maxims or assertions, the one of Lord Granville's,
late President of the Council, that the king is the
legislator of the colonies; the other of the present
Chancellor, when in the House of Commons, that
the Quebec constitution was the only proper constitution
for colonies, ought to have been given to them all when
first planted, and what all ought now to be reduced to.
We may hence see the danger of listening to any of
their deceitful propositions, though piqued by the
negligence of some of those European powers, who
will be much benefited by our revolution. I have
honor to be, sir, your most obedient and most the
humble servant, B. Franklin.

DCCCCLX

TO THE MARQUIS TURGOT

Passy, I May, 1781.

Sir: — I did intend, when in London, to have pub-
lished a pamphlet describing the new stove you men-
tion, and for that purpose had a plate engraved, of
which I send you an impression. But I have since
been too much engaged in affairs to execute that in-
tention. Its principle is that of a siphon reversed,
operating on air in a manner somewhat similar to the
operation of the common siphon on water. The fun-
nel of the chimney is the longer leg, the vase is the
shorter ; and as in the common siphon the weight of
water in the longer leg is greater than that in the

4o6 The Works of [1781

shorter leg, and thus in descending permits the water
in the shorter leg to rise by the pressure of the atmos-
phere ; so in this aerial siphon the levity of the air in
the longer leg being greater than that in the shorter,
it rises and permits the pressure of the atmosphere to
force that in the shorter to descend. This causes the
smoke to descend also, and in passing through burn-
ing coals it is kindled into flame, thereby heating
more the passages in the iron box whereon the vase
which contains the coals is placed, and retarding at
the same time the consumption of the coals.

On the left hand of the engraving you see the ma-
chine put together and placed in a niche built for it
in a common chimney. On the right hand the parts
(except the vase) are shown separately. If you
should desire a more particular explanation I will
give it to you viva voce whenever you please. I think
with you that it is capable of being used to advantage
in our kitchens, if one could overcome the repug-
nance of cooks to the using of new instruments and

new methods. With great respect,

B. Franklin.

DCCCCLXI

TO CHARLES F. DUMAS

Passy, 4 May, 1781.

Dear Sir: — It is so long since I heard from you,
that I begin to fear you are ill. Pray write to me,
and let me know the state of your health. I enclose
Morgan's account of his engagement with Tarleton.

1781] Benjamin Franklin 407

If he has not already received it, it may be agreeable
to our friend the gazetteer of Ley den. Every thing

goes well here, and I am ever, etc.,

B. Franklin.

DCCCCLXII

FROM MISS GEORGIANA SHIPLEY

London, 6 May, 1781.

Your dear, delightful letter made me most happy,
particularly your account of yourself, as it proves
that you are in good spirits, and pleased with your
present situation. Your " Dialogue with the Gout"
is written with your own cheerful pleasantry, and
" La belle et la mauvaise Jambe" recalls to my mind
those happy hours we once passed in your society,
where we were never amused without learning some
useful truth, and where I first acquired a taste pour
la conversation hadinante et reflechie.

It is long since I have written to my ever valued
friend; but the difficulty I find in comreying my
letters safe to Passy is the only motive for my silence.
Strange, that I should be under the necessity of con-
cealing from the world a correspondence which it is
the pride and glory of my heart to maintain.

We have spent three months in London, but leave
it to-morrow, that we may enjoy the beauties of a
late spring at Twyford. My father grows every year
fonder of that peaceful retirement; having found
his endeavors to serve his coimtry ineffectual, he
yields to a torrent which it is no longer in his power

4o8 The Works of [1781

to control. I will confess that although I love read-
ing and drawing sufficiently never to want amuse-
ment in the country, yet I have some few friends in
town from whom I shall part with regret. We live
very little in public, but a great deal with small pri-
vate societies. They are the charm of life.

I have inquired after Mr. Small, but hitherto my
inquiries have proved unsuccessful. Sir John Prin-
gle has left London, and is gone to reside wholly in
Scotland. I fear he is much straitened in his cir-
cumstances ; he looks ill, and is vastly changed from
what you remember him. Dr. Priestley is now on
a short visit to his friends in town. I find he is
settled much to his satisfaction at Birmingham,
where he has the care of a pretty numerous congre-
gation. Good Dr. Price calls on us often, and gives
us hopes of a visit to Twyford. We value him no
less on his own account, than for his steady attach-
ment to our respectable friend.

The first opportunity we have of sending a parcel
to Paris, you may expect all our shades. You
flatter us vastly by desiring them, as well as by every
expression of esteem and affection for a family who
know how to value your praise. Mr. Jones has
undertaken the care of this letter. I feel grateful
to him for giving me an opportunity of assuring
you how much I do and ever shall continue to love
you. Georgiana Shipley.

1781] Benjamin Franklin 409

DCCCCLXIII

TO COURT DE GEBELIN, PARIS ^

Passy, 7 May, 1781.

Dear Sir: — I am glad the little book ^ proved ac-
ceptable. It does not appear to me intended for a
grammar to teach the language. It is rather what
we call in English a spelling book, in which the only
method observed is to arrange the words according
to their number of syllables, placing those of one
syllable together, then those of two syllables, and so
on. And it is to be observed that Sa ki ma, for in-
stance, is not three words, but one word of three
syllables ; and the reason that hyphens are not placed
between the syllables is that the printer had not
enough of them.

As the Indians had no letters, they had no ortho-
graphy. The Delaware language being differently
spelt from the Virginian may not always arise from a
difference in the language, for strangers who learn
the language of an Indian nation, finding no ortho-
graphy, are at liberty in writing the language to use

I Antoine Court de Gebelin, born at Nismes, in 1725, of a Protestant
family, became a minister in that commtmion, first in the Cevennes,
and next at Lausanne, which, however, he quitted, together with the
clerical function, for the profession of letters at Paris, where he ac-
quired considerable reputation as an antiquary and philologist, and
was appointed to superintend one of the museums. He lost much of
his popularity, however, by his enthusiastic championship of animal
magnetism. He died at Paris, May 13, 1784. His great work is en-
titled Monde Primitif, analyse et compare avec le Monde Moderne,
nine volumes in quarto. On quitting Switzerland he gave to his sister
the principal part of his patrimony, reserving little for himself, and
depending for a maintenance upon the exercise of his talents.

" A vocabulary of the languages of one of the Indian tribe of North
America.

4IO

The Works of [1781

such compositions of letters as they think will best
produce the sounds of the words. I have observed
that our Europeans of different nations, who learn
the same Indian language, form each his own ortho-
graphy according to the usual sounds given to the
letters in his own language. Thus the same words
of the Mohawk language written by an English, a
French, and a German interpreter, often differ very
much in the spelHng; and, without knowing the
usual powers of the letters in the language of the
interpreter, one cannot come at the pronunciation of
the Indian words. The spelling book in question
was, I think, written by a German.

You mention a Virginian Bible. Is it not the Bible
of the Massachusetts language, translated by EHot,
and printed in New England about the middle of the
last century? I know this Bible, but have never
heard of the one in the Virginian language. Your
observations of the similitude between many of the
words, and those of the ancient world, are indeed
very curious.

This inscription, which you find to be Phoenician,
is, I think, near Taunton (not Janston as you write
it). There is some account of it in the old Philo-
sophical Transactions. I have never been at the
place, but shall be glad to see your remarks on it.

The compass appears to have been long known in
China, before it was known in Europe; unless we
suppose it known to Homer, who makes the prince
that lent ships to Ulysses boast that they had a spirit
in them, by whose directions they could find their
way in a cloudy day, or the darkest night. If any

17S1] Benjamin Franklin 411

Phoenicians arrived in America, I should rather
think it was not by the accident of a storm, but in
the course of their long and adventurous voyages;
and that they coasted from Denmark and Norway,
over to Greenland, and down southward by New-
foundland, Nova Scotia, etc., to New England; as
the Danes themselves certainly did some ages before
Columbus.

Our new American Society will be happy in the
correspondence you mention, and when it is possible
for me I, shall be glad to attend the meetings of your
Society ' which, I am sure, must be very instructive.
With great and sincere esteem, I have the honor to
be, etc., B. Franklin.

DCCCCLXIV

TO THE MARQUIS DE LAFAYETTE

Passy, 14 May, 1781.

Dear Sir: — You are a very good correspondent,
which I do not deserve, as I am a bad one. The
truth is, I have too much business upon my hands, a
great deal of it foreign to my function as a minister,
which interferes with my writing regularly to my
friends. But I am, nevertheless, extremely sensible
of your kindness in sending me such frequent and
full intelligence of the state of affairs on your side of
the water, and in letting me see by your letters that
your health continues, as well as your zeal for our
cause and country.

I L'Academie des Inscriptions et Belles Lettres.
The Works of [1781

I hope that by this time the ship which has the
honor of bearing your name is safely arrived. She
carries clothing for nearly twenty thousand men,
with arms, ammunition, etc., which will supply some
of your wants ; and Colonel Laurens will bring a con-
siderable addition, if Providence favors his passage.
You will receive from him the particulars, which
makes my writing more fully by him unnecessary.

You mention my having enemies in America. You
are luckier, for I think you have none here, nor any-
where. Your friends have heard of your being gone
against the traitor Arnold, and are anxious to hear of
your success, and that you have brought him to pun-
ishment. Enclosed is a copy of a letter from his
agent in England, captured by one of our cruisers,
and by which the price or reward he received for his
treachery may be guessed at. Judas sold only one
man, Arnold three millions. Judas got for his one
man thirty pieces of silver, Arnold not a halfpenny a
head. A miserable bargain! especially when one
considers the quantity of infamy he has acquired to
himself and entailed on his family.^

The English are in a fair way of gaining still more
enemies; they play a desperate game. Fortune may
favor them, as it sometimes does a dinmken dicer;
but by their tyranny in the East, they have at length
roused the powers there against them, and I do not

I The letter here referred to was from a banker in London to General
Arnold, stating that he had received from him bills to the amotont of
five thousand pounds sterling, which the banker said he had invested
in the stocks. This was supposed to be the money paid to Arnold
as the reward of his treachery. After the war, a pension was Ukewise
granted to each of his children. The banker's letter will be found on
page 414. — Editor.

i78i] Benjamin Franklin 413

know that they have in the West a single friend. If
they lose their India commerce (which is one of their
present great supports), and one battle at sea, their
credit is gone, and their power follows. Thus em-
pires, by pride, folly, and extravagance, ruin them-
selves like individuals. M. de la Motte-Piquet has
snatched from between their teeth a good deal of
their West India prey, having taken twenty-two sail
of their homeward-botmd prizes. One of our Amer-
ican privateers has taken two more, and brought
them into Brest, and two were burnt; there were
thirty-four in company, with two men-of-war of the
line and two frigates, who saved themselves by
flight, but we do not hear of their being yet got in.

I think it was a wise measure to send Colonel Lau-
rens here, who could speak knowingly of the state of
the army. It has been attended with all the success
that perhaps could reasonably be expected, though
not with all that was wished. He has fully justified
your character of him, and returns thoroughly pos-
sessed of my esteem; but that cannot and ought not
to please him so much as a little more money would
have done for his beloved army. This court con-
tinues firm and steady in its friendship, and does
every thing it can for us. Can we not do a little
more for ourselves? My successor (for I have de-
sired the Congress to send me one) will find it in the
best disposition towards us, and I hope he will take
care to cultivate that disposition. You, who know
the leading people of both countries, can perhaps
judge better than any member of Congress of a per-
son suitable for this station.
The Works of [1781

I wish you may be in a way to give your advice
when the matter is agitated in that assembly. I
have been long tired of the trade of minister, and
wished for a little repose before I went to sleep for
good and all. I thought I might have held out till
the peace; but, as that seems at a greater distance
than the end of my days, I grow impatient. I
would not, however, quit the service of the public,
if I did not sincerely think that it would be easy for
the Congress, with your counsel, to find a fitter man.
God bless you, and crown all your labors with suc-
cess. With the highest regard and most sincere
affection, I am, dear sir, etc.,

B. Franklin.

FROM gen'l Arnold's agent in London ^

Parliament Street, 30 January, 1781.

Sir: — I am honored with your several letters en-
closing bills on Harley & Drummond, to amount
of ;^5,ooo, the receipt of which I have regularly by
packet acknowledged. On the day they were paid
I invested the amount in the fund you mentioned,
and it was a very favorable time. I flatter myself
it will meet your approbation, also the mode in which
it was done.

As it is possible some directions might come from
you for disposing of the money in some other mode,
I thought it might not be so advantageous to lock it
up totally, as it might be a long while before I could

I Endorsed: "Letter from Arnold's agent, which shows the amount
of his bribe." This is the letter referred to in Franklin's letter to
Lafayette. Supra page 412.

1781] Benjamin Franklin 4^5

receive a power from you to transfer, had I put it in
your name, and in the meantime the dividends could
not be received for your use. The mode I have
adopted has been used in like cases, and can be in-
stantly altered to any you direct, on your favoring
me with a letter.

The account is as follows, viz. :

Bought of Samuel and William Scholey, stock
brokers, for Major General Arnold, ;^7,ooo, stock in
new 4 p. cents at 71 1-4 as follows:

In the name of Major General Benedict Arnold
;i£ioo stock at 71 1-4 new 4 p. cents consols ) - ^^^^
;^6,9oostockat 71 1-4- " " " j M,987io

In name of James Meyrick, Esqr.
Commission paid the brokers .... 815

Power of attorney to receive dividends . . 16

;£4,996 6 6
There remains therefore ;^3 13 6 of the ;;£5,ooo.

Thus, by this method, if I receive any instructions
from you for employing your money in a different
manner, I can sell out the ;^6,9oo stock and dispose
of your money agreeable to your directions before
this letter reaches you, and if it is your wish that it
should remain in the fund, it can be placed under
your [incomplete].

ARNOLD S PLOT

Philadelphia, 12 October, 1780.

. . . The late providential discovery of Ar-
nold's Plot, which appears to have been a consider-

4i6 The Works of [1781

able time in agitation, has induced a belief that
Rodney had something further in view than merely
counteracting the design of the Comte de Guichen.

In a controversy and revolution such as this,
where former friendships and intimacies subsisted
between the contending parties, and where men of
upright intentions took different sides, and men of
all characters were engaged in the contest, it would
not have been strange nor uncommon if conspiracies
had been formed; but to the honor of the American
army Arnold is the first, and it is beheved the only
American officer who has during this war entered
into a conspiracy to betray his country. You know
the character of the man: he was brave but avari-
cious, fond of parade, and not very scrupulous about
the means of acquiring money to defray the ex-
penses of it. He had married a young woman who
had been distinguished by General Howe's Meschi-
anzi knights, and her father was not remarkable for
his attachment to the American cause. The ex-
pensive manner in which he (Arnold) lived in Phila-
delphia reduced his finances, and the accounts he
exhibited against the pubUc underwent a scrutiny
at the Board of Treasury, not much to the advantage
of his honor and honesty; which, joined to his dis-
appointment in the case of the Active and the result
of the courts-martial instituted on the complaint
of the Council of Pennsylvania, soured his temper
and rendered him a fit object for Clinton's views.
By letters found among his private papers, it appears
that Captain Andre, one of Sir H. CUnton's aides,
had commenced a correspondence with Mrs. Arnold

1781] Benjamin Franklin 417

in 1779, under pretence of supplying her with mil-
linery. Whether it was continued till it was ripened
into the plot of betraying West Point into the hands
of the enemy, I will not undertake to say ; but that
the scheme had been some time in agitation appears
evident from this : that while the enemy were mak-
ing preparation for executing their purpose, and
giving out that their design was against Virginia,
the same reports were circulated in Lord Corn-
walHs' camp in South Carolina, and measures were
taken to make us believe he meant to second the
expedition, by marching through North CaroHna
and forming a junction with Sir Henry on his arrival
in Virginia. At this time Rodney arrived at New
York, and it is conjectured the design was, as soon
as they had gained possession of West Point and cut
off the communication between the Western and
Southern States, to turn their whole force against
the French fleet at Rhode Island. This, it is true,
is but conjecture, but it must be confessed the object
was great, and had Rodney succeeded, he would
have finished the year with as much eclat as he began
it. The providential discovery of the plot, blasted
the schemxC of our enemies.

The following specimen of American poetry well
describes the popular feeling on the occasion :

ON GENERAL ARNOLD

At freedom's call, see Arnold take the field,
With honor blazon'd on his patriot shield;
His gallant feats a dazzling lustre spread ;
And circling glories beam'd around his head.

4i8 The Works of [1781

His well-earned praises were consigned to fame ;

And fate decreed him an immortal name,

But when, estrang'd from freedom's glorious cause,

Neglecting honor and its sacred laws,

Impell'd by motives of the basest kind,

Which mark the vicious, mean, degen'rate mind,

To virtue lost, and callous to disgrace,

The traitor hiding with the hero's face,

His canker'd heart to sordid views a slave.

To mammon yielding all that freedom gave,

Enleagu'd with friends of that detested tribe,

Whose god is gold, whose savior is a bribe.

Could basely join, his country to betray,

And thus restore a ruthless tyrant's sway.

On freedom's sons impose the galling yoke,

And crush each foe to vice beneath the stroke;

Not all his laurels in the field obtain'd,

Not that which Philip's son by conquest gain'd.

Not all that once adorn'd great Caesar's brow,

Nor all that Washington may challenge now.

Could save a wretch, whom crimes like these debase,

So far beneath the rank of human race.

But stung with keen remorse, his guilty soul

In vain shall seek repose from pole to pole ;

Perpetual anguish shall torment his breast.

And hellish demons haunt his troubled rest ;

Not even death shall shield his hated name.

For still the caitiff shall survive to fame,

By fate's decree, who thus pronounc'd his lot:

"Too bad to die, too base to be forgot;

Thy crimes succeeding ages shall proclaim,

And Judas be forgot in Arnold's name."

1781] Benjamin Franklin 4^9

DCCCCLXV

TO THE PRESIDENT OF CONGRESS

Passy, 14 May, 1781.

Sir: — I did myself the honor of writing to your
Excellency pretty fully oti the 12th of March, to
which I beg leave to refer. Colonel Laurens arriving
soon after, we renewed the application for more
money.

His indefatigable endeavors have brought the good
dispositions of this court to a more speedy determina-
tion of making an addition, than could well have been
expected so soon after the former grant. As he will
have an opportunity of acquainting you personally
with all the particulars of importance, a circumstan-
tial account of the transaction from me is unneces-
sary. I would only mention that, as it is the practice
here to consider early in the year the probable ex-
penses of the campaign, and appropriate the revenues
to the several necessary services, all subsequent and
unexpected demands are extremely inconvenient
and disagreeable, as they cannot be answered with-
out difficulty, occasion much embarrassment, and
are sometimes impracticable. If, therefore, the
Congress have not on this occasion obtained all they
wished, they will impute it to the right cause, and
not suppose a want of good-will in our friends, who
indeed are such, most firmly and sincerely.

The whole supply for the current year now amounts
to twenty millions ; but out of this are to be paid your
usual drafts for interest money, those in favor of M.
de Beaumarchais, and those heretofore drawn on Mr.
The Works of [1781

Jay and Mr. Laurens, which I have already either
paid or engaged for, with the support of your several
ministers, etc., etc.; which I mention, that the Con-
gress may avoid embarrassing my successor with
drafts, which perhaps he may not have the means
in his hands of honoring. Besides paying the second
years' salaries of Messrs. Adams and Dana, Jay and
Carmichael, I have furnished Mr. Dana with fifteen
hundred pounds sterling credit on St. Petersburg,
for which place I suppose he is now on his way.

You will receive from Holland advices of the late
declaration of that court, with regard to the English
refusal of its mediation, and of the assistance re-
quested by the States-General. I hope Mr. Dana
will find it well disposed towards us.

I have received no answer yet to my letters relating
to the proposed mode of lodging funds here, by sup-
plying the French fleet and army. Having as yet
heard nothing of Colonel Palfrey, and it being now
more than four months since he sailed, there is great
reason to fear he may be lost. If that should un-
happily be the case, the Congress cannot too soon
appoint another consul, such an officer being really
necessary here. Your Minister Plenipotentiary has
hitherto had all that sort of business upon his hands ;
and, as I do not now speak for myself, I may speak
more freely. I think he should be freed from the
burden of such affairs, from all concerns in making
contracts for furnishing supplies, and from all your
bill of exchange business, etc., etc., that he may be
more at liberty to attend to the duties of his political
function.

lySi] Benjamin Franklin 421

The prisoners in England are increasing by the late
practice of sending our people from New York, and
the refusal of the English admiralty to exchange any
Americans for Englishmen not taken by American
armed vessels. I would mention it for the considera-
tion of Congress, whether it may not be well to set
apart five or six hundred English prisoners, and
refuse them all exchange in America, but for our
countrymen now confined in England.

Agreeably to the vote of Congress, and your Ex-
cellency's letter of the 4th of January, I have re-
quested the assistance of this court for obtaining
the release of Mr. President Laurens. It does not
yet appear that the thing is practicable. What the
present situation is of that unfortunate gentleman,
may be gathered from the enclosed letters.^

I hope the Alliance, with the ship Marquis de La-
fayette under her convoy, is by this time arrived, as
they sailed the 27th of March. I flatter myself that
the supplies of clothing, etc., which they carry, will
be found good of the kind, and well bought. I have
by several late opportunities sent copies of the
government letters taken in the New York packet.
Your Excellency will see that they are written in
the perfect persuasion of our submitting speedily,
and that the Commissioners are cautioned not to
promise too much, with regard to the future consti-
tutions to be given us, as many changes of the old
may be necessary, etc. One cannot read those let-
ters from the American Secretary of State, and his

I The reference here is to the letters of Sir Grey Cooper, and Mr.
Charles Vernon. See Letters, Supra, Nov. 20, and Nov. 27, 1780.

422 The Works of [1781

under-secretary, Knox, without a variety of reflec-
tions of the state we should necessarily be in, if
obliged to make the submission they so fondly hope
for, but which I trust in God they will never see.
Their affairs in the East Indies, by the late accounts,
grow worse and worse ; and twenty- two ships of the
prey they made in the West are wrenched out of
their jaws by the squadron of M. de la Motte- Piquet.
I mentioned in a former letter, my purpose of re-
maining here for some time after I should be super-
seded. I mean it with the permission of Congress,
and on the supposition of no orders being sent me to
the contrary; and I hope it will be so understood.
With the greatest respect, I have the honor to be,
etc., B. Franklin.

DCCCCLXVI

TO SAMUEL COOPER

Passy, 15 May, 1781.

Dear Sir: — I received your kind letter of Febru-
ary ist, by Colonel Johonnot. Your sentiments of
the present state of our affairs appear to me very
judicious, and I am much obliged by your free com-
munication of them. They are often of use, here;
for you have a name and character among us that
give weight to your opinions.

It gives me great pleasure to leam that your new
constitution is at length settled with so great a degree
of unanimity and general satisfaction. It seems to
me, upon the whole, an excellent one; and that if

1781] Benjamin Franklin 423

there are some particulars that one might have
wished a little different, they are such as could not
in the present state of things have been well obtained
otherwise than they are, and, if by experience found
inconvenient, will probably be changed hereafter.
I would only mention at present one article, that of
maintenance for the clergy. It seems to me that,
by the constitution, the Quakers may be obliged to
pay the tax for that purpose. But, as the great end
in imposing it is professedly the promotion of piety,
religion, and morality, and those people have found
means of securing that end among themselves with-
out a regular clergy, and their teachers are not al-
lowed to receive money, I should think it not right
to tax them, and give the money to the teacher of
the parish; but I imagine that, in the laws to be
made for levying parish taxes, this matter may be
regulated to their contentment.

I am very sensible of the honor done me by the
American Academy of Arts and Sciences, in choosing
me one of their members. I wish I could be of some
utility in promoting the noble design of their institu-
tion. Perhaps I may, by sending them from time to
time som^e of the best publications that appear here.
I shall begin to make a collection for them.

Your excellent sermon gave me abundance of
pleasure, and is much admired by several of my
friends who understand English. I propose to get
it translated and printed at Geneva, at the end of a
translation of your new constitution. Nothing could
be happier than your choice of a text, and your ap-
plication of it. It was not necessary in New England,

424 The Works of [1781

where everybody reads the Bible, and is acquainted
with Scripture phrases, that you should note the
texts from which you took them; but I have ob-
served in England, as well as in France, that verses
and expressions taken from the sacred writings, and
not known to be such, appear very strange and awk-
ward to some readers; and I shall therefore, in my
edition, take the liberty of marking the quoted texts
in the margin.

I know not whether a belly-full has been given to
anybody by the picking of my bones, but picked they
now are, and I think it time they should be at rest.
I am taking measures to obtain that rest for them;
happy if, before I die, I can find a few days abso-
lutely at my own disposal. I often form pleasing
imaginations of the pleasure I should enjoy as a
private person among my friends and compatriots
in my native Boston. God only knows whether this
pleasure is reserved for me. With the greatest and
most sincere esteem, I am, etc.,

B. Franklin.

DCCCCLXVII

TO FRANCIS LEWIS

Passy, 16 May, 1781.

Sir : — I received the letter you did me the honor
of writing to me the 1st of January. The bill for
four thousand four himdred and forty-four Mexican
dollars, which you remitted to Mr. Schweighauser,
being refused payment by Mr. Jay, for want of a reg-
ular endorsement by Mr. Laurens, in whose favor it

lySi] Benjamin Franklin 425

was drawn, and which endorsement could not now be
obtained, Mr. Schweighauser applied to me, inform-
ing me that he should not send the things ordered by
your Board, unless the bill was paid; and it appear-
ing on the face of the bill that it was drawn for public
service, I concluded to take it up, on which he has
purchased the things and shipped them. Colonel
Laurens has put on board some other supplies for the
army, and I suppose the vessel will now sail directly.

The drafts from Congress upon me for various ser-
vices, and those on Mr. Jay and Mr. Laurens, all
coming upon me for payment, together with the ex-
penses on the ships, etc., etc., have made it imprac-
ticable for me to advance more for loading the Active;
but as we have obtained lately promises of a consid-
erable aid for this year, I shall now try what I can do,
as the money comes in, towards supplying what is
demanded in the invoice you mention. You will
receive, I hope, twenty-eight cannon, and a large
quantity of powder and saltpetre, by the ship Mar-
quis de Lafayette. I have, by several opportunities,
written in answer to your questions relative to the
ship Alliance. I have the honor to be, etc.,

B. Franklin.

P S. — Please to present my respects to the Board.

DCCCCLXVIII

TO JOHN ADAMS

Passy, 19 May, 1781.

Sir : — I have with you no doubt that America will
be easily able to pay off not only the interest, but the

426 The Works of [1781

principal, of all the debt she may contract in this
war. But whether duties upon her exports will be
the best method of doing it, is a question I am not
so clear in. England raised indeed a great revenue
by duties on tobacco. But it was by virtue of a
prohibition of foreign tobaccos, and thereby obliging
the internal consumer to pay those duties. If Amer-
ica were to lay a duty of five pence sterling a pound
on the exportation of her tobacco, would any Eu-
ropean nation buy it? Would not the colonies of
Spain and Portugal, and the Ukraine of Russia fur-
nish it much cheaper? Was not England herself
obliged, for such reasons, to drop the duty on to-
bacco she furnished to France? Would it not cost
an immense sum in officers, etc., to guard our long
coast against smuggling of tobacco, and running it
out to avoid a duty ? And would not many even of
those officers be corrupted and connive at it? It is
possibly an erroneous opinion, but I find myself
rather inclined to adopt that modem one, which
supposes it best for every country to leave its trade
entirely free from all incumbrances. Perhaps no
country does this at present. Holland comes the
nearest to it; and her commercial wealth seems to
have increased in proportion.

Your Excellency has done me the honor of an-
nouncing to me your appointment. I hope soon to
return the compliment by informing you of my de-
mission. I find the various employments of mer-
chant, banker, judge of admiralty, consul, etc., etc.,
besides my ministerial function, too multifarious and
too heavy for my old shoulders ; and have therefore

1781] Benjamin Franklin 427

requested Congress that T may be relieved; for in
this point I agree even with my enemies, that an-
other may easily be found who can better execute
them. B. Franklin.

DCCCCLXIX

FROM COUNT DE VERGENNES

Versailles, 8 June, 1781.

Sir: — I have received the letter you did me the
honor to write me on the 4th instant. I do not know
whether Mr. Laurens has purchased the clothing in
Holland on account of Congress; I only know (and
you were likewise informed of it at the same time)
that this officer was to employ for his purchases in
France part of the six millions which the king has
granted to Congress, and that the residue of this
sum was intended to be sent to America, with a view
of re-establishing the credit of the United States.

If Mr. Laurens, instead of paying ready money in
Holland, has contented himself with giving bills on
you, I have no concern in it, and the king can furnish
no means for your reimbursement.

As to the moneys arising from the loan opened
in Holland, we have no pretensions to regulate the
employment of them, as they belong to the United
States. You must, therefore, sir, apply to Congress
for the power of disposing of them, in discharge of
the drafts drawn on you from all quarters. I have
the honor to be, etc.,

De Vergennes.

428 The Works of [1781

DCCCCLXX

TO MESSRS. D. WENDORP AND THOMAS HOPE HEYHGER

Passy, 8 June, 1781.

Gentlemen : — I received the letter you did me the
honor of writing to me on the 31st past, relating to
your ship, supposed to be retaken from the English
by an American privateer, and carried into Morlaix.
I apprehend that you have been misinformed, as I do
not know of any American privateer at present in
these seas. I have the same sentiments with you of
the injustice of the English, in their treatment of
your nation. They seem at present to have re-
nounced all pretension to any other honor than that
of being the first piratical state in the world. There
are three employments which I wish the law of na-
tions would protect, so that they should never be
molested or interrupted by enemies even in time of
war : I mean farmers, fishermen, and merchants ; be-
cause their employments are not only innocent, but
for the common subsistence and benefit of the human
species in general. As men grow more enlightened,
we may hope that this will in time be the case. Till
then we must submit, as well as we can, to the evils
we cannot remedy. I have the honor to be, gentle-
men, etc., B. Franklin.

lySi] Benjamin Franklin 429

DCCCCLXXI

FROM JOHN LAURENS '

At Sea, 9 June, 1781.

Dear Sir: — On the ist instant we had a faint
breeze that just served to bring us to sea, where we
have been languishing in calms and buffeting against
contrary winds, which at one time were so violent
as to oblige us to lie to till yesterday morning, when
a favorable change took place, and enabled us to
enter the ocean at a convenient distance from Cape
Ortegal. As we are parting with the Engageante,
which has accompanied us thus far, and returns to
Coruna to convoy a part of the French West India
trade, I snatch a moment to pay my last respects to
your Excellency, and to mention a matter which
has occurred to me since my being on board.

I have frequently reflected upon the mention
which you have made of retiring from your present
important station, and have never varied the opin-
ion which I took the liberty of giving you once
at the Count de Vergennes', namely, that the best

^ This was the son of Henry Laiirens, of South Carolina, who as-
sisted in negotiating the peace of 1783. In the winter of 1780 he was
sent out to Paris by Congress as a special envoy to solicit relief for the
immediate and pressing needs of the army. He was then only twenty-
five years of age. He sailed from Boston in February, 1781, and
arrived in Paris on the 19th of March following. He had scarcely the
maturity and experience for the mission he had tmdertaken, and was
not long in discovering it. He returned to his country after an
absence of little less than three months. He rejoined the army, was
present at the siege of Yorktown, and subsequently joined the South-
em army under General Greene, and while leading an advanced party
against some British marauders received a wotuid which terminated
his life on the 27th of August, 1782, in the twenty-seventh year of his
age. He was a gifted man and a national loss.

430 The Works of [1781

arrangement woiild be to give your Excellency an
active, intelligent Secretary of the Embassy, who
might relieve you from the drudgery of office, and
that your country should not be deprived of the
advantages of yowc wisdom and influence. The
difficulty hitherto has been to find a person properly
qualified. The advantages which your grandson de-
rives from his knowledge of the language and man-
ners of the people, and his having been so long in
your office and with your Excellency, are very great.
The prejudices which have been entertained against
him may be removed by a personal introduction to
Congress, especially if it is combined with rendering
a popular sei'vice. I take the liberty of proposing
to your Excellency, therefore, if you can spare Mr.
Franklin for the purpose, to commit to his care the
second remittance of money, and to hasten his de-
parture with that and such of the pubHc supplies
of clothing as may be ready to accompany it. I am
persuaded that, in public bodies, the want of a
personal acquaintance is a great objection to ap-
pointing a man to any important office.

The Engageante's boat demands my letter. I have
written in the greatest haste upon a subject which
I hope you will turn to public utility. I renew my
sincerest and tenderest wishes for your health and
prosperity. I entreat a continuance of the friend-
ship with which you have honored me, and am, with
the greatest veneration, etc., John Laurens.'

I On the subject of the above letter, Mr. Jay wrote to the President of
Congress from Madrid, as follows, April 21, 1781:

" By the letter from Doctor Franklin, herein enclosed, and which he

1781] Benjamin Franklin 431

DCCCCLXXII

TO THE PRESIDENT OF CONGRESS

Passy, II June, 1781.

Sir : — I have lately done myself the honor of writ-
ing largely to your Excellency by divers conveyances,
to which I beg leave to refer. This is chiefly to

was so obliging as to leave open for my perusal, I find he has requested
permission to retire, on accoimt of his age, infirmities, etc. How far
his health may be impaired, I know not. The letters I have received
from him bear no marks of age, and there is an acuteness and senten-
tious brevity in them which do not indicate an understanding injured
by years. I have many reasons to think our country much indebted
to him, and I confess it would mortify my pride as an American if his
constituents should be the only people to whom his character is known,
that should deny his merit and services the testimony given them by
other nations. Justice demands of me to asstire you that his reputa-
tion and respectabiUty are acknowledged and have weight here, and
that I have received from him all that uniform attention and aid which
was due to the importance of the affairs committed to me.

"The affectionate mention he makes of his only descendant, on
whom the support of his name and family will devolve, is extremely
amiable, and flows in a delicate manner from that virtuous sensibility,
by which nature kindly extends the benefits of parental affection to a
period beyond the limits of our lives. This is an affecting subject,
and minds susceptible of the finer sensations are insensibly led at
least to wish that the feelings of an ancient patriot, going in the
evening of a long life really devoted to the public, to enjoy repose in
the bosom of philosophic retirement, may be gratified by seeing some
little sparks of the affection of his country rest on the only support
of his age and hope of his family. Such are the effusions of my heart
on this occasion, and I poior them into yours from a persuasion that
they will meet with a hospitable reception from congenial emotions."

In reply to Colonel Lauren's letter. Dr. Franklin said: "I received
your very kind letter written at sea, off the coast of Spain. I thank
you for the friendly hint contained in it respecting my grandson ; I see
that what you propose for him might have a good effect, but I have
too much occasion for his assistance, and cannot spare him to make
the voyage. He must take his chance, and I hope he will in time
obtain, as well as merit, the consideration of our government." —
Passy, November 8, 1781.

432 The Works of [1781

cover the copy of a letter I have just received from
the minister, relative to the disposition of the late
loans; by which will be seen the situation I am in
with respect to my acceptances of the quantities
of bills drawn by Congress on Mr. Jay, Mr. Laurens,
Mr. Adams, and myself; which I entered into in the
expectation, which both Colonel Laurens and myself
entertained, that a part of these loans might be ap-
plied to the payment of these bills, but which I am
now told cannot be done without an express order
from Congress.

I shall endeavor to change the sentiments of the
court in this respect, but I am not sure of succeeding.
I must therefore request that a resolution of Congress
may immediately be sent, empowering me to apply
as much of those loans as shall be necessary for the
discharge of all such drafts of Congress, or for the re-
payment of such sums as I may in the meantime
be obliged to borrow for the discharge of those drafts.
I have the honor to be, etc.,

B. Franklin.

DCCCCLXXIII

TO JOHN ADAMS

Passy, II June, 1781.

Sir: — Mr. Grand has communicated to me a letter
from your Excellency to him, relating to certain
charges in your account, on which you seem to desire
to have my opinion. As we are all new in these
matters, I consulted, when I was making up my ac-

1781] Benjamin Franklin 433

count, one of the oldest foreign ministers here as to
the custom in such cases. He informed me that it
was not perfectly uniform with the ministers of all
courts, but that in general, where a salary was given
for service and expenses, the expenses understood
were merely those necessary to the man, such as
housekeeping, clothing, and coach; but that the rent
of the hotel in which he dwelt, the payment of cou-
riers, the postage of letters, the salary of clerks, the
stationery for his bureau, with the feasts and illumi-
nations made on public occasions, were esteemed the
expenses of the prince or state that appointed him,
being for the service or honor of his prince or nation,
and either entirely, or in great part, expenses that,
as a private man, he would have been under no
necessity of incurring. These, therefore, were to be
charged in his accounts. He remarked, it was true,
that the minister's housekeeping, as well as his house,
was usually, and in some sort necessarily, more ex-
pensive than that of a private person; but this, he
said, was considered in his salary to avoid trouble in
accounts ; but that, where the prince or state had not
purchased or built a house for their minister, which
was sometimes the case, they always paid his house
rent.

I have stated my own accounts according to this
information ; and I mention them, that, if they seem
to you reasonable, we may be imiform in oiu- charges,
by your charging in the same manner; or, if objec-
tions to any of them occur to you, that you would
communicate them to me for the same reason.

Thus you see my opinion that the articles you

VOL. vm. — 28.

434 The Works of [1781

mention, of courtage, commission, and port de lettres,
are expenses that ought to be borne, not by you, but
by the United States. Yet it seems to me more proper,
that you should pa}^ them and charge them with the
other articles above mentioned, than that they should
be paid by me, who, not knowing the circumstances,
cannot judge (as you can) of the truth and justice of
such an account when presented, and who, besides,
have no orders to pay more on your account than
your net salary.

With regard to that salary, though your receipts to
Fizeau & Grand, shown to me, might be quite suf-
ficient to prove they had paid you the sums therein
mentioned, yet, as there are vouchers for them, and
which they have a right to retain, I imagine it will be
clearest if you draw upon me, agreeably to the order
of Congress; and, if this is quarterly, it will be the
most convenient to me. With great respect, I have

the honor, etc.,

B. Franklin.*

DCCCCLXXIV

FROM SAMUEL HUNTINGTON, PRESIDENT OF CONGRESS

Philadelphia, 19 June, 1781.

Sir: — ^You will receive, herewith enclosed, a letter
addressed to his most Christian Majesty, with a copy
of the same for your information ; also a commission
constituting yourself, with the four other gentlemen
therein named, our ministers for negotiating a peace ;

^ For Mr. Adams's answer see the Diplomatic Correspondence, Vol.
IIL, p. 238.

1781] Benjamin Franklin 435

also, another commission and duplicate authorizing
the same ministers to accept of the mediation of the
Emperor of Germany and Empress of Russia, in one
of which the Emperor is first named, and, in the
other, the Empress, to be made use of as circum-
stances shall render it expedient. '

I have also herewith enclosed instructions for your
government, in addition to those formerly given to
Mr. Adams for negotiating peace. A letter, in an-
swer to yours of the 1 2th of March last, will also ac-
company this. You will please to communicate
immediately to Mr. Adams and Mr. Jay the receipt
of these important despatches.

Mr. Secretary Thomson desires you would be so
good as to send him the machine, with proper direc-
tions, to be used for striking copies of letters, as
mentioned in yours of the 1 2th of March. For want
of time I must refer you to Mr. Lo veil's despatches
for American intelligence in general. I have the
honor to be, etc., Samuel Huntington,

President of Congress.

DCCCCLXXV

TO WILLIAM JACKSON '

Passy, 28 June, 1781.

Sir: — Since my acceptance of your bills, I have
applied to the ministry for more money to discharge

' See Diplomatic Correspondence, Vol. X., pp. 71-76.

2 Mr. Jackson was aide-de-camp to General Lincoln, and accom-
panied Colonel Laurens to France. When Colonel Laurens left Paris,
to return to America, he sent Mr. Jackson to Holland, with instructions
to superintend the shipment of money and goods on public account
in the frigate South Carolina, commanded by Commodore Gillon.

436 The Works of [1781

the other engagements I entered into for payment of
the Congress bills drawn on Holland and Spain. I
find so much difficulty and even impossibility of ob-
taining it at this time, that I am under the absolute
necessity of stopping the cash that is in Holland, or
of ruining all the credit of the States in Europe, and
even in America, by stopping payment.

This is, therefore, to order that, in case the said
casli has been delivered to you by Messrs. Fizeau &
Grand, you would immediately return it into their
hands to remain there at my disposal. I am sorry
that this operation is necessary, but it must be done,
or the consequences will be terrible. I have the
honor to be, etc., B. Franklin.

DCCCCLXXVI

TO DAVID HARTLEY

Passy, 30 June, 1781.

I received my dear friend's kind letter of the 15th
instant, and immediately communicated your request
of a passport to the Count de Vergennes. His an-
swer, which I have but just received, expresses an
opinion that the circumstance of his granting a pass-
port to you, as you mention the purpose of your com-
ing to be the discoursing with me on the subject of
peace, might, considering your character, occasion
many inconvenient reports and speculations; but
that he would make no difficulty of giving it, if you
assured me that you were authorized for such pur-
pose by your ministry, which he does not think at all

1781] Benjamin Franklin 437

likely ; otherwise, he judges it best that I should not
encourage your coming.

Thus it seems I cannot have at present the pleas-
ure you were so kind as to propose for me. I can
only join with you in earnest wishes for peace, a
blessing which I shall hardly live to see. With the
greatest esteem and respect, I am ever, dear sir,

B. Franklin.

DCCCCLXXVII

TO WILLIAM JACKSON

Passy, 5 Jvdy, at 6 in the morning, 1781.

Sir: — I have this instant received your letter of
the 2d, urging the delivery of the money. I must be
short in my reply, as your express waits.

Colonel Laurens, indeed, obtained a promise of ten
millions, to be raised by a loan in Holland. I under-
stood, while he was here, that that loan was in train,
and that the million and a half to be sent with you
was a part of it. I since learn that nothing has yet
been obtained in Holland, that the success is not yet
certain, and that the money in question is a part of
the six millions I had obtained before his arrival,
upon the strength of which I accepted the bills drawn
on his father and on Mr. Jay, and without which
acceptances the Congress' credit in America would
have been ruined, and a loss incurred of twenty
per cent, upon the protests. I cannot obtain more
money here at present; and those bills, being ac-
cepted, must be paid, as well as those I accepted,

438 The Works of [1781

on your earnest request, for the great unexpected
purchase you made in Holland.

Colonel Laurens has carried two million and a half
of that six millions with him, which will serve till the
loan in Holland produces a further supply. In the
meantime, I cannot suffer the credit of our country
to be destroyed, if, by detaining this money, it may
be saved. And if I were to consent to its going,
our banker would be obliged to arrest great part of
it as belonging to the States, he being in advance for
them, which would occasion much disagreeable noise,
and very ill consequences to our credit in Europe.

I find by Mr. Viemerange's account just received,
that Mr. Laurens' orders have more than absorbed
all the money he did not take with him. I applaud
the zeal you have both shown in the affair ; but I see
that nobody cares how much I am distressed, pro-
vided they can carry their own points. I must,
therefore, take what care I can of mine, theirs and
mine being equally intended for the service of the
public. I am sorry to learn that the vessel is de-
tained for this express. I understood by your last
that she waited for convoy. I heartily wish you a
good voyage, and am, with great esteem, etc.,

B. Franklin.

DCCCCLXXVIII

TO WILLIAM JACKSON

Passy, 5 July, 1781.

Sir: — I received your letter of the 2d instant, by
your first express, this morning at six; answered it,

1781] Benjamin Franklin 439

and sent him away immediately. I have just now
received your second express, of the same date, in
which you threaten me with a proceeding, that I
apprehend exceedingly imprudent, as it can answer
no good end to you, must occasion much scandal,
and be thereby very prejudicial to the affairs of the
Congress.

But I cannot, therefore, consent to suffer their
bills, to the amount of more than a milhon accepted
and expected, to go back protested for want of this
money. I have nothing to change in the answer
above mentioned. You will, however, follow your
own judgment, as I must follow mine; and you will
take upon yourself the consequences. I have the
honor to be, etc., B. Franklin.

DCCCCLXXIX

TO WILLIAM JACKSON

Passy, 6 July, 1781.

Sir: — I received and answered two of your ex-
presses yesterday morning, and in the evening I
received a third letter from you, all dated the 2d
instant.

In this last you tell me " that I must be sensible I
cannot have the disposal of the money, as it was ob-
tained, without either my knowledge or concurrence,
by Colonel Laurens, appointed special minister for
that purpose. " I do not desire to diminish the merit
of Colonel Laurens. I beheve he would have been
glad, if it had been in his power, to have procured ten

440 The Works of [1781

times the sum ; and that no apphcation or industry
on his part for that purpose would have been want-
ing. But I cannot let this injurious assertion of
yours pass, without expressing my surprise that you,
who were always with that gentlemian, should be so
totally ignorant of that transaction. The six mil-
lions, of which he took with him two and a half, of
which one and a half were sent to Holland, and of
which more than the remainder is ordered in stores
from hence, was a free gift from the king's good-
ness (not a loan to be repaid with interest), and was
obtained by my application, long before Colonel
Laurens' arrival.

I had also given in a list of the stores to be pro-
vided, though on his coming I cheerfully gave up the
further prosecution of that business into his hands,
as he was better acquainted with the particular wants
of the army than I could be, and it was one of the
purposes of his appointment.

Thus no part of the affair was done without my
"knowledge and concurrence,'' except the sending a
million and a half of the specie to Holland. This
was indeed a secret to me. I had heard of that sum's
being ready there to embark, but I always, till lately,
understood it to be a part of the Dutch loan, which
I am about to mention, or I should certainly have
opposed that operation. What Colonel Laurens
really obtained, and a great service I hope it will
prove, was a loan upon interest of ten millions, to be
borrowed on the credit of this court in Holland. I
have not heard that this loan has yet produced any
thing, and therefore I do not know that a single

i78t] Benjamin Franklin 44 1

livre exists, or has existed in Europe, of his procuring
for the States. On the contrary, he and you have
drawn from me considerable sums, as necessary for
your expenses, and he left me near forty thousand
livres to pay for the Alliance; and, moreover, en-
gaged me in a debt in Holland, which I imderstood
might amount to about fifteen thousand pounds
sterling, and which you contrived to make fifty
thousand pounds.

When I mentioned to him the difficulty I should
find to pay the drafts, he said: "You have the re-
mainder of the six millions," He gave me no ac-
count of the dispositions he had made, and it is but
lately I have learnt that there is no remainder. To
gratify you, and to get that ship out, which could
not have stirred without me, I have engaged for the
vast sum above mentioned, which I am sure I shall
be much distressed to pay, and therefore have not
deserved at your hands the affront you are advised
to menace me with.

And, since I find you make it a point of reflection
upon me, that I want to apply money to the payment
of my engagements for the Congress, which was ob-
tained by Colonel Laurens for other purposes, I must
request that you will upon this better information
take occasion to correct that error, if you have com-
municated it to any other person.

By the letters you showed me that had passed be-
tween Mr. Adams and you, I perceived he had im-
bibed an opinion that Colonel Laurens had, as he
expressed it, done more for the United States in the
short time of his being in Europe, than all the rest of

442 The Works of [1781

their diplomatic corps put together. I should never
have disputed this, because I had rather lend a little
credit to a friend than to take any from him, es-
pecially when I am persuaded he will make a good
use of it; but, when his friends will make such sup-
posititious credit a matter of reproach to me, it is
not right to continue silent.

As to the safety of your excellent conveyance you
mention, I must own I have some doubts about it,
and I fear I shall hear of the arrival of that ship in
England before she sees America. Be that as it
may, I am clear that no use can possibly be made of
the money in America for supporting the credit of
the States, equal in any degree to the effect it must
have for the same purpose, when applied to the pay-
ment of their bills here, which must otherwise go back
protested. And I am sure it will be exceedingly
prejudicial to their credit if, by the rash proceeding
you threaten, this situation of their affairs becomes
the stibject of public talk and discussion in Europe.
I am, etc., B. Franklin.

P. S. — I request you would read again, and con-
sider well, my first letter to you on this subject.
The reasons therein contained subsist still in their
full force.'

* Mr. Jackson afterwards had reason to be entirely satisfied with the
course pursued by Dr. Franklin on this occasion. He sailed from
Amsterdam with Commodore Gillon, who, after cruising four weeks in
the North Sea and near the English channel, put into Coruna. From
that port Mr. Jackson wrote to Dr. Franklin as follows :

" I am sorry to inform you that the event has verified your predic-
tion in every particular. Mr. Gillon has violated his contract with
Colonel Laurens in every instance. I beg leave to present you my
most sincere and cordial thanks, as well for myself as my coimtry,

1781] Benjamin Franklin 443

DCCCCLXXX

TO COUNT DE VERGENNES '

Passy, 6 July, 1 781.

It seems to have been insinuated, either through
mistake or ill will to the United States :

1 . That their merchants have combined to depre-
ciate the bills drawn on France.

2. That their trade with England is as great as be-
fore the war.

for your disposition of the money which was to have been embarked
on board this vessel, the event having fatally confirmed your opinion
of this man. I conceive my coiintry indebted to your prudence for the
preservation of her property, as I do myself for my freedom at this
instant; for, I am assured, had not yom- precaution prevented the
embarkation, I shotild at this hour have been a prisoner; I need not
say where." — Coruna, September 26, 1781.

It would seem that there were personal differences between Com-
modore Gillon, Mr. Jackson, and some of the other passengers. Gillon
complained of Mr. Jackson's conduct in letters to Dr. Franklin and
Mr. Adams, from which it is obvious that the above expressions of
discontent on the part of Mr. Jackson are to be received with con-
siderable modification, as dictated more by feeling than by a calm
and impartial view of the case. Commodore Gillon said that he had
been detained long on the coast by contrary winds, and came to
Coruna for a supply of provisions, as he had not enough remaining,
in consequence of this detention, to enable him to cross the Atlantic.
There were five hundred and fifty men on board. Three htmdred of
these were marines, who were called Volontaires de Luxembourg, and
whom he had engaged, by the king's permission, in France, for the
State of South Carolina. They were to serve three years. Dr.
Waterhouse, who was a passenger on board the vessel, had a favorable
opinion of the Commodore, as appears by a letter he wrote from
Coruna to Mr. Adams. He thought the difficulties were chiefly to be
ascribed to Mr. Jackson, and one or two other passengers, who took
offence without a just cause ; and he has since written, in relation to this
affair: "I had, and always shall have, a high degree of respect for
Commodore Gillon, as an able and honorable man." — Editor.

I In a memorandum. Dr. Franklin says: "The following paper was
delivered to M. de Rayneval, to be by him communicated to Count de
Vergennes, in order to correct some wrong ideas of that minister."
The Works of [1781

I have known two instances wherein bills of ex-
change on England have fallen more than fifteen per
cent, lower than the present price of bills on France.

The first was in 1739, when an expedition being
projected against Carthagena, the government of
England ordered three thousand men to be raised
in America, and transports with provisions to be
furnished, for the amount of which expense bills were
ordered to be drawn on the treasury at London.
This adventitious quantity of bills coming into mar-
ket, and being more than the common course of the
commerce required, occasioned the lowering of their
price forty-two and a half per cent, below the rate
before accustomed.

The hke happened a few years after, when, on a
prospect of short crops of com in Europe, orders
were received in America to purchase and send over
vast quantities, and to draw bills and sell them in the
country in order to raise money for the purchase.
This sudden addition to the quantity of bills pro-
duced a fall of forty per cent, in their price. And
this must always happen in some proportion when
the quantity of any article in commerce exceeds the
present demand.

And when it is considered that the merchants of
America are numerous, and dispersed through thir-
teen different provinces, at great distances from each
other, such a combination will appear as improbable
as that the farmers in France should combine to raise
the price of wheat.

With regard to the English commerce, there is
none certainly but what is contraband, and there can

1781J Benjamin Franklin 445

be no temptation to such contraband, but for par-
ticular commodities that are cheaper there than in
France. The quantity therefore cannot be great.
Such contraband is found difficult to prevent in all
countries. It is carried on at this time between
France and England. But there are many commod-
ities much cheaper in France, such as wines, silks, oil,
modes, etc., which will be of great consumption in
America, and when correspondences are once settled,
and the people there become acquainted with the
manufactures of France, the demand for them will
increase; these manufactures will of course be im-
proved in goodness and cheapness, and the trade
continue to augment accordingly.

It is difficult to change suddenly the whole current
of connections, correspondences, and confidences
that subsist between merchants, and carry them all
into a new channel ; but time and a continuance of
friendship will make great alterations.

B. Franklin.

DCCCCLXXXI

TO WILLIAM JACKSON

Passy, 10 July, 1 78 1.

Sir: — Last night I received your fourth letter on
the same subject. You are anxious to carry the
money with you, because it will reanimate the credit
of America. My situation and long acquaintance
with the affairs relating to the public credit enable
me, I think, to judge better than you can do, who are
a novice in them, what employment of it will most

44^ The Works of [1781

conduce to that end ; and I imagine the retaining it
to pay the Congress drafts has infinitely the advan-
tage. You repeat that the ship is detained by my
refusal. You forget your having written to me ex-
pressly, that she waited for my convoy. You re-
mind me of the great expense the detention of the
ship occasions. Who has given orders to stop her?
It was not me. I had no authority to do it. Have
you? And do you imagine, if you have taken such
authority upon you, that the Congress ought to bear
the expense occasioned by your imprudence? and
that the blame of detaining the necessary stores the
ship contains will be excused by your fond desire of
carrying the money? The noise you have rashly
made about this matter, contrary to the advice of
Mr. Adams, which you asked and received, and
which was to comply with my requisition, has al-
ready done great mischief to our credit in Holland.
Messrs. Fizeaux have declared they will advance to
him no more money on his bills upon me to assist in
paying the Congress drafts on him. Your Commo-
dore, too, complains, in a letter I have seen, that he
finds it difficult to get money for my acceptances of
your drafts in order to clear his ship, though before
this proceeding of yours bills on me were, as Mr.
Adams assures me, in as good credit on the exchange
of Amsterdam as those of any banker in Europe. I
suppose the difficulty mentioned by the Commodore
is the true reason of the ship's stay, if in fact the con-
voy is gone without her. Credit is a delicate thing,
capable of being blasted with a breath. The public
talk you have occasioned about my stopping the

1781] Benjamin Franklin 447

money, and the conjectures of the reasons or neces-
sity of doing it, have created doubts and suspicions
of most pernicious consequences. It is a matter
that should have passed in silence. You repeat as
a reason for your conduct, that the money was ob-
tained by the great exertions of Colonel Laurens.
Who obtained the grant is a matter of no importance,
though the use I propose to make of it is of the great-
est. But the fact is not as you state it. I obtained
it before he came. And if he were here I am sure I
could convince him of the necessity of leaving it,
especially after I should have informed him that
you had made in Holland the enormous purchase
of ;!(^4o,ooo sterling's worth of goods over and above
the ;;^i 0,000 worth, which I had agreed should be
purchased by him on my credit, and that you had
induced me to engage for the payment of your pur-
chase by showing me a paper said to contain his
order for making it, which I then took to be his hand-
writing, though I afterwards found it to be yours,
and not signed by him. It would be additional
reason with him when I should remind him that he
himself, to induce me to come into the proposal of
Commodore Gillon and the rest of the Holland trans-
action, to which I was averse, assured me he had
mentioned it to the minister, and that it was ap-
proved of. That, on the contrary, I find the minis-
ter remembers nothing of it, very much dislikes it,
and absolutely refuses to furnish any money to
discharge that amount. You finish your letter by
telling me that " the daily enhancement of expense
to the United States from these difficulties is worthy

448 The Works of [1781

the attention of those whose duty it is to economize
the pubHc money, and to whom the commonweal
is entrusted without deranging the special depart-
ment of another." The ship's lying there with 500
or 600 men on board is undoubtedly a great daily
expense, but it is you that occasion it; and the
superior airs you give yourself, young gentleman,
of reproof to me, and reminding me of my duty, do
not become you, whose special department and
employ in public affairs, of which you are so vain,
is but of yesterday, and would never have existed
but by my concurrence, and would have ended in
disgrace if I had not supported your enormous pur-
chases by accepting your drafts. The charging me
with want of economy is particularly improper in
you, when the only instance you know of it is my
having indiscreetly complied with your demand in
advancing you 120 louis for the expense of your
journeys to Paris, and when the only instance I
know of your economizing money is your sending
me three expresses, one after another, on the same
day, all the way from Holland to Paris, each with
a letter saying the same thing to the same purpose.
This dispute is as useless as it is unpleasant. It can
only create ill blood. Pray let us end it. I have the
honor to be, etc., B. Franklin.

DCCCCLXXXII

TO THE PRESIDENT OF CONGRESS

Passy II July, 1781.

Sir: — The number of Congress bills that have been
drawn on the ministers in Spain and Holland, which

1781] Benjamin Franklin 449

I am by my acceptances obliged to pay, as well as
those drawn upon myself, the extreme importance of
supporting the credit of Congress, which would be
disgraced in a political as well as a pecuniary light,
through all the courts of Europe, if those bills should
go back protested, and the unexpected delays arising
with regard to the intended loan in Holland, — all
those considerations have compelled me to stop the
one million five hundred thousand livres, which were
to have been sent by way of Amsterdam. As soon
as more money can be furnished to me by this court,
I shall take care to replace that sum, and forward
with it as great an addition as possible. I am now
soliciting supplies of clothing, arms, ammunition,
etc., to replace what has been unfortunately lost
in the Marquis de Lafayette, and hope to succeed.

Captain Jackson, who is truly zealous for the ser-
vice, has been exceedingly solicitous and earnest with
me to induce me to permit the money to go in this
ship ; but, for the reasons above mentioned, I find it
absolutely necessary to retain it for the present,
which I doubt not will be approved by Congress.
With great respect, I have the honor to be, etc.,

B. Franklin.

END OF VOLUME VIII

^

iiillli


===== Benjamin Franklin - Founders Online (complete) + Works of Benjamin Franklin (Sparks, 10 vols, PD) (vol. 9) =====
Source: https://archive.org/download/worksofbenjaminf09fran/worksofbenjaminf09fran_djvu.txt

NYPL RESEARCH LIBRARIES

3 3433 08173676 5

'If

'f^.,
/f^'

y

THE
NEW YORK PUBLIC LIBRARY

The Amy Angell Collier Montague

AND Gilbert H. Montague

Collection

^^^'''1''6

fwL-SU*'^

<?' J-

ri

FEDERAL EDITION
Limited to 1,000 signed and numbered sets.

The Collector's Federal Edition of the Writings
of Benjamin Franklin is limited to six hundred
signed and numbered sets, of which this is

Number_

We guarantee that no limited, numbered edition,
other than the Federal, shall be printed from these
plates.

^^Tr^fe2i<«^^#^i^^in7i<jd

The written number must correspond with the
perforated number at top of this page.

meiur i^. -•

Benjamin Franklin

From a painting owned by H. C. Thompson, Esq., Phila.

mt

0rk$ 0f

fttjamm mtmu

xn

Ql^meltte Baluinx^s

fe^^^r^tl (Sdttwn

The Works of

Benjamin Franklin

Including the Private as well as the
Official and Scientific Correspondence

Together with

The Unmutilated and Correct Version of the Autobiography

Compiled and Edited
by

John Bigelow

Strange that Ulysses does a thousand things so well." — Iliad, B il, 335

Volume IX

G. P. Putnam's Sons

New York and London

XLbe IRnicherbocfter press
■Cbe •Rnicltetboclier presa, Wcw IBotft

CONTENTS OF VOLUME IX
DCCCCLXXXIII.— From Robert Morris, July

13TH 3

Announcing his appointment by
Congress as superintendent of the
finances — His poUcy for improving the
credit of the government — His plan of
a national bank.
DCCCCLXXXIV.— To Felix Vicq d'Azyr, July

20TH 9

On the long retention of infection of
dead bodies after sepultiu-e.
DCCCCLXXXV.— To Robert Morris, July 26th . 13

Critics and bug-writers.
DCCCCLXXXVI.— To Robert Morris, July 26th . 14
Disposition of moneys raised in
France — American bankers in Paris.
DCCCCLXXXVII.— To John Adams, August 6th . 16

Provision for salaries.

DCCCCLXXXVIII.— To Charles W. F. Dumas, Au-
gust 6th .... 17
Holland no longer a nation, but a
great shop.
DCCCCLXXXIX.— To Charles W. F. Dumas, Au-
gust lOTH .... 18

DCCCCXC. — To William Carmichael, Au-
gust 24TH .... 19
Congress refuses to accept Franklin's
resignation.
iii

iv Contents of Volume IX

PAGE

DCCCCXCL— To William Nixon, September

5TH 21

How to do much with little money.
DCCCCXCII. — To Robert Morris, September

I2TH 22

Concerning bills drawn on ministers
in Europe.

DCCCCXCIII.— To the President of Congress,

September 13TH ... 24
Interview with Covint de Vergennes
— Presents his instructions for nego-
tiating a peace.
DCCCCXCIV.— To Daniel of St. Thomas Jen-
ifer, September 13TH . . 26
DCCCCXCV. — To Richard Bache, September

13TH 27

Loss of Dr. Franklin's papers — Gal-
loway's defection and infidelity.

DCCCCXCVI. — To Francis Hopkinson, Septem-
ber 13TH .... 29

Friends and enemies.

DCCCCXCVII. — ^To John Ingenhousz, October

2D 30

On conductors of heat.
DCCCCXCVIIL— From John Adams, October

4TH 33

His commission for negotiating a
peace.
DCCCCXCIX.— To John Adams, October i2TH . 35
Where the peace-makers are blessed
— Mr. Jefferson's capture discredited—
Recommends a few doses of bark to Mr.
Adams.
M. — ^To Edmund Burke, October

iSth 36

Regarding General Burgoyne.
MI. — From Robert R. Livingston,

October 24TH . . . 3^

Appointed Secretary for Foreign Af-
fairs— Discourages Franklin's desire to
return home.

Contents of Volume IX v

PAGE

MII._To Thomas McKean, President of

Congress, November sth . . 41
American prisoners in England— Pro-
posed mediation declined by England-
Purchases in Holland
Mill.— To Messrs. Kornmann, November

21ST . • • • • -47

Relation to a claim of kinship.
MIV.— To Thomas Pownall, November 23D 48

MV. To John Adams, November 26TH . 49

Capitulation of CornwalUs — General
Greene.
I^VI.— From Robert R. Livingston, No-
vember 26TH . . . • • 54
Lafayette— Financial difficulties of the
United States— Need of naval force and the
advantages to France of furnishing it— In-
tercepted letters from Deane.
MVII.— To William Strahan, December 4TH 60
TuUy on old age— Printing in Paris.
MVIII.— From Robert Morris, December sth 61
Inexpediency of purchases in Holland-
Disposition of the American people toward
the French.
MIX.— To Mrs. C. Edes, December I 3TH . 64

Mr. Laurens's imprisonment.

MX. To John Adams, December 14TH . 66

Loan proposed by John de NeufviUe—
The difference between de Neufville and
Jacob.
j^XI.— To William Alexander, December

15TH 71

MXIL— To David Hartley, December 15TH . 72
MXIIL— To Charles W. F. Dumas, December

19TH ....•• 73

j^XIV.— To Miss Martha Laurens, December

29TH 74

The means used for the release of Mr.
Laurens.
MXV. — From Count de Vergennes, Decem-
ber 31ST ....•• 7"

vi Contents o( Volume IX

PAOa

MX\'l. TiiK r.\rKK MiiNKY iM' Tluc Unitkp

SvArvs . . . . . -77

MXVll. — To Mkssrs. Hknky Royi.k ani>

Others. January 41-11 ... S3

Advkx- :ibout OTnts;Tnting to tho Uiiitod
St. It OS.

MXVlll. — From Rouert R. Livingston', jani'--

ARY 7TH ...... 86

Suggt^stioiis ivspoctiug tho tonus ofpeaoo.
MXIX. — To Roni-RT Morris, January qth . 100
Allot hor warning agivinst aftor-olap do-
tn.mds.
MXX. — To David Harti.ky, January i^th . loi
No tiogotiatioi^s without tho concvirronce
ot Fi.moo — To sucoocd as a mediator, avoid
tho iiso of iiwidious expressions.
MXXl. To John Jay. January 15TH . . . no
MXXU. — To John Jay, January iQTH . . in
InoonvoTuonoo of drafts drawn by Con-
(:\css — Tho Dutoh Uxin — Oonrso of tho ootn-t
of Spain towards tho United States,
MXXIII. — To William Carmichael. January

:?;d 114

Money dit'ficnlties — John Jay — Spaiiish
ink — Lafayette.
MXXIV. — From David Hartley, January --4TH iiS
Correcting misapprehensions — Cases in
which the United States might treat separ-
atolv.
MXXV. — To Captain John Barry. January

-'4TH 1:^4

jMXXVI. — To Rov^ERT Morris. January .-Sth 1:5

l.afavotte's pressure for a new kxin.
MXXVU.— To Robert R. Livingston. January

-^Sth 1-6

MXXVllL — To GisTAVis Conyncham. February

OTH . . . . . . -I'?

Contents of Volume IX vii

PAGE

MXXIX. — To Captain John Barry, February

lOTH ...... 128

Request to take goods for the use of the
troops to America.
MXXX. — To John Adams, February i2TH . 130
MXXXI. — To Mr. Barclay, February i2TH . 131
New drafts and new embarrassments.
MXXXII. — From Robert R. Livingston, Feb-
ruary 13TH ..... 132

Presses for further assistance — American
prisoners in England — Disturbances in Ver-
mont and New Hampshire.
MXXXIII. — To David Hartley, February i6th . 136
Jealousies between England and France —
England must take the first step toward
peace — Lord Stormont's insolence.
MXXXIV. — From Edmund Burke, February

28TH 140

Revolution in the Commons — Mr. Laurens.
MXXXV. — To Count de Vergennes, March 3D . 142
MXXXVI. — To Robert Morris, March 4th . 143

A new loan of six million — Gillon — Cap-
tain Barry.
MXXXVII. — To Robert R. Livingston, March

4TH 147

Complaints from Holland, Denmark, and
Portugal — Lafayette — Emblematical medal
— Chevalier Luzerne — Cornwallis — Letters
of Deane.
MXXXVin. — To Robert R. Livingston March qth 153
Address of the Commons to the king
against prosecuting the war in America.
MXXXIX. — To Robert Morris, March qth . . 155
Great affairs and great men sometimes in-
fluenced by small matters — The sense of the
English nation against continuing the war
— The king's obstinacy.
MXL. — To John Jay, March i6th . . . 157
MXLL — From David Hartley, March 2ist . 158
Change of ministry.
MXLIL— To M. DE Rayneval, March 22D . 161

i Contents of Volume IX

PAGB

MXLIII.~To Jonathan Williams, March 23D . 161
MXLIV. — From John Adams, March 26th . 163

Interview with Digges — Opposes the plan
of a truce — Recognized as Minister Plenipo-
tentiary from the United States.
MXLV.— To Robert Morris, March 30TH . 166
Supplies for the army — Change of senti-
ment in England — Silas Deane's letters and
accounts.

MXLVI. — To Robert R. Livingston, March

30TH 170

Plan of the British ministry to separate
France and the United States.
MXLVII. — To John Adams, March 3 1ST . . 172
Digges' mission — Delays of Holland
and Spain.
MXLVIII. — To David Hartley, March 31ST . 173
MXLIX. — To William Hodgson, March 31ST . 174
ML. — To M. l'Abbe de St. Favre, March

31ST 175

An impostor that was worse than a simple
thief.
MLL — To George Washington, April 2d . 176
Introducing Count de Segur.
MLIL — ^To David Hartley, April 5TH . . 178
Digges — Commissioners ready to treat —
Reconciliation more than peace.
MLin. — From the Chevalier Delfino, April

6th 181

Announcing Franklin's election to the
Academy of Arts and Sciences in Padua.
MLIV. — To THE Chevalier de Chastellux,

April 6th 182

Ministerial change in England — Campaign
in America — Count de Segur.
MLV. — To Madam Greene, April 7TH . . 183
MLVL — To George Washington, April 8th . 184
Presenting the Dtike de Broglie.
MLVIL — To Robert R. Livingston, April 8th 185
Extraordinary revolution of opinion in
England — The Duke de Broglie.
Contents of Volume IX ix

PAGE

MLVIII.— To Robert Morris, April 8th . . 187

Change of ministry— Holland— De Broglie.
MUX.— To Henry Laurens, April 1 2TH . 188
MLX.— From M. de Rayneval, April i2TH . 189
Proposal of the EngUsh ministry for a se-
parate treaty with France.
MLXI.— To Robert R. Livingston, April

I2TH

Holland— Spain— Portugal.

]y[LXII. ^To Mrs. Mary Hewson, April 13TH . 193

MLXIIL— To David Hartley, April 13TH . i94

Insincerity of the late ministry.
MLXIV.— To John Adams, April 13TH . . i95
Canada offered to France to induce her to
treat separately.
MLXV.— To David Hartley, April 14TH . 196

MLXVL— To Mrs. Stevenson and Mrs. Hew-
son, April 19TH . . • • ^97
MLXVIL— To John Jay, April 22D . . • 198
MLXVIII.— To John Jay, April 24TH . . . i99
Recommends him to come to Paris.

MLXIX.— From David Hartley, May 1ST. . 200
The late ministry— Its proposals for peace
and their signification.

MLXX.— To M. Dumas, May 3D . • • 208

Enghsh barbarities.

MLXXL— To A Friend, May 8th .. • 209

Cowper and his poems.

MLXXII— From Robert R. Livingston, May

22D 210

Affairs in the United States.

MLXXIIL— To Mrs. Mary Hewson, June . . 213

If safe for him to go to England.
MLXXIV.— To Joseph Priestley, June 7TH . 214
Man's inhumanity to man— An apologue
—The Count du Nord— At the Academy
of Science — Mr. Lavoisier.
MLXXV.— To Dr. Shipley, June ioth . . 217
No such thing as a good war or a bad
peace.

Contents of Volume IX

PAGE

MLXXVI. — To Mrs. Mary Hewson, June 13TH . 219
The Countess de Genlis — Madame de For-
bach — Troubles in Geneva.
MLXXVII. — To Richard Price, June 13TH . . 220
Effect of his writings — Influence of the
press.
MLXXVIII. — From John Adams, June 13TH . . 222
British ministry — The Dutch — John Jay
— Russia's policy.
MLXXIX. — To John Ingenhousz, June 2ist . 224
Lavoisier — American affairs.

MLXXX, — To Miss Alexander, June. . . 226
MLXXXI. — ^To John Ingenhousz .... 228
An attempt to explain the effects of light-
ning on the vane of the steeple of a church
in Cremona.
MLXXXII. — The Leyden Phial and M. Volta's

Experiment ..... 238
MLXXXIII. — Militia Preferable to Regular

Troops 239

Abbe Morellet's questions and Dr. Frank-
lin's answers.
MLXXXIV. — A Lecture on the Providence of
God in the Government of the
World ...... 240

MLXXXV. — Journal of the Negotiations for
Peace with Great Britain from
March 21 to July i, 1782 . . 248
MLXXXVI. — To Henry Laurens, July 2D . . 372
Delay in opening the negotiation — Doubts
of the sincerity of the British ministry.
MLXXXVIL — To James Hutton, July 7TH . . 377
The Moravian Indians.
MLXXXVIII. — To THE Marquis de Lafayette, July

9TH 379

Death of Rockingham.
MLXXXIX.— To David Hartley, July ioth . . 380
Delay in opening negotiations — The MS.
of a French peasant.
MXC. — ^To Benjamin Vaughan, July I ith . 382

Contents of Volume IX xi

PAGB

MXCI. — To Richard Oswald, July i2TH . 385

Mr. Fox's resignation.
MXCII. — To THE Earl of Shelburne, July

I2TH 386

Congratulations upon his appointment to
the Treasury.
MXCIII. — To Count de Vergennes, July i8th 388
MXCIV. — To Count de Vergennes, July 24TH 390
MXCV. — To the Marquis de Lafayette, July

^4TH 391

MXCVI. — From Count de Vergennes, July

28TH 3P2

MXCVIL— To Richard Oswald, July 28th . 393
Affair of Capt. Asgill— Justification of the
proceedings against him.
MXCVIII.— Certificate of Conyngham's Com-
mission, August 7TH . . . 30^
MXCXIX. — To Count de Vergennes, August 8th 396
Mr. Oswald's commission to treat.
MC. — From Count de Vergennes, August

f^« 397

Invites Franklin and Jay to a conference.

MCI. — From Robert R. Livingston, Au-
gust 9TH 400

Sir Guy Carleton and Admiral Digby.
MCn. — To Robert R. Livingston, August

I2TH 402

Accounts between France and the United
States— Sweden ready to treat— Medal com-
memorative of the victories of Saratoga and
Yorktown— Monument to General Montgom-
ery— Mr. Laurens.
MCin. — To Robert Morris, August i2Th . 411

Difficulty in getting more supplies— Beau-
marchais' account — United States funds in
Europe.

MCIV.— To Mrs. Mary Hewson, August 17TH 415
MCV.— To Count de Vergennes, August

24TH 416

xii Contents of Volume IX

PAGE

MCVI. — To Robert R. Livingston, Septem-
ber 3D ..... . 417

Allowance to William Temple Franklin
— Salaries of foreign ministers — Contingent
expenses.
MCVII. — To John Jay, September 4TH . .421
MCVIII. — From Richard Oswald, September

5TH ....... 422

MCIX. — To Richard Oswald, September 8th 426
MCX. — To Count de Vergennes, September

8th 428

MCXI. — To Sir Joseph Banks, President of
the Royal Society of London,
September qth .... 429
MCXn. — To the Earl of Grantham, Septem-
ber iiTH 430

MCXin. — To David Hartley, September 17TH 431
MCXIV. — Information for Those Who Would

Remove to America . . . 432

CORRESPONDENCE

AND

MISCELLANEOUS WRITINGS

VOL. IX. 1.

CORRESPONDENCE

AND

MISCELLANEOUS WRITINGS

DCCCCLXXXIII

FROM ROBERT MORRIS

Philadelphia, 13 July, 1781.

Sir : — ^The unanimous appointment to the superin-
tendency of our finances, with which Congress has
honored me, and my conviction of the necessity
that some one person should endeavor to introduce
method and economy into the administration of
affairs, have induced me, though with reluctance, to
accept that office.^ Mr. Jay will receive by this con-
veyance, and forward to you, copies of those resolu-
tions and letters which may be necessary to explain
my appointment and powers,

I wish I could as readily effect, as I most ardently
desire, the accomplishment of all proper arrange-
ments. Thoroughly convinced that no country is

I Mr. Morris was appointed Superintendent of Finance on the 20th
of February, 1781, but did not engage in the duties of the office till
May following.
4 The Works of [1781

truly independent, until, with her own credit and
resources, she is able to defend herself and correct
her enemies, it shall be my constant endeavor to
establish our credit and draw out our resources in
such manner, that we may be little burdensome and
essentially useful to our friends.

I am sure I need not mention to you the import-
ance of collecting a revenue with ease, and expending
it with economy. As little need I detail the time,
the authority, the ability, the favorable circum-
stances, that must combine for these purposes. But
I think that I may assert that the situation of a
country, just emerging from dependence and strug-
gling for existence, is peculiarly unfavorable; and I
may add that this country, by relying too much on
paper, is in a condition of peculiar disorder and
debility. To rescue and restore her is an object
equal to my warmest wishes, though probably be-
yond the stretch of my abilities.

Success will greatly depend on the pecuniary aid
we may obtain from abroad; because money is
necessary to introduce economy, while, at the same
time, economy is necessary to obtain money; be-
sides that, a greater plenty of solid circulating
medium is required to support those operations
which must give stability to our credit, fruitfulness to
our revenue, and activity to our operations. Among
those things which, after the experience and example
of other ages and nations, I have been induced to
adopt, is that of a national bank, the plan of which
I enclose. I mean to render this a principal pillar
of American credit, so as to obtain the money of

1781] Benjamin Franklin 5

individuals for the benefit of the Union, and thereby
bind those individuals more strongly to the general
cause by the ties of private interest. To the efficacy
of this plan, as well as to the establishment of a
mint, which would also be of use, a considerable
sum of money is necessary, and, indeed, it is indis-
pensably so for many other purposes.

Be not alarmed, sir, from what I have said, with
the apprehension that I am about to direct solicita-
tions to the court of Versailles; which, after the
repeated favors they have conferred, must be pe-
culiarly disagreeable. On the contrary, as I am
convinced that the moneys of France will all be use-
fully employed in the vigorous prosecution of the
war by her own fleets and armies, I lament every
sum which is diverted from them. Our necessities
have, indeed, called for her aid, and perhaps they
may continue to do so. Those calls have hitherto
been favorably attended to, and the pressure of our
necessities has been generously alleviated; nor do
I at all doubt that future exigencies will excite the
same dispositions in our favor, and that those dis-
positions will be followed with correspondent effects.
But I again repeat my wish, at once to render
America independent of, and useful to, her friends.

With these views, I have directed Mr. Jay to ask
a considerable sum from the court of Madrid, to be
advanced us at the Havana, and brought thence by
us, if it cannot conveniently be landed here from
Spanish men-of-war. I say a considerable suniy be-
cause, as I have declared to him, I do not wish to
labor under the weight of obligation without deriving

6 The Works of [1781

from it any real benefit, and because I consider the
advance of small sums rather as a temporary pallia-
tion than a radical remedy. Our disorders are such
that the former can be of no use, and it would be
better to desist in a desultory defence than to put
on the delusive appearance of a vigor we do not feel ;
for this lulls the people into a dangerous security,
and softens those hopes of the enemy which give
duration and extent to the war. It is the disorder
of our finances which has prevented us from a power-
ful co-operation with our allies, and which has en-
abled the enemy to linger on our coasts with the
dregs of a force once formidable ; and it is from this
cause that they have been permitted to extend the
theatre, and multiply the victims, of their ambition.
America alone will not derive benefit from the
advances which Spain may make to her. All the
associates in the war will feel the consequential ad-
vantages. The expense of the American war now
hangs a heavy weight around Britain, and enfeebles
her on that element which she called her own. An
increase of that expense, or the loss of her posts
here, must necessarily follow from additional efforts
on our part; and either of these must be a conse-
quential benefit to those who are opposed to her.
France will derive a small immediate benefit from it,
as she will thereby get more money here for her
bills of exchange than she can at present procure.
But it is not so much from any advantage which may
be expected to that kingdom, or from any motives
of interest, as from the generosity and magnanimity
of the prince, that we hope for support. I will not

i78i] Benjamin Franklin 7

doubt a moment that, at yotir instance, his Majesty
will make pressing representations in support of Mr.
Jay's appHcation, and I hope that the authority of
so great a sovereign, and the arguments of his able
ministry, will shed auspicious influence on our nego-
tiations at Madrid.

From the best returns I have been able to collect,
and which are in some measure imperfect, from the
confusions and disasters of the Southern States, I
find that there are about seven million two hundred
thousand dollars due on certificates, which bear an
interest of six per cent., payable in France at the
rate of five livres for every dollar. Many causes
have conspired to depreciate the certificates, not-
withstanding the interest is so well secured and has
been punctually paid. This depreciation is so great
that they are daily offered for sale at a very consider-
able discount, which is attended with two pernicious
consequences: one, that a considerable expense is
unnecessarily incurred; and the other, that the pub-
lic credit is unnecessarily impaired. If I had the
means, therefore, I would remove this evil by pur-
chasing in the certificates ; and to procure this means
I am to pray that you would state this matter fully
to the ministers of his most Christian Majesty. The
interest being guaranteed by the court of France,
they now pay for this purpose two million one hun-
dred and sixty thousand livres annually, a sum
which in less than ten years would pay a debt of
fifteen millions of livres at five per cent, interest.
With fifteen millions of livres, however, prudently
managed, the whole of these certificates might be

8 The Works of [1781

paid. I am sure it is unnecessary to dwell on the
advantages which would result from making such a
loan for this purpose ; and I tnist that if this matter
is stated to M. Necker that enlightened minister will
co-operate in the plan to the utmost of his ability.
I again repeat that I do not wish to lay any burdens
on France ; but this proposal is calculated to relieve
us both; and, in any case, the expense to France
will be the same. Should it be adopted, I must
request the earliest notice, that my operations may
commence; and, in any case, I hope that secrecy
will be observed, for the most evident reasons.

I am sorry to inform you that we have as yet no
satisfactory news of the ship Lafayette; but, on the
contrary, her long delay occasions the most alarming
apprehensions. If, as but too probable, that ship is
lost, you will more easily conceive than I can describe
what will be the situation of our troops next winter.

I could wish, as soon as possible, to have a state
of all the public accounts transmitted, to the end
that moneys due to the United States may be paid,
and measures taken to provide for such sums as they
stand indebted in to others. Your Excellency will,
I dare say, send them as soon as may be convenient;
and I hope the public affairs will hereafter be con-
ducted in such a manner as to give you much less of
that unnecessary trouble which you have hitherto
experienced, and which could not but have harassed
you exceedingly, and perhaps taken up time which
would otherwise have been devoted to more impor-
tant objects.

I shall probably have frequent occasion to address

1781] Benjamin Franklin 9

you, and shall always be happy to hear from you;
but the mischiefs which arise from having letters
intercepted are great and alarming. I have, there-
fore, enclosed you a cipher, and in the dupHcate of
my letters I shall enclose you another. If both
arrive, you will use one; and, in case of your ab-
sence, leave the other with such person as may
supply your place. Let me know, however, which
cipher you use.

The bearer of this letter, Major Franks, formerly
an aide-de-camp to General Arnold, and honorably
acquitted of all connection with him, after a full and
impartial inquiry, will be able to give you our pub-
lic news more particularly than I could relate them.
He sails hence for Cadiz, and on his arrival will pro-
ceed to Madrid, where, having delivered my letters
to Mr. Jay, he will take his orders for you. ' He will
then wait your orders, and, I hope, will soon after
meet a safe opportunity of coming to America. With
the most perfect esteem and regard, I have the honor
to be, etc.,

Robert Morris.

DCCCCLXXXIV

TO FELIX VICQ d'AZYR *

Passy, 20 July, 1781,

Sir:— I received the letter you some time since
did me the honor of writing to me, accompanied with
a number of the pieces that were distributed at the

» Physician to the Queen of France.

lo The Works of [1781

last public meeting of the Royal Society of Medi-
cine. I shall take care to forward them to different
parts of America, as desired. Be pleased to present
my thanks to the society for the copy sent me of the
curious and useful reports relating to the sepulture
in the island of Malta. I should be glad of another
copy, if it can be spared, being desirous of sending
one to each of the philosophical societies in America.

With respect to the length of time during which
the power of infection may be contained in dead
bodies, which is considered in that report, I would
mention to you three facts which, though not all of
equal importance or weight, yet methinks it may be
well to preserve a memorandum of them, that such
observations may be made, when occasion offers, as
are proper to confirm or invalidate them.

While I resided in England, I read in a newspaper
that in a country village at the funeral of a woman
whose husband had died of the small-pox thirty
years before, and whose grave was dug so as to place
her by his side, the neighbors attending the funeral
were offended with the smell arising out of the grave,
occasioned by a breach in the husband's old coffin,
and twenty-five of them, were in a few days taken
ill with that distemper, which before was not in that
village or its neighborhood, nor had been for the
number of years above mentioned.

About the years 1763 or 1764, several physicians
of London, who had been present from curiosity, at
the dissection of an Egyptian mummy, were soon
after taken ill of a malignant fever, of which they
died. Opinions were divided on this question. It

i78i] Benjamin Franklin "

was thought by some that the fever was caused by
infection from the mummy, in which case the disease
it died of must have been embahned as well as the
body. Others who considered the length of time,
at least two thousand years, since that body died,
and also that the embalming must be rather sup-
posed to destroy the power of infection, imagmed
the illness of these gentlemen must have had another
origin. _

About the year 1773^ the captam of a ship, which
had been at the island of Teneriffe, brought from
thence the dried body of one of the ancient inhabi-
tants of that island, which must have been at least
three hundred years old, that custom of drying the
dead there having been so long discontinued. Two
members of the Royal Society went to see that body.
They were half an hour in a small close room with it,
examining it very particularly. The next day they
were both affected with a singularly violent cold,^
attended with uncommon circumstances, which con-
tinued a long time. On comparing together the par-
ticulars of their disorder, they agreed in suspecting
that possibly some effluvia from the body might
have been the occasion of that disorder in them
both; perhaps they were mistaken. But, as we do
not yet know with certainty how long the power of
infection may in some bodies be retained, it seems
well in such cases to be cautious till further Ught
shall be obtained.

I wish it were in my power to contribute more

I Cold is a general name given by the EngUsh to all sorts of rheums
and catarrhs. — F.

12 The Works of [1781

essentially in advancing the good work the society
are so laudably engaged in. Perhaps some useful
hints may be extracted from the enclosed paper of
Mr. Small's.' It is submitted to your judgment;
and if you should find any thing in it worthy of
being communicated to the society, and of which
extracts may be useful if printed in the memoirs,
it will be a pleasure to me ; who am, with great es-
teem and respect, sir, etc.,

B. Franklin.

P. S. July 24th. — Since writing the above, I have
met with the following article in the Courier de V Eu-
rope of the 1 3th instant, viz. :

Extract of a Letter from Edinburgh, dated June 2>^th

"I understand by a person just returned from
Montrose that the epidemic fever, which has made
its appearance in the county of Mearns, ravages that
neighborhood with such violence that one of his
friends was invited to attend fifteen funerals on the
same day. It is said that this malady originated in
the ill-judged curiosity of some country people, who,
at Candlemas last, opened the graves of some per-
sons who had died of the plague in the preceding
century, and who had been buried in the Moss of
Arnhall. The circumstances which have happened
in the family of Mr. Robert Aikenhead are singularly
unfortunate; about the middle of last month he
took the infection, which was communicated to the
rest of his family, consisting of nine persons ; two of

I The article on Ventilation, by Mr. Small, Vol. V., p. 105.

1781] Benjamin Franklin 13

whom, together with himself, are dead, and the
others not out of danger."

DCCCCLXXXV

TO ROBERT MORRIS

Passy, 26 July, 1781.

Dear Sir: — I have just received your very-
friendly letter of the 6th of June past, announcing
your appointment to the superintendence of our
finances. This gave me great pleasure, as , from your
intelligence, integrity, and abilities, there is reason to
hope every advantage that the public can possibly
receive from such an office. You are wise in estimat-
ing beforehand, as the principal advantage you can
expect, the consciousness of having done service to
your country ; for the business you have undertaken
is of so complex a nature, and must engross so much
of your time and attention, as necessarily to injure
your private interests; and the public is often nig-
gardly, even of its thanks, while you are sure of be-
ing censured by malevolent critics and bug-writers,
who will abuse you while you are serving them,
and wound your character in nameless pamphlets;
thereby resembling those little dirty insects that at-
tack us only in the dark, disturb our repose, molest-
ing and wounding us, while our sweat and blood are
contributing to their subsistence. Every assistance
that my situation here, as long as it continues, may
enable me to afford you, shall certainly be given;

14 The Works of [1781

for, besides my affection for the glorious cause we
are both engaged in, I value myself upon your
friendship, and shall be happy if mine can be made
of any use to you.

With great and sincere esteem, I am ever, dear
sir, etc., B. Franklin.

P. S. — ^With this I shall send an answer to your
official letter of June 8th.

DCCCCLXXXVI

TO ROBERT MORRIS

Passy, 26 Jtily, 1781.

Dear Sir: — I have received the letter you hon-
ored me with, of the 8th of June past,^ acquainting
me that, as Superintendent of Finance, you have
named Messrs. Couteulx & Co., at Paris, to receive
from his Majesty's ministers the money granted to
Congress, that they may be enabled to honor your
bills whenever they appear; and you intimate a
desire to be informed of the responsibility of that
house.

With regard to the six millions given by the king
in aid of our operations for the present campaign,
before the arrival of Mr. Laurens, two millions five
hundred thousand of it went in the same ship with
him in cash; stores equivalent to two millions two
hundred thousand more of it were ordered by him
and are shipped ; one million five hundred thousand

I See Diplomatic Correspondence, Vol. XI., p. 370.

1781] Benjamin Franklin 15

was sent to Holland, to go in the ship commanded
by Commodore Gillon. Add to this, that Captain
Jackson, by his orders, purchased clothing and stores
in Holland to the value of about fifty thousand
pounds sterling, for which he has drawn bills on
me, which bills I accepted, and also agreed to pay
those drawn on Messrs. Laurens, Jay, and Adams;
expecting aid from a projected loan of ten millions
of livres for our use in Holland. But, this loan meet-
ing with unforeseen difficulties, and its success un-
certain, I have found myself obliged to stop the
money in Holland, in order to be able to save the
honor of the Congress drafts, and to comply with
my engagements.

By these means you have really at present no
funds here to draw upon. I hope, however, that
Messrs. Couteulx & Co. will be enabled to honor your
drafts; but I trust in your prudence that you will
draw no more till you have advice of funds provided.
And, as the laying out so much money in Holland
instead of France is disapproved here, and the pay-
ment will, therefore, not be provided for, I must
earnestly request your aid in remitting that sum to
me before December next, when my acceptances will
become due, otherwise I shall be ruined with the
American credit in Europe.

With regard to the wealth and credit of the house
of Le Couteulx & Co., I have never heard it in ques-
tion. But as Mr. Ferdinand Grand, banker at Paris,
and his brother, Sir George Grand, banker in Hol-
land, have been our zealous and firm friends ever
since our arrival in France, have aided us greatly by

1 6 The Works of [1781

their personal interest and solicitations, and have
often been six or seven hundred thousand livres in
advance for us, and are houses of unquestionable
solidity, I cannot but be concerned at any step for
taking our business out of their hands, and wish
your future bills may be drawn on Ferdinand Grand;
for I think it concerns our public reputation to
preserve the character of gratitude, as well as that
of honesty and justice. The commission hitherto
charged to us by Mr. Grand for receiving and paying
our money is a half per cent., which, considering the
trouble given by the vast number of small drafts for
interest of the loans, appears to me a moderate con-
sideration. With great and sincere esteem, I have
the honor to be, dear sir, etc.,

B. Franklin.

DCCCCLXXXVII

TO JOHN ADAMS

Passy, 6 August, 1781.

Sir: — I some time since gave orders, as you de-
sired, to Mr. Grand to furnish you with a credit in
Holland for the remainder of your salary to Novem-
ber next. But I am now told that, your account
having been mixed with Mr. Dana's, he finds it diffi-
cult to know the sum due to you. Be pleased there-
fore to state your account for two years, giving credit
for the sums you have received, that an order may
be made for the balance. Upon this occasion it is
right to acquaint you that I do not think we can

1781] Benjamin Franklin 17

depend on receiving any more money here, applic-
able to the support of the Congress ministers.

What aids are hereafter granted will probably be
transmitted by the government directly to America.
It will therefore be proper to inform Congress, that
care may be taken to furnish their servants by re-
mittances from thence. I have the honor to be, etc.,

B. Franklin.

DCCCCLXXXVIII

TO CHARLES W. F. DUMAS

Passy, 6 August, 1781.

Dear Sir: — I received several letters from you
lately, enclosing others for the President of Con-
gress, and for Spain, all of which are sealed and for-
warded, except the last for the President, contained
in yours of the 26th past, which shall go by the first
opportunity. The reading of those letters gave me
much information, and therefore pleasure; though,
since the fixing of Mr. Adams there, I do not attend
so much to the affairs of your country as before,
expecting indeed but little from it to our advantage ;
for, though it was formerly in the same situation
with us, and was glad of assistance from other na-
tions, it does not seem to feel for us, or to have the
least inclination to help us; it appears to want
magnanimity.

Some writer, I forget who, says that Holland is
no longer a nation, but a great shop; and I begin
to think it has no other principles or sentiments but

i8 The Works of [1781

those of a shopkeeper. You can judge of it better
than I, and I shall be happy to find myself mistaken.
You will oblige me, however, by continuing the
history either directly to me or in yoiu- letters to
Congress; but when you enclose a sealed letter in
another to me, please to observe to place the second
seal on one side, and not directly over the first;
because the heat of the second is apt to deface the
impression of the first, and to attach the paper to it,
so as to endanger tearing the enclosed in opening
the cover. With best wishes for your health and
prosperity, I am ever, dear sir, etc.

B. Franklin.

P. S. — I pity the writer of the enclosed, though I
have no other acquaintance with him than having
seen him once at Hanover, where he then seemed to
live genteelly and in good credit. I cannot conceive
what should reduce him to such a situation as to
engage himself for a soldier. If you can procure him
any friends among the philosophers of your country
capable of relieving him, I wish you would do it. If
not, and he must go to the Indies, please to give him
three or four guineas for me, to buy a few necessaries
for his voyage.

DCCCCLXXXIX

TO CHARLES W. F. DUMAS

Passy, 10 August, 1 781.

Dear Sir: — Enclosed I send you a late paper re-
ceived from Rhode Island. You will see in it the

1781] Benjamin Franklin 19

advantages our troops have gained in South Caro-
lina. Late advices directly from Philadelphia say
that the enemy have now nothing left in Georgia
but Savannah; in South Carolina but Charleston;
nor in North Carolina but Wilmington. They are,
however, in force in Virginia, where M. de Lafayette
has not sufficient strength to oppose them, till the
arrival of reinforcements, which were on their march
to join him from Maryland and Pennsylvania.

In looking over my last to you, I apprehend I may
have expressed myself perhaps a little too hardly of
your country ; I foresee you will tell me that we have
many friends there; I once thought so too; but I
was a little out of humor when I wrote, on under-
standing that no loan could be obtained there for
our use, though the credit of this kingdom was offered
to be engaged for assuring the payment, and so much
is lent freely to our enemies. You can best tell the
reason; it will be well not to let my letter be seen.
I am ever, dear sir, etc.,

B. Franklin.

DCCCCXC

TO WILLIAM CARMICHAEL

Passy, 24 August, 1781.

Dear Sir: — On looking over your letters, I am
ashamed to find myself so much and so long in your
debt. I thank you for making me acquainted with
M. Sonnerat. He appears a very amiable man, and
is full of intelligence and information.

20 The Works of [1781

We are all much obliged to Count de Montmorin '
for his friendly assistance in our affairs. Please to
present to him my thankful acknowledgments. I
thank you also for my being made known to M.
Giusti ; I saw him often, and had much satisfaction
and pleasure in his conversation.

The Congress have done me the honor to refuse
accepting my resignation, and insist on my continu-
ing in their service till the peace. I must therefore
buckle again to business, and thank God that my
health and spirits are of late improved. I fancy it
may have been a double mortification to those
enemies you have mentioned to me, that I should
ask as a favor what they hoped to vex me by taking
from me; and that I should nevertheless be con-
tinued. But this sort of considerations should never
influence our conduct. We ought always to do what
appears best to be done, without much regarding
what others may think of it. I call this continuance
an honor, and I really esteem it to be a greater than
my first appointment, when I consider that all the
interest of my enemies, united with my own request,
were not sufficient to prevent it.'

^ French Ambassador in Spain.

2 On this subject Dr. FrankUn once wrote to another friend: " Your
comparison of the keystone of an arch is very pretty, tending to make
me content with my situation. But I suppose you have heard our
story of the harrow; if not, here it is. A farmer, in our covmtry, sent
two of his servants to borrow one of a neighbor, ordering them to
bring it between them on their shoulders. When they came to look
at it, one of them, who had much wit and cunning, said: 'What could
our master mean by sending only two men to bring this harrow ? No
two men upon earth are strong enough to carry it.' 'Poh!' said the
other, who was vain of his strength, 'what do you talk of two men?
One man can carry it. Help it up on my shoulders and see.' As he

1781] Benjamin Franklin 21

I have not yet received the works of your Eco-
nomical Society, or those of its founder. I suppose
you have not met with an opportunity of sending
them. The letter you propose sending to our Phi-
losophical Society will be very acceptable to them.
I shall be glad to peruse the copy you propose pass-
ing through my hands. Yours,

B. Franklin.

DCCCCXCI

TO WILLIAM NIXON *

Passy, 5 September, 1781.

Reverend Sir: — I duly received the letter you did
me the honor of writing to me the 25th past, together
with the valuable little book, of which you are the
author. There can be no doubt but that a gentle-
man of your learning and abilities might make a
very useful member of society in our new country,
and meet with encouragement there, either as an in-
structor in one of our universities, or as a clergyman
of the Church of Ireland. But I am not empowered
to engage any person to go over thither, and my
abilities to assist the distressed are very limited. I

proceeded with it, the wag kept exclaiming, ' Zounds, how strong you
are! I could not have thought it! Why, you are a Samson! There
is no such another man in America! What amazing strength God has
given you! But you will kill yourself! Pray put it down and rest a
little, or let me bear a part of the weight.' 'No, no,' said he, being
more encouraged by the compliments than oppressed by the burden;
'you shall see I can carry it quite home.' An so he did. In this
particular I am afraid my part of the imitation will fall short of the
original."

^ An English clergyman, prisoner on parole, at Valognes.

22 The Works of [1781

suppose you will soon be set at liberty in England
by the cartel for the exchange of prisoners. In the
meantime, if five louis-d'ors will be of present service
to you, please to draw on me for that sum, and your
bill shall be paid on sight. Some time or other you
may have an opportunity of assisting with an equal
sum a stranger who has equal need of it. Do so.
By that means you will discharge any obligation you
may suppose yourself under to me. Enjoin him to
do the same on occasion. By pursuing such a prac-
tice, much good may be done with little money. Let
kind offices go round. Mankind are all of a family.
I have the honor to be, reverend sir, etc.,

B. Franklin.

DCCCCXCII

TO ROBERT MORRIS

Passy, 12 September, 1781.

Dear Sir:-— I have received your letters of July
13th, 14th, 19th, and 2ist, all at once, by way of
L' Orient. The originals of those you mention to
have sent by Major Franks are not yet come to hand,
nor have I heard of his arrival in Spain. Your letters
of June 6th and 8th were remarkably lucky in get-
ting to hand. I think I have received seven of the
copies you had the precaution to send me. I en-
close copies of my answers.

I have now the pleasure to acquaint you that I
have obtained a promise of the sum I wanted to pay
the bills I had accepted for the purchases made in
Holland; so that your supplying me with remit-

r78i] Benjamin Franklin 23

tances for that purpose, which I requested, is now
unnecessary, and I shall finish the year with honor.
But it is as much as I can do, with the aid of the
sum I stopped in Holland; the drafts on Mr. Jay
and on Mr. Adams much exceeding what I had been
made to expect.

I had been informed that the Congress had pro-
mised to draw no more bills on Europe after the
month of March last, till they should know they
had funds here; but I learn from Mr. Adams that
some bills have been lately presented to him, drawn
June 2 2d, on Mr. Laurens, who is in the Tower,
which makes the proceeding seem extraordinary.
Mr. Adams cannot pay these bills, and I cannot en-
gage for them; for I see by the minutes of Congress
you have sent me that, though they have stopped
issuing bills drawn on the ministers at Madrid and
the Hague until they shall be assured that funds are
provided for paying them, they have left open to be
sold those drawn on their minister at Versailles, funds
or no funds ; which, in the situation you will see I am
in by the letters of the Count de Vergennes, terrifies
me; for I have promised not to accept any drafts
made on me by order of Congress, if such should be
after the time above mentioned, unless I have funds
in my hands, or in view, to pay them. After its being
declared to me that such bills could not be provided
for, and my promise not to engage for them, it will
be impossible to ask for the money, if I should
accept them; and I believe those bills of Mr. Ross
must go back protested.

The projected loan in Holland has of late some

24 The Works of [1781

appearances of success. I am indeed told it is agreed
to by the States ; but I do not yet think it so certain
as to venture, or advise the venturing, to act in ex-
pectation of it. The instant it is assured, I will send
you advice of it by every opportunity, and will, from
time to time, send parts of it in cash by such ships
of war as can conveniently take it.

I cannot write to you fully by this opportunity. I
will not, however, delay acquainting you that, hav-
ing the fullest confidence in your assurances of
enabling me to pay them, I shall cheerfully accept
your bills of four hundred thousand livres. Captain
Gillon has sailed from Holland, without taking under
his convoy the two vessels that were freighted to
carry the goods purchased by Captain Jackson in
Holland. There has been terrible management
there; and from the confusion in the ship before
and when she sailed, it is a question if she ever
arrives in America.

They are hard at work here in providing the sup-
plies to replace those lost in the Marquis de Lafay-
ette. With best wishes of success to you in your new
employment, and assurances of every aid I can
afford you, I am, dear sir, etc.,

B. Franklin.

DCCCCXCni

TO THE PRESIDENT OF CONGRESS

Passy, 13 September, 1781.

SiRi^I duly received the two letters your Excel-
lency did me the honor of writing to me, both dated

1781] Benjamin Franklin 25

the 19th of June, together with the letter addressed
to the king and the three commissioners with the
instructions relative to the negotiations for peace. I
immediately went to Versailles and presented the
letter, which was graciously received. I communi-
cated also to Count de Vergennes a copy of your
instructions after having deciphered them. He read
them while I was with him, and expressed his satis-
faction with the unreserved confidence placed in his
court by the Congress, assuring me that they never
would have cause to regret it, for that the king had
the honor of the United States at heart, as well as
their welfare and independence. Indeed, this has
already been manifested in the negotiations relative
to the plenipotentiaries ; and I have had so much ex-
perience of his Majesty's goodness to us, in the aids
afforded us from time to time, and of the sincerity
of this upright and able minister, who never promised
me any thing which he did not punctually perform,
that I cannot but think the confidence well and ju-
diciously placed, and that it will have happy effects.
I have communicated to Mr. Adams and to Mr.
Jay the purport of your despatches. Mr. Adams
already had received the same ; by the first safe con-
veyance, I shall acquaint the Congress with the steps
that have been taken in the negotiation. At present
I would only say that the settling of preliminaries
meets with difficulty, and will probably take much
time, partly from the remoteness of the mediators;
so that any relaxation of our warlike preparations,
in expectation of a speedy peace, will be imprudent,
as it may be pernicious.

26 The Works of [1781

I am extremely sensible of the honor done me by
the Congress in this new appointment. I beg they
would accept my thankful acknowledgments; and,
since they judge I may be serviceable, though I had
requested leave to retire, I submit dutifully to their
determination, and shall do my utmost to merit in
some degree the favorable opinion they appear to
have of me. I am the more encouraged in this reso-
lution, as within the last three months I find my
health and strength considerably re-established.

I wish, however, that the consul-general may soon
be appointed for this kingdom; it would ease me of
abundance of troublesome business, to which I am
not equal, and which interferes with my own import-
ant functions.

The king having graciously complied with my
request, of replacing the supplies lost in the Mar-
quis de Lafayette, many hands are employed in pro-
viding them, who work hard to have them ready
and shipped so that they arrive before winter. With
the highest respect, I have the honor to be, etc.,

B. Franklin.

P. S. — ^The copying machine for Mr. Secretary-
Thomson is in hand, and will soon be finished and
sent to him.

DCCCCXCIV

TO DANIEL OF ST. THOMAS JENIFER ^

Passy, 13 September, 1781.

Sir: — I received the very obliging letter you did
me the honor of writing to me the 20th of June last.

^ Member of Congress from Maryland.

1781] Benjamin Franklin 27

It gave me great satisfaction to find, by the unani-
mous choice you mention, that my services had not
been unacceptable to Congress; and to hear also
that they were favorably disposed towards my grand-
son, Temple Franklin. It was my desire to quit
public business, fearing it might suffer in my hands
through the infirmities incident to my time of life.
But, as they are pleased to think I may still be use-
ful, I submit to their judgment, and shall do my best.
I immediately forwarded the letter you enclosed
for Mr. Lowndes; and if in any thing else I can do
you service or pleasure here, please to command me
freely. I have the honor to be, with great regard,
sir, etc., B. Franklin.

DCCCCXCV

TO RICHARD BACHE

Passy, 13 September, 1781.

Dear Son: — I received yours of June 20th. It
gave me great pleasure, as it informed me of the
welfare of yourself and the dear family.

I have read Mr. Wharton's pamphlet. The facts,
as far as I know them, are as he states them. Jus-
tice is, I think, on the side of those who contracted
for the lands. ' But moral and political rights some-
times differ, and sometimes are both subdued by
might. I received, and thank you for, several copies
of the Indian Spelling Book. I received also the
German and English newspapers.

^ The Indiana grant.

28 The Works of [1781

Among my papers in the trunk, which I unhappily
left in the care of Mr. Galloway, were eight or ten
quire or two-quire books, of rough drafts of my let-
ters, containing all my correspondence when in Eng-
land, for near twenty years. I shall be very sorry
if they too are lost. Do not you think it possible,
by going up into that country, and inquiring a little
among the neighbors, you might possibly hear of
and recover some of them. I should not have left
them in his hands if he had not deceived me by say-
ing that though he was before otherwise inclined,
yet that, since the king had declared us out of his
protection, and the Parliament by an act had made
our properties plunder, he would go as far in the
defence of his country as any man, and accordingly
he had lately, with pleasure, given colors to a regi-
ment of militia, and an entertainment to four hun-
dred of them before his house. I thought he was
become a staunch friend to the glorious cause. I
was mistaken. As he was a friend of my son's, to
whom in my will I had left all my books and papers,
I made him one of my executors, and put the trunk
of papers in his hands, imagining them safer in his
house (which was out of the way of any probable
march of the enemy's troops) than in my own. It
was very unlucky.

My love to Sally and the children. I shall soon
write to all my friends. At present I am pinched in
time, and can only add that I am ever your affec-
tionate father,

B. Franklin.

i78i] Benjamin Franklin 29

DCCCCXCVI

TO FRANCIS HOPKINSON

Passy, 13 September, 1781,

Dear Sir:— I have received your kind letter of
Jtily 17th, with its dupHcate, enclosing those for
Messrs. Brandlight & Sons, which I have forwarded.
I am sorry for the loss of the Squibs. Every thing
of yours gives me pleasure.

As to the friends and enemies you just mention, I
have hitherto, thanks to God, had plenty of the
former kind; they have been my treasure, and it
has perhaps been of no disadvantage to me that I
have had a few of the latter. They serve to put us
upon correcting the faults we have, and avoiding
those we are in danger of having. They counteract
the mischief flattery might do us, and the malicious
attacks make our friends more zealous in serving
us and promoting our interest. At present I do not
know of more than two such enemies that I enjoy,

viz. and . I deserve the enmity of the

latter, because I might have avoided it by paying him
a compliment, which I neglected. That of the for-
mer I owe to the people of France, who happened
to respect me too much and him too little, which I
could bear, and he could not. They are unhappy
that they cannot make everybody hate me as much
as they do, and I should be so if my friends did not
love me much more than those gentlemen can pos-
sibly love one another.

Enough of this subject. Let me know if you are
in possession of my gimcrack instruments, and if you

30 The Works of [1781

have made any new experiments. I lent, many-
years ago, a large glass globe, mounted, to Mr.
Coombe, and an electric battery of bottles, which I
remember; perhaps there were some other things.
He may have had them so long as to think them his
own. Pray ask him for them, and keep them for
me, together with the rest.

You have a new crop of prose writers. I see in
your papers many of their fictitious names, but no-
body tells me the real. You will oblige me by a
little of your literary history. Adieu, my dear
friend, and believe me ever yours affectionately,

B. Franklin.

DCCCCXCVII

TO JOHN INGENHOUSZ

Passy, 2 October, 1781.

It is a long time, my dear friend, since I have had
the pleasure of writing to you. I have postponed it
too often from a desire of writing a good deal on
various subjects, which I could not find sufficient
time to think of properly. Your experiments on the
conducting of heat was one subject ; the finishing my
remarks on the stroke of lightning in Italy was another.
Then I was taken ill with a severe fit of the gout
soon after you left us, which held me near three
months, and put my business and correspondence so
far behindhand that I was long in getting it up
again. Add to this, that I find indolence increases
with age, and that I have not near the activity I

1781] Benjamin Franklin 31

formerly had. But I cannot afford to lose your cor-
respondence, in which I have always found so much
pleasure and instruction. I now force myself to
write, and I fancy this letter will be long.

I have now before me your several favors of De-
cember 5th, 1780, February 7th, April 7th, May 23d,
and August 29th, 1781. I was glad to find by the
first that you enjoyed a good state of health, and
that you had leisure to pursue your philosophical
inquiries. I wish you that continued success, which
so much industry, sagacity, and exactness in making
experiments have a right to expect. You will have
much immediate pleastire by that success, and in
time great reputation. But for the present the
reputation will be given grudgingly, and in as small
a quantity as possible, mixed, too, with some mor-
tification. One would think that a man so laboring
disinterestedly for the good of his fellow-creatures,
could not possibly by such means make himself
enemies ; but there are minds who cannot bear that
another should distinguish himself even by greater
usefulness; and, though he demands no profit, nor
any thing in return but the good-will of those he is
serving, they will endeavor to deprive him of that,
first, by disputing the truth of his experiments, then
their utiHty; and, being defeated there, they finally
dispute his right to them, and would give the credit
of them to a man that Hved three thousand years
ago, or at three thousand leagues' distance, rather
than to a neighbor, or even a friend. Go on, how-
ever, and never be discouraged. Others have met
with the same treatment before you, and will after

32 The Works of [1781

you. And, whatever some may think and say, it is
worth while to do men good, for the self-satisfaction
one has in the reflection.

Your account of the experiments you made with
the wires gave me a great deal of pleasure. I have
shown it to several persons here, who think it ex-
ceedingly curious. If you should ever repeat those
experiments, I wish your attention to one circum-
stance. I think it possible that, in dipping them
into the wax, and taking them out suddenly, the
metal which attracts heat most readily may chill
and draw out with it a thicker coat of wax; and
this thicker coat might, in the progress of the experi-
ment, be longer melting. They should therefore be
kept so long in the wax, as to be all and equally
heated. Perhaps you may thus find the progress of
heat in the silver quicker and greater. I think, also,
that, if the hot oil in which you dipped the ends was
not stagnant, but in motion, the experiment would
be more complete, because the wire which quickest
diminishes the heat of the oil next to it, finds soonest
the difficulty of getting more heat from the oil far-
ther distant, which depends on the nature of the oil
as a conductor of heat, that which is already cooled
interfering between the hotter oil and the wire. In
reversing the experiment also, to try which of the
metals cools fastest, I think the wires should be
dipped in running cold water; for, when stagnant*
the hot wires, by communicating heat to the water
that is near them, will make it less capable of re-
ceiving more heat; and, as the metals which com-
municate their heat most freely and readily will

1781] Benjamin Franklin 33

soonest warm the water round them, the operation
of such metals may therefore soonest stop ; not be-
cause they naturally longer withhold their heat, but
because the water near them is not in a state to
receive it. I do not know that these hints are
founded; I suggest them only as meriting a Httle
consideration. Every one is surprised that the pro-
gress of the heat seems to have no connection with
the gravity or the levity of the metals.

B. Franklin.

DCCCCXCVIII

FROM JOHN ADAMS

Amsterdam, 4 October, 1781.

Sir:— Since the 25th of August, when I had the
honor to write to you, this is the first time that I
have taken a pen in hand to write to anybody, hav-
ing been confined, and reduced too low to do any
kind of business, by a nervous fever.

The new commission for peace has been a great
consolation to me, because it removed from the pub-
lic all danger of stiff ering any inconvenience, at a
time when for many days together there were many
chances to one that I should have nothing more to
do with commissions of any sort. It is still a great
satisfaction to me, because I think it a measure
essentially right, both as it is a greater demonstra-
tion of respect to the powers whose ministers may
assemble to make peace, and as it is better calcu-
lated to give satisfaction to the people of America,

34 The Works of [1781

as the commissioners are chosen from the most con-
siderable places in that country.

It is probable that the French court is already
informed of the alteration, nevertheless I should
think it proper that it should be officially notified to
the Count de Vergennes ; and if you are of the same
opinion, as you are near, I should be obliged to you
if you would communicate to his Excellency an au-
thentic copy of the new commission.

I should think, too, that it would be proper to
give some intimation of it to the public in the Gazette
or Mercure de France, the two papers which are pub-
lished with the consent of the court; and if you are
of the same opinion, upon consulting the Count de
Vergennes, I should be glad to see it done.

Have you any information concerning Mr. Jeffer-
son, whether he has accepted the trust, whether he
has embarked, or proposes soon to embark, etc. I
saw a paragraph in a Maryland paper, which ex-
pressed an apprehension that he was taken prisoner
by a party of horse in Virginia.^

I feel a strong curiosity to know the answer of the
British court to the articles to serve as a basis. I
should be much obliged to your Excellency for a
copy of it, if to be procured, and for your opinion
whether there will be a congress or not. I have the
honor to be, with the greatest respect, etc.,

John Adams.

I The commissioners were John Adams, Benjamin Franklin, John
Jay, Henry Laurens, and Thomas Jefierson, Mr. Jefferson did not
accept the appointment.

1781] Benjamin Franklin 35

DCCCCXCIX

TO JOHN ADAMS

Passy, 12 October, 1781.

Sir:— I received the letter your Excellency did
me the honor of writing to me the 4th instant. I
have never known a peace made, even the most ad-
vantageous, that was not censured as inadequate,
and the makers condemned as injudicious or corrupt.
" Blessed are the peace-maker sj' is, I suppose, to be
understood in the other world, for in this they are
frequently cursed. Being as yet rather too much at-
tached to this world, I had therefore no ambition to
be concerned in fabricating this peace, and I know
not how I came to be put into the commission. I
esteem it, however, as an honor to be joined with
you in so important a business, and if the execution
of it shall happen in my time, which I hardly expect,
I shall endeavor to assist in discharging the duty
according to the best of my judgment.

Immediately on the receipt of the commission of
instructions, I communicated them, as directed, to
this court. The steps that have been taken in the
mediation were verbally communicated to me, but as
yet I have had no copies given me of the papers. I
asked if it was not proper to communicate to the
ministers of the mediating powers the commission of
Congress empowering us to accept their mediation,
and was advised to postpone it a little. I will en-
deavor, on Tuesday next, to obtain for you a copy
of the answer of the British court, which you desire,
and will consult on the propriety of mentioning our
commission in the public papers.

36 The Works of [1781

I have heard nothing of Mr. Jefferson. I imagine
the story of his being taken prisoner is not true.
From his original unwilHngness to leave America,
when I was sent hither, I think his coming doubtful,
unless he had been made acquainted with and con-
sented to the appointment.

I hope your health is fully established. I doubt
not but you have the advice of skilful physicians,
otherwise I should presume to offer mine, which
would be, though you find yourself well, to take a
few doses of bark, by way of fortifying your consti-
tution, and preventing a return of your fever. With
the greatest respect, I have the honor to be, etc.,
B. Franklin.

M

TO EDMUND BURKE

Passy, 15 October, 1781.

Sir: — I received but a few days since your very
friendly letter of August last, on the subject of Gen-
eral Burgoyne.

Since the foolish part of mankind will make wars
from time to time with each other, not having sense
enough otherwise to settle their differences, it cer-
tainly becomes the wiser part, who cannot prevent
those wars, to alleviate as much as possible the
calamities attending them. Mr. Burke always stood
high in my esteem ; but his affectionate concern for
his friend renders him still more amiable, and makes
the honor he does me of admitting me of the number
still more precious.

I do not think the Congress have any wish to

^78i] Benjamin Franklin 37

persecute General Burgoyne. I never heard, till I
received your letter, that they had recalled him;
if they have made such a resolution, it must be, I
suppose, a conditional one, to take place in case
their offer of exchanging him for Mr. Laurens should
not be accepted; a resolution intended merely to
enforce that offer.

I have just received an authentic copy of the re-
solve containing that offer; and authorizing me to
make it. As I have no communication with your
ministers, I send it enclosed to you.^ If you can
find any means of negotiating this business, I am
sure the restoring of another worthy man to his fam-
ily and friends will be an addition to your pleasure.
With great and invariable respect and affection, I
am, sir, your most obedient and most humble
servant, B. Franklin.'

^ "In Congress, June 13, 1781: Resolved That the Minister Pleni-
potentiary from these United States at the court of Versailles be
authorized and empowered to offer Lieutenant - General Burgoyne in
exchange for the Honorable Henry Laurens."

= In Burke's letter soliciting Franklin's aid in persuading Congress
not to insist upon the surrender of Burgoyne, who was in England only
as a prisoner on parole, he said :

^"You, my dear sir, who have made such astonishing exertions in
the cause which you espouse, and are so deeply read in human nature
and human morals, know better than anybody that men will and
that sometimes they are bound to, take very different views' and
measures of their duty, from local and from professional situation-
and that we may all have equal merit in extremely different lines of
conduct. In this piece of experimental philosophy I run no risk of
offending you. I apply not to the ambassador of America but to Dr
Franklin, the philosopher, the friend and the lover of his species "

Burke was unacquainted with Laurens when Franklin's letter called
his attention to the circumstances of his confinement in the Tower
As soon as he learned that the prisoner was suffering the rigors of a
close imprisonment, prevented from carrying on a proper correspond-
ence with his friends and family, and even denied the use of pen and

38 The Works of [1781

MI

FROM ROBERT R. LIVINGSTON

Philadelphia, 24 October, 1781.

Dear Sir: — Three days since, I did myself the
honor to write to you, informing you of my appoint-

ink, all his sympathies were awakened. He determined to leave no-
thing tindone to oblige the government to mitigate the hardships of
his confinement, and to procure his release. On meeting with some
rebtifEs from the ministers for his interference in the business, he im-
mediately gave notice that on the 3d Dec. he would call the attention
of the House to the case of Col. Laurens.

All the obstructive machinery of the Treasury, says Mr. Knight,*
was employed to frustrate his endeavors with respect to the American
statesman. First he heard from one secretary, then from another.
He was asstired that Gen. Burgo5me had already been exchanged.
His representations of the hardships Laurens was s\affering in the
Tower were denied. When he annotmced his intention to bring the
whole matter before the House, he was told that Lord Hillsborough,
the Secretary of State, was utterly indifferent as to the course he
might take. He was dared to do his worst. He had acted, it was
sneeringly insinuated, with his usual precipitation. He had made
charges which he had not the coxirage to retract, but which he knew
it was impossible to substantiate. Thus challenged, on the 17th Dec,
he gave notice that immediately after the recess he would bring in a
bill to regulate the exchange of prisoners of war, with special applica-
tion to the cases of Mr. Laurens and Gen. Burgoyne; entering at the
same time into a general statement of the hardships which the late
President of Congress had imdergone.

General Burgoyne, who was a member of that Parliament, rose at
once to thank Burke for having striven to procure his release, and for
the high terms in which he had spoken of his character. Lord New-
haven, however, on the authority of the Lieutenant of the Tower,
questioned the authenticity of Burke's facts, and hinted that the
orator himself deserved to be sent to the state prison for entering into
a correspondence with Dr. Franklin. "Good God!" exclaimed Lord
Newhaven, "can I believe my ears? Do not my senses deceive me?
Can a member of this assembly not only avow his correspondence with
a rebel, but dare to read it to us? But not only has he done this, but
he has actually gone to the ministers avowing what he had done, and
even showing them the evidence of his treason." Another county

I Life of Burke, Vol. II., p. 466.

1781] Benjamin Franklin 39

ment to the Secretaryship of Foreign Affairs,^ and
preparing you for the happy event which has taken

member at once offered to move a vote of censure. Being out of order
he was stopped by the Speaker. Burke in reply treated the imputa-
tions of treason with contempt. "I am not rich enough," he said,
"to occupy apartments in the Tower. Such a prison is better adapted
to the rank and fortune of the noble lord. But if I were confined in
the Tower, and could there enjoy the society of such men as Laurens
and Dr. Franklin, I may perhaps be permitted to say that I should
not in any degree regret the loss of the noble lord's company." *

Just before the Christmas recess, Burke brought up the subject
again, and in reply to an allegation that Laurens himself did not com-
plain of ill-treatment, read a petition from the prisoner, written with a
pencil, complaining of every grievance which had been before charged
on his behalf, and praying for a release from the close confinement
tmder which he was langmshing. The petition was allowed to lie
upon the table, f

Burke had deferred answering Franklin's letter of the 15th of Octo-
ber, awaiting the result of his efforts in ParUament. He now wrote
to the philosopher, setting forth the obstacles with which he had to
contend, and the discoviraging prospects. Fearful lest Congress, pro-
voked by the refusal of an exchange by the English ministers, should
renew in a peremptory manner its demand for the return of Burgojme,
Burke earnestly besought Franklin's good offices to prevent such a
proceeding. "I could wish," he wrote, "that this government would
take the lead in every act of generosity. But Providence has not done
its work by halves. Things are disposed of otherwise ; and along with
the gifts of fortune you have what fortime alone cannot give. I
wished to grant, and I am left to suppUcate."t

His supplications were happily needless. The bill of which he had
given notice accomplished its work without being introduced. His
energetic representations in the House of Commons produced the
desired results, and during the holidays, Laurens was admitted to
bail, and shortly afterwards exchanged for Burgoyne.

When Laurens came to know, if he ever did, the extent of his obli-
gations to Franklin for his release, he doubtless reproached himself
for ever having suspected the Doctor of indifference or insensibility.
— Editor.

^ In that letter Mr. Livingston wrote: "Congress having lately
thought it advisable to alter the arrangement of their great executive

* Parliamentary Hist., Vol. XXIL, p. 865.

tThis petition is preserved in Burke's Collected Speeches, Vol. II., p.
312. tBurke's Correspondence, Vol. II., p. 451,

40 The Works of [1781

place. Enclosed you have the capitulation of York-
town and Gloucester, by which a British army of
five thousand six hundred men was surrendered to
the allied arms of France and America; and no in-
considerable fleet, with eight hundred seamen, to the
navy of his most Christian Majesty.

Since my last, which was written the day after I
entered upon office, I have seen yours of the 14th
of May. There are many things in it which deserve
the attention I mean to pay it, when the first hurry
the intelligence I communicate occasions, is over.
But, sir, there is a part which I cannot delay to take
notice of, because I feel myself interested in oppos-
ing the resolution that you seem to have formed, of
quitting the station which, for the honor of the
United States, you now hold. I shall be impatient
till I hear that you comply with the wishes of Con-
departments, and to dissolve the boards and committees under whose
direction they formerly were, I am to inform you that they have done
me the honor to appoint me their Secretary of Foreign Affairs; in
which capacity they have made it ray duty, as it will always be my
inclination, to maintain an intimate and regular correspondence with
you. I have this day taken the oaths of office."

The correspondence between the old Congress and the American
agents in Europe was on the 29th of November, 1775, confided to a
committee of five, consisting of B. Franklin, Benj. Harrison, John
Dickinson, Robert Morris, and John Jay. It was denominated the
Committee of Secret Correspondence, and continued to bear that name
until April 17, 1777, when it was designated the Committee of Foreign
Affairs, the duties, however, remaining practically the same. On the
loth of August, 1 78 1, Robert R. Livingston was chosen Secretary of
Foreign Affairs, and upon him were devolved the duties of the com-
mittee, which was then dissolved, to the great advantage of the ser-
vice. Mr. Livingston resigned the Secretaryship of Foreign Affairs to
accept the position of Chancellor of the State of New York, and his
duties were discharged by Elias Boudinot, President of Congress, for a
few months, and tmtil the appointment of John Jay as his successor on
the 2ist of December, 1784.

1781] Benjamin Franklin 41

gress on this subject, as communicated long since.
Though the new powers with which you are invested
impose additional burdens upon you, yet, as they at
once contain the amplest testimonials of the appro-
bation of Congress, and directly lead to the comple-
tion of the great cause in which you so early engaged,
I cannot but flatter myself that you will take it
upon you. I sent with my first letter to you one
to the Count de Vergennes, informing him of my
appointment. You will do me the honor to present
it. I am, sir, etc., Robert R. Livingston.

Mil

TO THOMAS McKEAN, PRESIDENT OF CONGRESS

Passy, 5 November, 1781.

Sir: — Herewith you will receive a copy of my
last; since which I have been honored with two let-
ters from the late President, the one dated March
2d, relating to Captain Jones' cross of merit, which
I have communicated as directed; the other, dated
July 5th, respecting the release and exchange of Mr.
Laurens.

Having no direct communication with the British
ministers, and Mr. Burke appearing, by a letter to
me, warmly interested in favor of his friend. General
Burgoyne, to prevent his being recalled, I have re-
quested and empowered him to negotiate that ex-
change, and I soon expect his answer. The late
practice of sending to England prisoners taken in

42 The Works of [1781

America has greatly augmented the number of those
unfortunate men, and proportionally increased the
expense of relieving them. The subscriptions for
that purpose in England have ceased. The allow-
ance I have made to them of sixpence each per week
during the summer, though small, amounts to a con-
siderable sum; and during the winter I shall be
obliged to double if not treble it. The Admiralty
there will not accept any English in exchange, but
such as have been taken by Americans, and abso-
lutely refuse to allow any of the paroles given to our
privateers by English prisoners discharged at sea,
except in one instance, that of fifty-three men taken
in the Snake sloop, by the Pilgrim and Rambler,
which was a case attended, as they say, with some
particular circumstances. I know not what the cir-
cumstances were, but shall be glad to see the fifty-
three of our people, whom they promised to send
me by the first cartel. I have about five hundred
other paroles solemnly given in writing, by which the
Englishmen promised either to send our people in
exchange or to surrender themselves to me in France,
not one of which has been regarded, so little faith
and honor remain in that corrupted nation. Our
privateers, when in the European seas, will rarely
bring in their prisoners when they can get rid of
them at sea. Some of our poor brave countrymen
have been in that cruel captivity now for near four
years. I hope the Congress will take this matter
into immediate consideration, and find some means
for their deliverance, and to prevent the sending
more from America. By my last accounts, the num-

1781] Benjamin Franklin 43

ber now in the several prisons amounts to upwards
of eight hundred.

I request also some direction from Congress (hav-
ing never received any) respecting the allowance to
be made to them while they remain there. They
complain that the food given them is insufficient.
Their petition to the English government to have
an equal allowance with the French and Spanish
prisoners has been rejected, which makes the small
pecuniary assistance I can send them more neces-
sary. If a certain number of English prisoners could
be set apart in America, treated exactly in the same
manner, and their exchange refused till it should be
agreed to set these at liberty in Europe, one might
hope to succeed in procuring the discharge of our
people. Those who escape and pass through France
to get home put me also to a great expense for their
land journeys, which could be prevented if they could
be exchanged, as they would be landed here in ports.

The ambassador of Venice told me that he was
charged by the Senate to express to me their grateful
sense of the friendly behavior of Captain Barry,
commander of the Alliance, in rescuing one of the
ships of their state from an English privateer, and
setting her at liberty; and he requested me to com-
municate this acknowledgment to Congress. There
is a complaint from Holland against Captain Jones,
for having taken the brigantine Berkenhosch and
sending her to America, and I have been desired to
lay before Congress the enclosed depositions relating
to that capture, and to request their attention to it.

The ambassador of Portugal also frequently asks

44 The Works of [1781

me if I have received any answer to their complaint
long since sent over. I wish it was in my power to
give one of some kind or other. But none has yet
come to my hands. I need not mention the im-
portance of attending to the smallest complaints
between nations, the neglect of them having some-
times very serious consequences.

The mediation proposed is not agreed to by Eng-
land, who refuses to treat with our United States
but as a sovereign with subjects; and I apprehend
that a change in that resolution is only to be ex-
pected from time, the growing insupportable expense
of the war, or a course of misfortunes in the progress
of it. The spirits of that nation have been continu-
ally kept up by the flattering accounts sent over, of
our being weary of the contest and on the point of
submission. Their ministers, as appears by their
intercepted letters, have been themselves so far de-
ceived as to expect daily those submissions, and to
have the pleasure of laying them before the king.
We may, perhaps, be able to guess a little by the
king's speech at the approaching new session of Par-
liament, whether they still continue under this de-
lusion. As long as it subsists, peace is not to be
expected.

A loan has been proposed to be obtained for us of
the States of Holland on the credit of this govern-
ment. All public operations are slow in that coun-
try; and though the affair is at length said to be
concluded, it is not yet executed. Considerable ad-
vances have, however, been made here in expecta-
tion of being reimbursed by it. The last aids granted

1781] Benjamin Franklin 45

us have been so absorbed by my payment of the
drafts on Mr. Jay and Mr. Adams, and acceptance
of those for the enormous unexpected purchases in
Holland, which were to have gone in Captain Gillon's
ship, but left behind, that I shall have nothing to
spare for extraordinaries, unless some of the Hol-
land loan comes soon into my hands. I am now
told, from Amsterdam, that the two ships freighted
there to carry those goods are detained, as their con-
tract was to sail under convoy of the South Carolina,
which left them ; and they must now take more men
to defend them, and of consequence claim a higher
freight, and to have it paid before they sail, unless
I will buy the ships, and send them on account of
Congress, neither of which is in my power to do. It
was with reluctance I engaged in that affair, having
Httle confidence in Captain Gillon's management,
and fearing some embarrassment of our credit.

I consented, in fine, to engage for the payment of
ten thousand pounds sterling, being the value of
the goods suitable for Congress, said to be already
shipped in that vessel ; and, as there was said to be
still some room, and she was thought a safe convey-
ance, I concluded to furnish an additional sum to
fill that supposed vacancy, which I limited to five
thousand pounds sterhng more. You will judge of
my surprise when I saw the accounts of that addi-
tional purchase, which amounted, instead of five, to
fifty thousand pounds sterling. I at first absolutely
refused to pay for them. But Captain Jackson came
to me from thence express ; urged, that the purchase
was made by order of Colonel Laurens; that the

46 The Works of [1781

goods were on board; that, if I would not undertake
to pay for them, they must be relanded, and re-
turned or sold, which would be a public disgrace to
us ; that they were all articles exceedingly wanted in
America, etc. etc. In fine, I was prevailed on, and
accepted the bills, and was obliged to go with this
after-clap to the ministers, a proceeding always dis-
agreeable, after the dispositions of the funds of the
year have been arranged; and more so in this case,
as the money was to be paid for the manufactures
of other countries, and not laid out in those of this
kingdom, by whose friendship it was furnished. This
fresh grant was at first absolutely refused; at length
I obtained it, and I hoped the difficulty was over.

But, after all, the officers declare the ship was
overloaded, that there was not room to lodge the
people and provisions, nor to act in fighting her; the
goods are turned out into two other ships, those are
left, and it is now proposed to me either to buy them
or to advance a freight nearly equal to their value.
I cannot make a new demand for this purpose ; and
I shall not wonder if this government, observing
how badly our shipping and transporting the sup-
plies are managed, should take that business for the
future entirely into their own hands, as they have
begun to do in the case of replacing the cargo of the
Marquis de Lafayette; and, indeed, till some active, in-
telligent person, skilled in maritime affairs, is placed
here as consul, I cannot but think it will be much
better executed, and more for our advantage. Some
considerable parts of that new cargo are already
shipped, and the rest I hear are in great forwardness.

1781] Benjamin Franklin 47

The very friendly disposition of this court towards
us still continues, and will, I hope, continue for ever.
From my own inclination, as well as in obedience to
the orders of Congress, every thing in my power
shall be done to cultivate that disposition; but I
trust it will be remembered that the best friends
may be overburdened; that, by too frequent, too
large, and too importunate demands upon it, the
most cordial friendship may be wearied; and, as
nothing is more teasing than repeated, unexpected
large demands for money, I hope the Congress will
absolutely put an end to the practice of drawing on
their ministers, and thereby obliging them to worry
their respective courts for the means of payment.
It may have otherwise very ill effects in depressing
the spirit of a minister, and destroying that freedom
of representation which, on many occasions, it might
be proper for him to make use of.

I heartily congratulate you, sir, on your being
called to the honorable and important office of Presi-
dent, and wish you every kind of prosperity.

Be pleased to present my dutiful respects to the
Congress, and believe me to be, with great and sin-
cere esteem and respect, etc., B. Franklin.

Mill

TO MESSRS. KORNMANN

Passy, 21 November, 1781.

Gentlemen: — Enclosed is the answer you desire
to the letter sent me from Konigsberg. I have the
honor to be, gentlemen, etc., B. Franklin.

48 The Works of [1781

Passy, 21 November, 1781.

Madam: — I received the letter you did me the
honor of writing to me the 26th of last month; in
answer to which I ought to inform you, that I was
born in America, now near seventy-six years since,
that I never was in Ireland till the year 1772, which
was for a few weeks only, and I did not pass thence
to America with any person of my name, but re-
turned to England; nor had I ever any knowledge
of the John Franklin you mention. I have exact
accounts of every person of my family since the year
1555, when it was established in England, and am
certain that none of them but myself since that time
was ever in Ireland. The name of Franklin is com-
mon among the English of the two nations, but
there is a number of different families who bear it,
and who have no relation to each other. It would
be a pleasure to me to discover a relation in Europe,
possessing the amiable sentiments expressed in your
letter. I assure you I should not disown the mean-
est. I should also be glad if I could give you a
satisfactory account of your family; but I really
know nothing of them. I have therefore not the
honor of being related to them, but I have that of
being, madam, yours, etc., B. Franklin.

MIV

TO THOMAS POWNALL

Passy, 23 November, 1781.

Dear Sir : — I received your favor by Mr. Hobart.
I caused an application to be made to Almon in
behalf of Mrs. Barry, but do not learn that it is like

1781] Benjamin Franklin 49

to meet with any success.^ As the transaction was
between yourself and him, no other person but you
can claim with authority. I must therefore beg for
the poor good woman's sake, that you would do
something effectual in it.

I also request that you would send the copies you
mention to me here, directed to the care of Mr.
Bowen at Ostend; and that the plate may be packed
with them.

I wish most heartily with you that this cursed
war was at an end; but I despair of seeing it finished
in my time. Your thirsty nation has not yet drunk
enough of our blood. I am authorized to treat of
peace whenever she is disposed to it; but I saw in-
conveniences in meeting and discoursing with you
on the subject, or with any one not avowed by
your ministry; having already experienced such in
several instances. Mr. Hobart appeared not fully
acquainted with your ideas, and as he could not
communicate them I could make no judgment
of them. My best wishes attend you, being with
the old, long-continued esteem, dear sir, your most
obedient, etc., B. Franklin.

MV

TO JOHN ADAMS

Passy, 26 November, 1781.

Sir:— I sent forward last Saturday some packets
and letters for you, which I hope got to hand in time.

I Mrs. Barry was the daughter of Lewis Evans, who published a
geographical account of some parts of America, with an improved map.
Mr. Evans had died, and his daughter, who was now at Tunis, was to
receive the profits of the sale. Almon was the publisher.

VOL. IX. — 4.

50 The Works of [1781

Most heartily do I congratulate you on the glorious
news! ^ The infant Hercules in his cradle has now
strangled his second serpent, and gives hopes that
his future history will be answerable.

I enclose a packet which I have just received from
General Washington, and which I suppose contains

^ The "glorious news" here referred to was the capittilation of Com-
walh's's army at Yorktown, on the 17th of October preceding. He and
his officers were allowed to return upon parole to England, but his
army were made prisoners of war. It consisted of from five to six
thousand men, of whom only four thousand were fit for duty. In ad-
dition, about fifteen hundred sailors fell into the hands of the victors,
who also obtained an admirable train of artillery, arms, and munitions
of war. The French made prizes of a frigate, two sloops of war, trans-
ports, and other ships. The apparent loss to the British was not very
great, but the two capitulations of Saratoga and Yorktown were judged
to have decided the contest and the destiny of the republic, then at
the verge of despair.

Schlosser says that Lord North, as is well known, only lost his self-
possession once in his life, and that was when Lord George Germaine
brought him the intelligence of the capitulation of Yorktown. Wraxall,
in his Memoirs of My Own Times, Vol. II., p. 262, gives a graphic ac-
count of the effects produced by this news at court.

"During the whole month of November the concurring accounts
transmitted to government, enumerating Lord Comwallis' embarrass-
ments and the position taken by the enemy, augmented the anxiety of
the cabinet. Lord George Germaine in particular, conscious that on
the prosperous or adverse termination of that expedition must hinge
the fate of the American contest, his own stay in office, as well as
probably the duration of the ministry itself, felt, and even expressed
to his friends, the strongest uneasiness on the subject. The meeting of
Parliament meanwhile stood fixed for the 27th of November. On
Sunday, the 25th, about noon, official intelligence of the surrender of
the British forces at Yorktown, arrived from Falmouth, at Lord George
Germaine's house in Pall Mall. Lord Walsingham, who, previous to
his father's (Sir William de Grey) elevation to the peerage, had been
Under-Secretary of State in that department, and who was selected to
second the address in the House of Peers on the subsequent Tuesday,
happened to be there when the messenger brought the news. With-
out communicating it to any other person, Lord George, for the purpose
of despatch, immediately got with him into a hackney coach and
drove to Lord Stormont's residence in Portland Place. Having im-

1781] Benjamin Franklin 51

the articles of capitulation. It is a rare circum-
stance, and scarce to be met with in history, that
in one war two armies should be taken prisoners
completely, not a man in either escaping. It is
another singular circumstance, that an expedition so
complex, formed of armies of different nations, and

parted to him the disastrous information, and taken him into the car-
riage, they instantly proceeded to the Chancellor's house in Great
Russell Street, Bloomsbviry, whom they found at home; when, after a
short consultation, they determined to lay it, themselves in person,
before Lord North. He had not received any intimation of the event,
when they arrived at his door in Downing Street, between one and
two o'clock. The First Minister's firmness, and even his presence of
mind, gave way for a short time tmder this awful disaster. I asked
Lord George afterwards how he took the communication when made
to him. 'As he would have taken a ball in his breast,' replied Lord
George. ' For he opened his arms, exclaiming wildly, as he paced up
and down the apartment during a few minutes: "O God! it is all
over!" — words which he repeated many times, under emotions of the
deepest agitation and distress.'

"When the first agitation of their minds had subsided, the four
ministers discussed the question, whether or not it might be expedient
to prorogue Parliament for a few days; but, as scarcely an interval of
forty-eight hours remained before the appointed time of assembling,
and as many members of both Houses were already either arrived in
London or on the road, that proposition was abandoned. It became,
however, indispensable to alter, and almost to model anew, the king's
speech, which had been already drawn up, and completely prepared
for delivery from the throne. This alteration was therefore made
without delay; and at the same time Lord Germaine, as Secretary for
the American Department, sent off a despatch to his Majesty, who
was then at Kew, acquainting him with the melancholy termination
of Lord Comwallis' expedition. Some hours having elapsed before
these different but necessary acts of business could take place, the
ministers separated, and Lord George Germaine repaired to his office
in Whitehall. There he found a confirmation of the intelUgence,
which arrived about two hours after the first communication ; having
been transmitted from Dover, to which place it was forwarded from
Calais, with the French accotmt of the same event.

" I dined on that day at Lord George's; and though the information,
which had reached London in the course of the morning from two
different quarters, was of a nature not to admit of long concealment.

52 The Works of [1781

of land and sea forces, should with such perfect con-
cord be assembled from different places by land and
water, form their junction punctually, without the
least retard by cross accidents of wind or weather,
or interruption from the enemy ; and that the army
which was their object should in the meantime
have the goodness to quit a situation from whence
it might have escaped, and place itself in another
whence an escape was impossible.

yet it had not been communicated either to me or to any individual
of the company, as it might natiu-ally have been through the channel
of common report. When I got to Pall Mall, between five and six
o'clock, Lord Walsingham, who hkewise dined there, was the only
person present except Lord George acquainted with the fact. The
party, nine in number, sat down to table. I thought the master of the
house appeared serious, though he manifested no discomposure. Be-
fore the dinner was finished one of his servants deUvered him a letter,
brought back by the messenger who had been despatched to the king.
Lord George opened and perused it; then looking at Lord Walsingham,
to whom he exclusively directed his observation: 'The king writes,
said he, 'just as he always does, except that I observe he has omitted
to mark the hour and the minute of his writing with his usual pre-
cision.' This remark, though calculated to awaken some interest,
excited no comment; and while the ladies — Lord George's three
daughters — remained in the room, we repressed otir curiosity. But
they had no sooner withdrawn than Lord George having acquainted
us that from Paris information had just arrived of the old Co\mt de
Matu-epas, First Minister, lying at the point of death; ' It would grieve
me,' said I, 'to finish my career, however far advanced in years, were
I First Minister of France, before I had witnessed the termination of
this great contest between England and America.' 'He has survived
to see that event,' replied Lord George, with some agitation. Utterly
unsuspicious of the fact which had happened beyond the Atlantic, I
conceived him to allude to the indecisive naval action fought at the
mouth of the Chesapeake, early in the preceding month of September,
between Admiral Graves and Count de Grasse; which, in its results,
might prove most injurious to Lord Cornwallis. Under this impres-
sion, 'My meaning,' said I, 'is that if I were the Count de Maurepas,
I should wish to live long enough to behold the final issue of the war
in Virginia.' 'He has survived to v/itness it completely,' answered
Lord George, 'The army has surrendered, and you may peruse the

i78i] Benjamin Franklin 53

General Greene has done wonders too in Carolina.
I hear that a reinforcement was to be sent to him
from the army in Virginia, and that there are hopes
of his reducing Charleston. You have probably in
the enclosed packet the account of his last great
action. Count de Grasse sailed on the 30th with
the fleet and part of the land forces. His destina-
ion is not mentioned. I have the honor to be, etc.,

B. Franklin.

particulars of the capitulation in that paper'; taking at the same time
one from his pocket, which he delivered into my hand, not without
visible emotion. By his permission I read it aloud, while the com-
pany listened m profound silence. We then discussed its contents as
affectmg the ministry, the country, and the war. It must be con-
fessed that they were calculated to diffuse a gloom over the most
convivial society, and that they opened a wide field for speculation."
The news of the capitulation was first communicated to Franklin
by the following note from Vergennes, who received it through his
agents in England :

" Je ne puis mieux Monsieur, vous t^moigner ma reconnaissance des
nouvelles que vous avez bien voulu me communiquer qu'en vous
faisant part que M. le Due de Lauzun est arrive cet apres-midi avec
1 agr^able nouvelle que les troupes combiners de France et d'Amerique
ont forc^ le General Comwallis a capituler. La gamison anglaise est
SOTU6 d Yorktown, le 29 Octobre, avec les honneurs de la guerre et a
mis bas les armes comme prisonniers. Environ 6,000 hommes de
troupes, 1,800 matelots ou negres, 22 drapeaux, et 170 pieces de canon
dont 75 de bronze sont les trophies qui signalent cette victoire, ind^-
pendamment d'un vaisseau de 50 canons qui a et^ brule, ainsi qu'une
frigate et un assez grand nombre de transports.

"Mon billet vous sera rendu h votre reveil. Monsieur, et je suis
assure qu'il vous fera partager la satisfaction que j'eprouve.

" J'ai I'honneur d'etre avec un sincere attachement, Monsieur, votre
tres humble et tr^s ob^issant serviteur,

(Signed) "De Vergennes.

Versailles, le 19 9bre, 1781,
1 1 heures du soir.
"M. B. Franklin."

— ^Editor.

54 The Works of [1781

MVI

FROM ROBERT R. LIVINGSTON

Philadelphia, 26 November, 1781.

Dear Sir:— The Marquis de Lafayette, who has
obtained leave to revisit his family for the winter,
does me the honor to be the bearer of this and dupli-
cates of two former letters to you. The degree of
estimation in which he is held here you will collect
from the enclosed resolutions relative to him, so that
you may converse freely with him, and I doubt not
that he will be able to satisfy your inquiries on
many important questions relative to this country;
on which account I may confine myself more to
general heads than I would otherwise do.

As to intelligence, there is little of importance, the
army all having gone into winter- quarters after the
late glorious campaign, the enemy having been de-
feated on every hand. A party of about six hund-
red of them, who fell upon the western frontier of
New York, were the last that quitted the stage,
having been driven off by an inferior number of
militia, with the loss of their leaders, and many
privates killed, and about fifty, including the
wounded, made prisoners. A body of troops is de-
tached to the southward to reinforce General Greene,
with orders to attempt Wilmington on their way,
which the enemy occupy with about five hundred
men, and keep up a connection with the disaffected
counties in North Carolina.

We have not in a long time heard either from you
or Mr. Jay, so that we are much in the dark respect-

1781] Benjamin Franklin 55

ing the probable prospect of a negotiation this win-
ter, or rather are led to conclude from your silence
that the prospect is extremely remote; in which case
all your objects will concentre in preparing for the
ensuing campaign, and directing the operations as
far as possible to this country. The success of the
combined operations this summer will give great
weight to your arguments, especially as they are
such as would deserve, independent of that, the
most serious attention. But, sir, you will have a
difficult card to play to induce France to do what
not only our but her interests essentially require.
Never was there a time in which money was more
necessary to us than at present. The total aboli-
tion of paper, the length of the war, the restricted
commerce we have carried on for the first five years
of it, the arrears of debts, and the slender thread by
which public credit hangs, put it totally out of our
power to make any great exertions without an im-
mediate supply of money.

Taxation will be carried as far as it can go; but
this will fall very far short of our wants. The rich-
est nations in Europe, unable to carry on a war by
taxation only, are compelled to borrow. How, then,
will it be expected that a nation, which has had every
difficulty to struggle with, an enemy in the heart of
its country, and all its considerable towns at one
time or another in their possession, a superior navy
on its coasts, and the consequential ruin of its agri-
culture and commerce,— how, I say, can it be ex-
pected that such a nation should find resources
within itself for so long and bloody a war? And

56 The Works of [1781

yet, in this situation, we are alarmed by our advices
from you, by representations from the minister of
France, by assurances from every quarter, that we
must expect no further assistance in money. Surely
it is not possible that France, after having done so
much for us, after having brought us within view of
the desired haven, should oblige us to lose the advan-
tage of all she has done ; and yet be assured that the
most serious consequence may attend her stopping
her hand at this critical time. Public credit, which
is growing very fast, will drop to the ground. The
contracts made for the ensuing campaign must be
given up ; the troops, who were made to expect pay
in specie, will be dissatisfied; and, upon the least
ill-fortune, a failure in supplies will show their dis-
contents; recruiting will be checked, and the con-
clusion of the war on those advantageous terms,
which one vigorous exertion next spring in this
country would secure, will be postponed to a later
period, when in fact all we wish, to enable us to
accompHsh these great objects, is less than one year's
continuance of the war will cost France.

You will, therefore, show the necessity of setting
our credit upon a firm basis, the prospect we have
of accomplishing it, from the great confidence in the
integrity and abihties of the financier, from the
economy which is introduced into our departments,
from the industry which money excites and which
a fluctuating medium had destroyed, and from the
total debility which must attend another shock to
public credit.

You are perfectly acquainted, sir, with the natural

1781] Benjamin Franklin 57

resources of the country; you know the value of
our exports, and the security they afford for any
debt that we may contract; in short, there are a
thousand arguments on this subject which will sug-
gest themselves to you, not one of which will you
upon this occasion omit to urge, since you must be
perfectly convinced of its importance in every view,
both to France and to us. The Superintendent will
write more fully upon this subject, which relates so
particularly to his department.

I would beg leave to remind you of another want,
which we depend on yoiu representations, and good
dispositions of the court of Versailles, to remove.
The chase here seems to be pretty well over; the
enemy, tired of running across the country, have
taken to their burrows, and the whole business that
remains to us is to take measures for unearthing
them next spring. In order to do this, ships are
absolutely necessary. The situation of New York
and Charleston renders them untenable against a
naval force, and extremely strong against an attack
by land; besides that success in such an operation
would not be decisive, since, after putting us to
immense expense of men and ammunition of every
kind, while they keep the command of the water,
they might change their position and be as trouble-
some as ever. At any rate the reduction of both
these places, from their distance and the difficulty of
removing the men and stores, cannot be effected the
same campaign without a naval force, and with it,
it will be the business of a few weeks. The advan-
tage to France, independent of her interests as they

58 The Works of [1781

stand connected with ours, in keeping a great naval
force on this continent, is obvious.

I St. The expense to which they put the English,
by obliging them to maintain an equal force at this
distance from home, at four times the cost at which
the French navy may be maintained in this country,
which, with proper management, need not exceed
what they expend even in France.

2dly. The number of seamen they employ in the
transport service, being so many deducted from
what might supply their navy, with the same ex-
pense as if so employed.

3dly. The protection afforded to the trade on
this coast, and the prospect of capturing the ene-
my's victuallers, and the consequent ruin of their
affairs.

4thly. But, above all, the decided advantage it
will afford our combined operations, and the speedy
termination of the war by an advantageous peace.
It is true, France may have other objects, which
may interfere with these. To this we can say
nothing; she must judge for herself. All we can do
is to point out what we conceive will be most useful
to her as well as to us, and submit to her determina-
tion. It would be well, however, if we were ap-
prised of it as soon as possible.

If a negotiation should open this winter, or there
should be a probable prospect of it, you will do me
the favor to give me the earliest advices of it. There
are many delicate points on which you would like to
know the sentiments of people on this side of the
water, which I will endeavor to acquaint you with.

1781] Benjamin Franklin 59

I should inform you that Congress have discharged
the commission for negotiating a treaty of com-
merce with Great Britain, and taken that burden
from Mr. Adams' shoulders ; that in compliment to
the Marquis de Lafayette, they have made him the
bearer of a letter to the king of France, which I
enclose; that in answer to your favor of the nth of
June, they have passed the enclosed resolution.

Mr. Morris will write you on this subject, and
enable you to discharge the bills. Should France
send a fleet next spring, it would be advantageous
to have it unencumbered with such orders as may
prevent its taking advantage of circumstances. This
has unhappily prevented this campaign from being
absolutely decisive. But neither this nor any other
great object can escape your observation, bent as it
is upon promoting the happiness of your country.

In order to enable you to meet the claim of the
Tories to the property that has been confiscated, I
am endeavoring to collect for you an accurate ac-
count of the damages wantonly done by the enemy
in this country, which will at least serve to set
against that claim. Congress are preparing for an
active campaign. They have directed eight millions
of dollars to be raised by tax. There is not, how-
ever, the least idea that this, or even one half of it,
will be collected in the time specified; you will not,
therefore, suffer the court to deceive themselves by
hopes of exertions founded on this measure, but
urge again and again the absolute necessity of sup-
plying money. I have conversed so freely with the
Marquis de Lafayette on the general state of our

6o The Works of [1781

politics, that I would rather refer you to him than
trouble you with a longer letter on the subject.

I cannot, however, close this without desiring you
to inquire whether any intercepted letters from Mr.
Deane to persons in this country have been pub-
lished in Europe. Riving ton has given us many
which are generally believed to be his. The Mar-
quis will satisfy your inquiries about them. I am,
dear sir, with sentiments of the highest respect and
esteem, etc., Robert R. Livingston.

MVII

TO WM. STRAHAN, ESQ.

Passy, 4 December, 1781.

Dear Sir: — Not remembering precisely the ad-
dress of Mrs. Strange, I beg leave to request you
would forward the enclosed to her, which I received
under my cover from America.

I formerly sent you from Philadelphia part of an
edition of Ttdly on Old Age, to be sold in London;
and you put the books, if I remember right, into the
hands of Mr. Becket for that purpose. Probably he
may have some of them still in his warehouse, as I
never had an account of their being sold. I shall be
much obliged by your procuring and sending me
one of them.

A strong emulation exists at present between
Paris and Madrid, with regard to beautiful printing.
Here a M. Didot raine has a passion for the art, and

1781] Benjamin Franklin 61

besides having procured the best types, he has much
improved the press. The utmost care is taken of his
presswork; his ink is black, and his paper fine and
white. He has executed several charming editions.
But the Sallust and the Don Quixote of Madrid are
thought to excel them. Didot, however, improves
every day, and by his zeal and indefatigable appli-
cation bids fair to carry the art to a high pitch of
perfection. I will send you a sample of his work
when I have an opportunity.

I am glad to hear that you have married your
daughter happily, and that your prosperity con-
tinues. I hope it may never meet with any interrup-
tion, having still, though at present divided by
public circumstances, a remembrance of our ancient
private friendship. Please to present my affection-
ate respects to Mrs. Strahan, and my love to your
children. With great esteem and regard, I am, dear
sir,

Your most obedient and most humble servant,

B. Franklin.

MVIII

FROM ROBERT MORRIS

Philadelphia, 5 December, 1781.

Sir : — I was yesterday morning favored with yours
of the 12th of September, enclosing third copies of
your two letters of the 26th of July, also a copy
of Count de Vergennes' letter to you of the 23d of
August. I find by these letters that the idea I had

62 The Works of [1781

entertained as to the advances made by the court
was not so favorable as the truth, and that the ten
millions of livres, or five millions of florins, to be
borrowed in Holland, will be over and above those
advances. How much pleasure I receive from that
circumstance you will easily conceive. It is an
additional pleasure that the labor of adjusting the
matters mentioned in mine of the 27 th of November
will be saved to you.

I am much surprised to find so large purchases
made on account of the United States in Holland.
If every thing else were equal, the generous conduct
of France towards us has been such that I cannot
but think that every possible preference ought to be
given to the manufactures of that nation. But there
is, in my opinion, very essential preference of a dif-
ferent kind. The position of Amsterdam is unfavor-
able, in a war with England, to a commerce with
this country. France also can, and I suppose will,
give convoy to the articles procured there. But I
will dwell no longer on the subject, for I trust that
nothing of the kind will happen hereafter.

Should the loan be obtained, you will be so kind,
sir, as to deposit one million of florins with Mr.
Grand, to whom I will pray you to deliver the en-
closed letter. I shall, in consequence, not draw upon
you for a million of livres, in favor of Messrs. Le
Couteulx & Co., as I intended; and, in like manner,
I beg leave to revoke what I have said on the sub-
ject of paying all balances into their hands. One
million of florins you will also be pleased to deposit
with the house of Grand, at Amsterdam, sending

1781] Benjamin Franklin 63

me the precise address of both, so that I can direct
my bills properly to them. Nearly one million will
be necessary to pay the invoice sent. The remaining
two millions I wish may be shipped from France in
gold, by proper vessels of war, which, I dare say,
will readily be provided by M. de Castries.

I perceive you have not written to Congress on
the subjects mentioned in the letter of the Count de
Vergennes of the 23d of August, which I am glad of.
The more that an opinion prevails here that we
must succor ourselves, the more we shall do it ; and,
therefore, I shall not communicate what you have
said, for the present; but, as the best acknowledg-
ment, I shall endeavor to further the operations
against the common enemy, and draw forth all our
resources for an early and vigorous campaign. The
splendid and important success which has crowned
the combined arms in Virginia is, I hope, only an
earnest of what is to be done next year. These are
the returns, which we shall make to the king, for the
aid he so generously affords. And I have a very par-
ticular satisfaction in assuring you that throughout
this country a strong attachment to the French nation
is daily taking place of that blind partiality once felt
for every thing which had the name of English. Let
me add, for your use, a piece of mercantile informa-
tion, lately communicated to me from unquestionable
authority. The demand for French goods in this
country has raised the prices in France from twenty
to thirty per cent. The importations have reduced the
prices here nearly twenty per cent, and the exchange,
you already know, has been raised considerably.

64 The Works of [1781

I shall say nothing to you in this letter on the
subject of future supplies, because I feel a conviction
that you will obtain such as may be necessary. I
will only repeat what I have often said, let them be
early. I enclose a letter to M. de Fleury, which you
will either deliver or not, as may best answer your
purposes. I hope often to have the pleasure of hear-
ing from you, and I pray you to believe me to be,
with very great truth, dear sir, etc.,

Robert Morris.

MIX

TO MRS. C. EDES

Passy, 13 December, 1781.

Madam :^I return enclosed the letter from my
friend, Mr. Bridgen, which I received from you last
night. You will be so good as to acquaint him, in
answer to his first question, if any fund was estab-
lished for the support of Mr. Laurens, that, being in-
formed about the middle of last month by a friend in
London of Mr. Laurens being in want of money, I
wrote on the 19th to Mr. Hodgson, a merchant in
Coleman Street, in whose hands I had lodged cash
for the support of prisoners, to hold one hundred
pounds of it at the disposition of Mr. Laurens ; and I
since hear that, on a like intimation to Mr. Adams in
Holland, he has ordered another one hundred pounds
to be applied to the same purpose. I have never
heard that any fund was established in America for
the use of that gentleman ; probably it has not been
known there that he had need of it.

i78i] Benjamin Franklin 65

The second question, if any measures had been
taken for his relief, will be answered by acquainting
Mr. Bridgen, that the Congress passed a resolution
to offer the exchange of General Burgoyne for him,
and empowered me to make the offer; that Mr.
Burke, having written to me in favor of his friend,
General Burgoyne, on a supposition that the Con-
gress intended to recall him, I sent a copy of the
resolution to Mr. Burke, and requested he would
charge himself with the negotiation. I have since
heard nothing, either from Mr. Hodgson or Mr.
Burke; and, as it is said a packet was lately lost
between Ostend and England, I begin to fear my
letters have miscarried, and shall by the first post
send copies. I wish Mr. Bridgen would, however,
apply to both those gentlemen, learn what has been
done, and through you acquaint me with it. I beg
you would assure Mr. Bridgen of my best wishes and
affectionate attachment. I hope his affairs in Caro-
lina have been settled to his mind. With much
esteem, I have the honor to be, madam, yours, etc.,

B. Franklin.

P. S. — About the beginning of the year, having
heard a report that Mr. Laurens was ill used, I wrote
a little remonstrance to Sir Grey Cooper on the occa-
sion ; who replied by acquainting me that on inquiry
he found the report to be groundless ; and by send-
ing me a letter he had received from the Lieutenant
of the Tower, which assured him, in the strongest
terms, that Mr. Laurens was perfectly satisfied with
the treatment he received, and frequently expressed

66 The Works of [1781

his thankfulness for the same. This made me easy,
hearing nothing afterwards to the contrary, till
lately.

MX

TO JOHN ADAMS

Passy, 14 December, 1781.

Sir: — I duly received your Excellency's favors
of the ist and 6th instant. I wrote to you by Mr.
Barclay, who went from hence some days since, and
I hope is with you by this time, and that he will,
with your assistance, be able to settle every thing
relating to the goods. I have received a long letter
from Messrs. Neufville, the purport of which is, that
they are willing for their part to deliver the goods to
you, but that they cannot control the other owners
of the ships, who have a right, by the laws and cus-
toms of Holland, to detain the goods for the damage
done by Captain Gillon's refusing to sign the charter
parties, and hope that I will not, on account of the
conduct of the other owners, refuse to pay the bills,
especially as such a refusal would be derogatory to
the honor of the United States.

I may be wrong, but my present thoughts on the
subject are that, if by the laws of Holland our goods
may be detained in the hands of the ship-owners for
the fault of Mr. Gillon, by the same laws the pro-
perty of one of these owners may be detained in our
hands for the fault of his partners; and that it as
much concerns the honor of Holland, that our goods

1781] Benjamin Franklin 67

should be delivered to us, as it concerns the honor of
America, that we should pay for them when deliv-
ered. And I further think that, if a merchant in
Holland, happening to have any of my property in
his possession, may, by the laws of his country,
detain the same till I pay him whatever he shall
please to demand, as indemnification for an injury
supposed to be done him by some other person,
Holland is by no means a safe country for Americans
to trade with, nor a Dutch merchant a safe deposi-
tory for the property of a stranger, or to be the con-
signee of merchandise sent into his country.

You desire a copy of the terms on which he offered
to borrow money for us. At present, I only send you
an extract of the principal points, much of the writ-
ing being matter of form. The first proposition is :
" That, for the security of this loan of two milHons
of guilders, Holland currency, we engaged and hypo-
thequed [his words] to Messrs. John de Neufville &
Son, of Amsterdam, or their representatives, as we
do engage and hypotheque to them in the name of
the whole Congress of the Thirteen United States of
North America, generally, all the lands, cities, terri-
tories, and possessions of the said Thirteen States,
which they may have or possess at present, and
which they may have or possess in the future, with
all their income, revenue, and produce, until the
entire payment of this loan and the interests due
thereon." My observation upon this was, that it
demanded an extravagant security for a trifling
sum, that it was lending little more than a guilder
on each inhabitant's estate, and that it was absurd

68 The Works of [1781

to require a mortgage on my estate for the loan of a
guilder. He answered that this was usual in all
loans made in Holland to foreign states, and that
the money could not otherwise be obtained.

The second proposition was (verbatim, as the
first) : " That out of the produces again through all
those Thirteen States of America, shall be sent over
and shipped to Europe, and chiefly, or as much as
possible, to the port of Amsterdam, during the ten
years of this loan, the double of one tenth part of
this loan to the value of four hundred thousand
guilders, which, as far as is possible, they will come
to Amsterdam, shall be sold there by Messrs. John
de Neufville & Son, and what goes to other ports,
by their correspondents, and the money kept at their
disposal for the use of Congress, at least during the
first five years; and, during the last five years of
this loan, one half of this money is to serve to dis-
charge every year one tenth part of the money bor-
rowed, engaging that, before the end of the tenth
year, there will be remitted in such a manner, and
left in the hands of said John de Neufville & Son, of
Amsterdam, a sufficient sum of money to discharge
this whole loan, with the interest due thereon."

You will observe that this article is obscurely ex-
pressed. I was obliged to demand an eclaircisse-
ment in conversation. The conversation was also
difficult to understand, M. de Neufville's English not
being then of the clearest. But from the whole,
after much discourse, I gathered that we were to
send over every year for the first five years in to-
bacco, rice, indigo, codfish, oil, etc., etc., the value of

1781] Benjamin Franklin 69

four hundred thousand guilders, to be sold by
Messrs. John de Neufville & Son for our use, on a
commission of five per cent., and that the money
was to remain in their hands to enable them to pay
off in the last five years the principal of the loan,
though one half of it was to remain in their hands
till the end of the term. A subsequent article also
provides that one hundred thousand guilders more
should be annually sent over in produce to them,
and sold, to discharge the interest.

My objections were, that if we were able to pur-
chase produce in value two millions of guilders to
lodge in the hands of Messrs. de Neufville & Son,
we might use that sum in our affairs at home, and
should have no occasion to borrow it in Holland;
and that, if we were to buy up this value of produce
with the money borrowed, and to lodge it in the
hands of those gentlemen, it would be borrowing
money to give them the use of it for a number of
years without interest, while we were paying interest
for it ourselves.

One would think this project, if it could take,
might be sufficiently profitable for these gentlemen;
but in another paper, part French, part English,
proposed for me to sign, it was to be stipulated that,
after exchanging for the new promises all those
transacted by Messrs. Fizeau & Grand to the
amount of forty or fifty thousand guilders, which
exchange was to be made without charge ; " pour le
reste de cet emprunt il leur (Messrs. de Neufville et
fils) sera alloue, outre les conditions d'interest, etc.,
contenues dans les termes y stipules, un per cent.

70 The Works of [1781

d'int^rest, savoir, dix per cent, une seule fois sur les
sommes qu'ils negocieront ; et en outre deux per cent.
encore, y compris toutes les allouances ordinaires et
extraordinaires, fraix k faire, et toute commission,
sans qu'ils pourront jamais rien exiger de plus k ce
sujet."

Very gracious terms these! by which, after stop-
ping a tenth part of the sum borrowed, they would
be content with two per cent, upon the rest to defray
charges.

Besides this, I was led to understand that it would
be very agreeable to these gentlemen if, in acknow-
ledgment of their zeal for our cause and great ser-
vices in procuring this loan, they would be made
by some law of Congress the general consignee of
America, to receive and sell upon commission, by
themselves and correspondents in the different ports
and nations, all the produce of America that should
be sent by our merchants to Europe. On my re-
marking the extravagance and impossibility of this
proposition, it was modestly reduced to the follow-
ing, wherein I am supposed to say and sign:

"Je veux bien encore, pour les engager (Messrs.
de Neufville et fils) k suivre avec le m6me zfele qu'ils
y ont employe jusqu'ici pour les interests de I'Ame-
rique, appuyer de mes recommandations leur solici-
tations aupr^s du Congr^s, pour qu'il leur soit
accord^ pour la suite le titre de Commissioners for
trade and navigation and Treasurers of General Con-
gress, and every private State of the Thirteen United
States of North America, through the Seven United
Provinces; dont il leur sera alloue commissions regu-

1781] Benjamin Franklin 71

litres et usitees de commerce, payement, et emprunt,
tels que d'honn6tes, negociants pourront les passer
sans en pretendre jamais d'autre appointement.
Donne a Passy, le, etc."

By this time, I fancy, your Excellency is satisfied
that I was wrong in supposing John de Neufville as
much a Jew as any in Jerusalem, since Jacob was
not content with any per cents, but took the whole
of his brother Esau's birthright, and his posterity
did the same by the Canaanites, and cut their throats
into the bargain; which, in my conscience, I do not
think Mr. John de Neufville has the least inclination
to do by us while he can get any thing by our being
alive. I am, with the greatest esteem, etc.,

B. Franklin.

MXI

TO WILLIAM ALEXANDER

Passy, 15 December, 1781.

Dear Sir: — I thank you for informing me of your
intended journey. You know so well the prevaiHng
sentiments here, and mine in particular, that it is
unnecessary for me to express them; and, having
never been believed on that side of the water, it
would be useless. I will say, however, that I think
the language you mention very proper to be held,
as it is the truth ; though the truth may not always
be proper. ^

^ Mr. Alexander had written Franklin of his purpose to visit Lon-
don, and in his letter had said: "I shall probably be interrogated
about the disposition in this country to peace. My own idea is, that

72 The Works of [1781

Wishing you a good voyage and happy return to
your children, I am, with great esteem, dear sir,
yours, etc., B. Franklin.

MXII

TO DAVID HARTLEY

Passy, 15 December, 1781.

My Dear Friend: — I received your favor of Sep-
tember 26th, containing your very judicious propo-
sition of securing the spectators in the opera and
play-houses from the danger of fire. I communi-
cated it where I thought it might be useful. You
will see by the enclosed that the subject has been
under consideration here. Your concern for the se-
curity of life, even the lives of your enemies, does
honor to your heart and your humanity. But what
are the lives of a few idle haunters of play-houses,
compared with the many thousands of worthy men
and honest, industrious families butchered and de-
stroyed by this devilish war? O that we could find
some happy invention to stop the spreading of the
flames, and put an end to so horrid a conflagration!
Adieu, I am ever yours most affectionately,

B. Franklin.

you seek only your independence, and that this country, were that
secured, will be moderate in other matters, as the object of the war
does not seem to be conquest. Let me know if this is proper lan-
guage. I notice that a courtly argioment has been used in Parliament
for continuing the continental war, that withdrawing would make you
insolent, and give France exclusive advantages. Were it not proper
that this were contradicted flatly? Any commissions you may have
will be taken care of, and I shall be back, barring accidents, in three
weeks." — Editor.

lySi] Benjamin Franklin 73

MXIII

TO CHARLES W. F. DUMAS

Passy, 19 December, 1781.

Dear Sir: — I duly received yours of the nth, by
young M. de Neufville, enclosing the pamphlets, of
which I gave one the next day to M. Boudoin. It
was so long since we had heard from you that we
feared you were sick.

I enclose sundry American newspapers, out of
which perhaps something may be drawn for your
printers. There are the orders of General Greene
after the battle of Eutaw Springs, by which it ap-
pears that the militia behaved to general satisfac-
tion. There are also the proceedings relating to
Colonel Isaac Hayne, which it may be well to publish,
as probably we may soon hear that General Greene,
according to his promise in his proclamation, has
hanged some of the British officers in retaliation;
and the knowledge of these proceedings may operate
in his justification. In the German papers there are
two dialogues, of which you can best judge whether
the printing of them in Germany may not have some
little effect in opposition to Faucitt's recruitings I
suppose this letter may find you at Amsterdam, and
therefore I send it under cover to Mr. Adams, with
the usual compHments of the approaching season.

B. Franklin.

^ William Faucitt was the person employed by the British govern-
ment to procxire troops in Germany for the American service.

74 The Works of [1781

MXIV

TO MISS MARTHA LAURENS

Passy, 29 December, 1781.

Madam: — I received your very sensible letter of
the 14th past. Your brother, Colonel Laurens,
being here when I received the former, I informed
him of the steps I had then taken respecting your
good father, and requested him to answer your letter
for me. I did suppose he had done it ; but his great
and constant occupation while here might occasion
his omitting it. The purport was that, on a report
of your father's being harshly treated, I wrote in
his behalf to an old friend, Sir Grey Cooper, Secre-
tary of the Treasury, complaining of it. His answer
was that he had inquired, and found the report
groundless, and he sent me enclosed a letter he re-
ceived from the Lieutenant of the Tower, assuring
him that Mr. Laurens was treated with great kind-
ness, was very sensible of it, thankful for it, and
frequently expressed his satisfaction. On this 1 be-
came more easy on his account. But, a little before
I received your letter, I had one from Mr. Benjamin
Vaughan, who is connected with the family of Mr.
Manning, which informed me that Mr. Laurens was
really in want of necessaries, and desired to know if
any provision was made for his subsistence. I wrote
immediately to Mr. Hodgson, in whose hands I had
lodged some money, requesting him to hold one
himdred pounds of it at the disposition of Mr.
Laurens, and to acquaint Mr. Vaughan with it.

About this time I received two letters, one from

i78i] Benjamin Franklin 75

Mr. Burke, member of Parliament, complaining that
his friend, General Burgoyne, in England on his
parole, was reclaimed and recalled by Congress, and
requesting I would find some means of permitting
him to remain. The other was from the Congress,
enclosing a resolve that empowered me to offer Gen-
eral Burgoyne in exchange for Mr. Laurens. Per-
ceiving by Mr. Burke's letter that he was very
desirous of obtaining his friend's liberty, and having
no immediate intercourse with the British ministry,
I thought I could not do better than to enclose the
resolve in my answer to his letter, and request him
to negotiate the exchange. When I received yours I
was in expectation of having soon an answer from
Mr. Burke and Mr. Hodgson, which would enable me
to give you more satisfactory inforaiation. I there-
fore delayed writing to you from post to post till I
should hear from them, and fearing from the length
of time that my letters had miscarried, I sent copies
of them.

It is but yesterday that I received an answer from
Mr. Hodgson, dated the 21st instant, in which he
writes me : "I received your favor of the 1 9th ultimo,
and immediately acquainted Mr. Vaughan with your
directions concerning the supplying Mr. Laurens.
He has been acquainted therewith; but hitherto no
application has been made to me for the money;
whenever it is, you may be assured it shall be com-
plied with." No answer has come to my hands from
Mr. Burke; but I see, by the newspaper Mr. Hodgson
sends me, that he has endeavored to execute the com-
mission. I enclose that paper for your satisfaction.

76 The Works of [1781

together with a copy of your father's petition to
ParHament, on which I do not find that they have
yet come to any result; but, observing that he
makes no complaint in that petition of his being
pinched in the article of subsistence, I hope that part
of our intelligence from London may be a mistake.
I shall, however, you may depend, leave nothing un-
done that is in my power to obtain his release, and
I assure you that the thought of the pleasure it must
afford a child, whose mind is of so tender a sensibil-
ity, and filled with such true filial duty and affec-
tion, will be an additional spur to my endeavors. I
suppose Mr. Adams has informed you that he has
ordered another himdred pounds sterling to be paid
to Mr. Laurens, and I hope you will soon have the
happiness of hearing that he is at liberty. With
very great regard, I have the honor to be, madam,
etc., B. Franklin.

MXV

FROM COUNT DE VERGENNES

Versailles, 31 December, 1781.

Sir: — I have received the letter you did me the
honor to write me the 27th instant. I shall not
enter into an examination of the successive varia-
tions and augmentations of your demands on me for
funds to meet your payments. I shall merely re-
mark that whenever you shall consider yourself fully
authorized to dispose of the proceeds of the Dutch
loan, on behalf of Congress, I will propose to M. de

1781] Benjamin Franklin 'Jl

Fleury to supply you with the million required, as
soon as it shall have been paid into the royal treas-
ury. But I think it my duty, sir, to inform you that
if Mr. Morris issues drafts on this same million, I
shall not be able to provide for the payment of them,
and shall leave them to be protested. I ought also
to inform you that there will be nothing more sup-
plied than the million above mentioned; and if the
drafts which you have already accepted exceed that
sum, it must be for you to contrive the means of
meeting them. I shall make an exception only in
favor of those of Mr. Morris, provided they shall not
exceed the remainder of the Dutch loan, after de-
ducting the million, which shall be placed at your
disposal, and the expenses of the loan. I have the
honor to be, etc.,

De Vergennes.

MXVI

OF THE PAPER MONEY OF THE UNITED STATES OF
AMERICA

Much conversation has arisen lately on the sub-
ject of this money, and few persons being well
acquainted with the nature of it, you may possibly
oblige many of your readers by the following account
of it.

When Great Britain commenced the present war
upon the colonies, they had neither arms nor am-
munition, nor money to purchase them or to pay
soldiers. The new government had not immediately

78 The Works of [1781

the consistence necessary for collecting heavy taxes ;
nor would taxes that could be raised within the year
during peace have been sufficient for a year's ex-
pense in time of war ; they therefore printed a quan-
tity of paper bills, each expressing to be of the value
of a certain number of Spanish dollars, from one to
thirty; with these they paid, clothed, and fed their
troops, fitted out ships, and supported the war dur-
ing five years against one of the most powerful
nations of Europe.

The paper thus issued passed current in all the
internal commerce of the United States at par with
silver during the first year; supplying the place of
the gold and silver formerly current, but which was
sent out of the country to purchase arms, etc., or to
defray expenses of the army in Canada; but the
great number of troops necessary to be kept on foot
to defend a coast of near five hundred leagues in
length from an enemy who, being masters at sea,
could land troops where they pleased, occasioned
such a demand for money and such frequent ad-
ditional emissions of new bills, that the quantity
became much greater than was wanted for the pur-
poses of commerce; and, the commerce being dim-
inished by the war, the surplus quantity of cash was
by that means also proportionally augmented.

It has been long and often observed that when
the current money of a country is augmented be-
yond the occasions for money, as a medium of com-
merce, its value as money diminishes. Its interest
is reduced, and the principal sinks, if some means
are not found to take off the surplus quantity. Sil-

1781] Benjamin Franklin 79

ver may be carried out of the country that produces
it, and thereby prevent too great fall of its value in
that country. But, when by this means it grows
more plentiful in all other countries, nothing pre-
vents its sinking in value. Thus within three hun-
dred years since the discovery of gold in America,
and the vast quantities of gold and silver imported
from thence and spread over Europe and the rest of
the world, those metals have sunk in value four
fifths — that is, five ounces of silver will not purchase
more labor now than an ounce would have done
before that discovery.

Had Spain been able to confine all that treasure
within its own territories, silver would probably
have been there of no more value by this time than
iron or lead. The exportation has kept its value on
a level with its value in other parts of the world.
Paper money not being easily received out of the
country that makes it, if the quantity becomes ex-
cessive, the depreciation is quicker and greater.

Thus the excessive quantities which necessity
obliged the Americans to issue for continuing the
war, occasioned a depreciation of value, which, com-
mencing towards the end of 1776, has gone on aug-
menting, till, at the beginning of the present year,
fifty, sixty, and as far as seventy dollars in paper
were reckoned not more than equal to one dollar in
silver, and the prices of all things rose in proportion.

Before the depreciation commenced, the Congress,
fearing it, stopped for a time the emission of new
bills, and resolved to supply their occasions by bor-
rowing. Those who lent them the paper money at

8o The Works of [1781

that time and until March, 1778, fixed their property
and prevented its depreciation, the interest being
regularly paid by bills of exchange on France, which
supports the value of the principal sums lent.

These loans not being sufficient, the Congress
were forced to print more bills, and depreciation
proceeded. The Congress would borrow no more
on the former conditions of paying the interest in
French money at Paris, but great sums were offered
and lent them on the terms of being paid the interest
and repaid the principal in the same bills in America.

These loans in some degree lessened, but did not
quite take away, the necessity of new emissions, so
that it at length arrived at the excessive difference
between the value of paper and silver that is above
mentioned.

To put an end to this evil, which destroyed all
certainty in commerce, the Congress first resolved to
diminish the quantity gradually by taxes, which,
though nominally vastly great, were really less heavy
than they appeared to be, and were readily paid.
By these taxes fifteen millions of Spanish dollars, of
the two hundred millions extant, are to be brought
in monthly and burnt. This operation will destroy
the whole quantity, to wit, two hundred millions,
in about fourteen months. Thirty millions have
already been so destroyed.

To prevent in the meantime the farther progress
of the depreciation, and give some kind of deter-
minate value to the paper, it was ordained that, for
every sum of forty dollars payable by any person as
tax, he might discharge himself by paying one dollar

1781] Benjamin Franklin 81

in silver. Whether this expedient will produce the
effect intended or not, experience and time must
discover.

The general effect of the depreciation among the
inhabitants of the States has been this, that it has
operated as a gradual tax upon them, their business
has been done and paid for by the paper money, and
every man has paid his share of the tax according
to the time he retained any of the money in his
hands, and to the depreciation within that time.
Thus it has proved a tax on money, a kind of prop-
erty very difficult to be taxed in any other mode;
and it has fallen more equally than many other
taxes, as those people paid most who, being richest,
had most money passing through their hands.

With regard to the paper money or bills borrowed
by the Congress, it appears by the above account to
be under two different descriptions.

First, the quantity of bills borrowed before the
depreciation, the interest of which in silver was to
be and is paid. The principal of this sum is consid-
ered as equal in value to so many dollars of silver as
were borrowed in paper, and will be paid in silver
accordingly.

Secondly, the quantities of bills borrowed in dif-
ferent stages of the depreciation down to the present
time. These sums are, by a resolution of Congress,
to be repaid in silver according to the value they
were of in silver at the time they were lent, and the
interest is to be paid at the same rate. Thus those
lenders have their property secured from the loss by
depreciation subsequent to the time of their loan.

VOL. IX. 6.

82 The Works of [1781

All the inhabitants are satisfied and pleased with
this arrangement, their public debt being by this
means reduced to a small sum. And the new paper
money, which bears interest, and for the payment of
which solid funds are provided, is actually in credit
equal to real silver.

If any persons living in distant countries have,
through their absence from their property in Amer-
ica, suffered loss by not having it timely fixed in the
several loans above mentioned, it is not doubted but
that, upon an application to Congress stating the
case, they will meet with redress.

The real money used in the United States is
French, Spanish, Portuguese, and English coins,
gold and silver. The most common is Spanish milled
dollars, worth five livres five sols toumois.

The nominal money is generally paper, reckoned
in pounds, shillings, and pence, of different value in
the different States when compared with real money,
and that value often changing, so that nothing cer-
tain can be said of it. Everywhere the accounts are
kept in nominal pounds, shillings, and pence, the
pound containing twenty shillings, and the shilling
twelve pence, whatever may be the real value.

Bills of exchange are frequently drawn on Europe ;
the rate of exchange differing in different States, and
fluctuating in the same State, occasioned by the
greater or less plenty of bills or of demand for others ;
they are commonly drawn at thirty days' sight.

The usages in buying and selling merchandises are
much the same as in Europe, except that in Virginia
the planter carries his tobacco to magazines, where it

1782] Benjamin Franklin 83

is inspected by officers, who ascertain its quality and
give receipts expressing the quantity. The mer-
chants receive these receipts in payment for goods,
and afterwards draw the tobacco out of the maga-
zines for exportation. Weights and measures are
uniform in all the States, following the standard of
Great Britain.

Money is lent either upon bond or on mortgage,
payable in a year with interest. The interest differs
in the different States from five to seven per cent.

Goods are generally imported on eighteen months'
credit from Europe, sold in the country at twelve
months' credit.

Billets or promissory notes, payable to the creditor
or order, are in use, and demandable when due, as
well as accepted bills of exchange, without any days
of grace, but by particular favor.

MXVII

TO MESSRS. HENRY ROYLE, THOMAS HELT, JOSEPH
HEATHCOTE, JOHN ROWBOTHAM, AND JOHN SCHO-
FIELD, MANUFACTURERS AT HATHERTON, NEAR

STOCKPORT.

Passy, 4 January, 1782.

Gentlemen : — I received the propositions you did
me the honor to address to me by the hand of Mr.
Wild.

There is no doubt but that a body of sober, in-
dustrious, and ingenious artisans, men of honest and
religious principles, such as you and your friends are
described to be, would be a valuable acquisition to

84 The Works of [1782

any country ; and I am certain you would meet with
a kind and friendly reception in Pennsylvania, and
be put into possession of all the rights and privileges
of free citizens; but neither that government nor
any other in America that I know of has ever been
at any public expense to augment the number of its
inhabitants. All who are established there have
come at their own charge. The country affords to
strangers a good climate, fine, wholesome air, plenty
of provisions, good laws, just and cheap government,
with all the liberties, civil and religious, that reason-
able men can wish for. These inducements are so
great, and the mmiber of people in all nations of
Europe who wish to partake of them is so consider-
able, that if the States were to undertake transport-
ing people at the expense of the public, no revenues
that they have would be sufficient. Having there-
fore no orders or authority either from the Congress
or the State of Pennsylvania to procure settlers or
manufacturers by engaging to defray them [sic], I
cannot enter into the contract proposed in your
second article. The other articles would meet with
no difficulty. Men are not forced there into the
public service, and a special law might easily be
obtained to give you a property for seven years in
the useful inventions you may introduce.

You will do well to weigh maturely the following
considerations. If you can establish yourselves
there during the war, it is certain that your manu-
factures will be much more profitable, as they sell at
very high prices now, owing to the difficulty and
risk of transporting them from Europe; but then

1782] Benjamin Franklin 85

your passages also will be more expensive, and your
risk greater of having your project ruined, by being
taken, stripped, and imprisoned. If you wait till a
peace, you will pass much cheaper and more se-
curely, and you have a better chance of settling your-
selves and posterity in a comfortable and happy
situation. On these points your prudence must de-
termine. If I were to advise, I should think it
rather most prudent to wait for a peace; and then
to victual a vessel in some port of Ireland, where it
can be done cheaply, and to which you might easily
pass from Liverpool. There are, I understood,
some apprehensions that your ministers may pro-
cure a law to restrain the emigration of manufac-
turers; but I think that, weak and wicked as they
are, and tyrannical as they are disposed to be, they
will hardly venture upon an act that shall make a
prison out of England, to confine men for no other
crime but that of being useful and industrious, and
to discourage the learning of useful mechanic arts,
by declaring that as soon as a man is master of his
business he shall lose his liberty and become a pris-
oner for life, while they suffer their idle and extra-
vagant gentry to travel and reside abroad at their
pleasure, spending the incomes of their estates,
racked from their laborious, honest tenants, in
foreign follies, and among French and Italian whores
and fiddlers. Such a law would be too glaringly
unjust to be borne with.

I wish you success in what you may resolve to
undertake; and you will find me ever your assured
friend and humble servant. B. Franklin.

86 The Works of [1782

MXVIII

FROM ROBERT R. LIVINGSTON

Philadelphia, 7 January, 1782.

Dear Sir: — As it does not appear improbable that
the humihation and misfortunes of Great Britain
may produce the same sentiments which a spirit of
moderation dictates to the other belHgerent powers,
and lead her to concur with them in their wishes
for peace, it cannot be improper to acquaint you
with the objects America most wishes to attain,
and to furnish you with the arguments on which
they found their claim to them. For such is the
confidence, not only in the justice of his most Christ-
ian Majesty, but in his friendship, that they firmly
persuade themselves that he will not only preserve
for them their undoubted rights, but that he will
even go so far as to procure for them those advan-
tages they may reasonably demand on the close of
a successful war, and I am perfectly satisfied that
the loose hints that a detail of their sentiments may
afford you and our other Commissioners, will be
strengthened and improved by your lights in such
manner as to come before his Majesty in the most
advantageous form.

The first point of discussion will be the limits of
the United States. The instructions given to Mr.
Adams ^ explain the wishes of Congress on that sub-
ject; nor can they admit of many doubts, except so
far as they relate to our southern extent, the bound-
ary between us and Canada being very well ascer-
tained by grants, charters, proclamations, and other

^ See Secret Journal of Congress, Vol. II., p. 225.

1782] Benjamin Franklin ^y

acts of government, and more particularly by the
settlements of people who are engaged in the same
cause with us, and who have the same rights with
the rest of the subjects of the United States.

Our western and northwestern extent will prob-
ably be contested with some warmth, and the rea-
soning on that subject be deduced from general
principles, and from proclamations and treaties with
the Indians.

The subject is undoubtedly intricate and delicate ;
yet, upon candid investigation, I believe it will ap-
pear that our extension to the Mississippi is founded
in justice, and that our claims are at least such as
the events of the war give us a right to insist upon.
Your situation furnishing you amply with the vari-
ous documents on which Great Britain founded her
claim to all the country east of the Mississippi pre-
vious to the treaty of Paris, I will not trouble you
with references to them, which would at any rate
be imperfect from the want which prevails here of
books and papers. Taking it for granted that the
king of Great Britain was entitled to that extent
of country (which he at least cannot contravene),
it only remains to examine how far he considers it
as within the limits of some of the United States, be-
cause he can no more pretend to abridge those limits,
than claim any other right of which the United
States are in possession.

His idea of these limits is apparent from charters
granted by the crown ; and, from recent grants made
by its representatives in several of the States, it ap-
pears that they considered their authority to grant

88 The Works of [1782

lands to the westward, as coextensive with the right
of Great Britain, unless they were restricted by their
interference with other governments. Upon this
principle the servants of the crown in New York
granted land on the borders of Lake Erie to the
westward of Niagara. And Virginia, even after the
proclamation of 1763, patented considerable tracts
upon the Ohio, far beyond the Appalachian Moun-
tains. It is true, the several governments were pro-
hibited at different times from granting lands beyond
certain limits, but these were clearly temporary re-
strictions, which the policy of maintaining a good
tinderstanding with the natives dictated, and were
always broken through after a short period, as is
evinced by the grants above mentioned, made sub-
sequent to the proclamation in 1763. And, indeed,
the proclamation itself furnishes a substantial argu-
ment of the opinion of Britain, with respect to the
right which some of the States had to extend to the
westward of the limits it prescribed; otherwise it
would not have been necessary to prohibit their
governors from granting, as their patents would, in
such cases, have been invalid, and themselves sub-
jected to the censure of their master, upon whom
they were dependent.

Unless, therefore, these proclamations absolutely
destroyed the right, they must be considered as
proofs of its existence at least, and after they were
issued. The slightest examination of them shows
that they did not take away, but restrained, an
existing right; and the subsequent grants by the
governors evidence that they were, as is before

1782] Benjamin Franklin 89

asserted, mere temporary restrictions. The same
reasoning applies to the treaty at Fort Stanwix,
and to other agreements taken from treaties with
the Indians. Strong evidence in our favor is also
found in the map made by the king's geographer,
in which Virginia and the Carohnas are laid down
as extending to the Mississippi, shortly after the
last war. Arguments may be drawn against us by
the Quebec Bill; but as this is one of the laws that
occasioned the war, to build any thing upon it would
be to urge one wrong in support of another. But
this matter may perhaps be seen in a different light,
and our pretensions placed upon a more extensive
basis, by recurring to general principles, and asking
whence Great Britain derived her right to the waste
lands in America. Evidently from the allegiance
which a subject is supposed to carry with him wher-
ever he goes, even though he dislikes his constitution
and seeks one that pleases him better. Upon this
principle the oppressed subjects of Great Britain,
seeking freedom in the wilds of America, were sup-
posed to extend to it the sovereignty of the kingdom
they had left. The rights of the king of Great Brit-
ain, then, to America were incident to his right of
sovereignty over those of his subjects that settled
America and explored the lands he claims. For the
idea of right derived from mere discovery, and the
vain ceremony of taking possession without planting
and continuing that possession, is now fully exploded.
If, then, we admit what is necessary to our inde-
pendence, that the right of sovereignty over the
people of America is forfeited, it must follow that

90 The Works of [1782

all rights founded in that sovereignty are forfeited
with it, and that, upon our setting up a new sover-
eign in America, the rights which the first claimed,
as such, devolve upon the second. Upon this prin-
ciple Great Britain is left without a foot of land in
America beyond the limits of those governments
which acknowledge her jurisdiction.

It is in vain to say that the king of Great Britain
holds these back lands by a cession from some other
powers; since those cessions were grounded upon a
prior claim, derived through the people of America,
and only served to confirm the right which they gave
the king of Great Britain while he was their sover-
eign, and which he loses with his sovereignty over
them. This mode of reasoning is warranted by the
practice Great Britain uniformly held, of treating
with the Indian nations through their American
governors, who have frequently executed with them
the most solemn acts, and sometimes extended the
king's protection to the nations who occupy the
waste lands, which are the subject of our present
claim. The expense of retaining these in friendship
almost always devolved upon the respective States,
who, till lately, particularly in New York, voted
the sums necessary to support smiths among them,
and to procure the presents which were annually
made them. From hence, then, it follows that, if
the king of Great Britain has any right over the back
lands in America, it must be as king of the people
of America ; ceasing to be king of those people, his
right also ceases. If he has no right over the back
lands, but merely as protector of the savage nations

1782] Benjamin Franklin 91

that inhabit them, that connection and duty also
devolve upon us, since they evidently claimed that
protection from him as king of the colonies, and
through the governors of those colonies and not as
sovereign of a country three thousand miles from
them. This country having chosen a new sovereign,
they may rightfully claim its protection.

There is some reason to believe that Great Britain
considered their rights in many instances as extend-
ing no further than their right of pre-emption and
protection, as may be inferred from passages in the
negotiations for a peace with France in the year 1 761,
referred to in the margin. This suggests a new idea,
which, however, I am not warranted by an act of
Congress in mentioning, and therefore you will only
consider it as the sentiment of an individual. If
the mediators should not incline to admit our claim,
but determine on restricting our limits, either by
the extent of our grants, the course of the mountains,
the sources of the rivers, or any other of those arbi-
trary rules that must be sought for when solid prin-
ciples are relinquished, perhaps it would be difficult
to bring them to agree that the country beyond those
limits belongs to the nations which inhabit it; that
it should enjoy its independence under the guaranty
of France, Spain, Great Britain, and America, and
be open to the trade of those whose lands border
upon them.

This, though restrictive of our rights, would free
us from the well grounded apprehensions that the
vicinity of Great Britain and her command of the
savages would give us. They already possess Canada

92 The Works of [1782

and Nova Scotia; should that immense territory,
which lies upon the rear of the States, from the Gulf
of St. Lawrence to the Gulf of Mexico, be acknow-
ledged to be vested in Great Britain, it will render our
situation truly hazardous. The lands, as you know,
are infinitely better than those on the coast; they
have an open communication with the sea by the
rivers St. Lawrence and the Mississippi, and with
each other by those extensive inland seas with which
America abounds. They will be settled with the
utmost rapidity from Europe, but more particularly
from these States. Attachment to the government,
freedom from taxes, a prospect of bettering their
fortimes, and the fertility of the soil, will invite
numbers to leave us. This co-operating with the
leaven of dissatisfaction, which will continue to
work here for many years, may produce the most
dangerous effects, especially upon the Southern
States, which will, from the nature of their soil and
husbandry, be thinly settled for many years, while
the lands which lie near them beyond the mountains
will soon be filled with a hardy race of people in-
imical to them, who to their own strength will be
enabled to join that of the savages subject to their
command.

If it is an object with the maritime powers to
lessen the power, and by that means diminish the
dangerous dcmmion, that Great Britain has in some
measure usurped over the ocean, they must prevent
her possessing herself of the country in question,
since, besides the whole fur and peltry trade that
she will thereby engross, the demands of this great

1782] Benjamin Franklin 93

country will give a new spring to her mantifactiires,
which, though the Floridas should be ceded to Spain,
will find their way into it by the River St. Lawrence,
and through the numerous lakes and rivers which
communicate with it. Add to this, that settlements
are already formed beyond the Appalachian Moun-
tains by people who acknowledge the United States,
which not only give force to our claims, but render
a rehnquishment of their interest highly impolitic
and unjust.

These, and a variety of other reasons, which will
suggest themselves to you and the gentlemen joined
in the commission with you, will doubtless be urged
in such terms as to convince the court of France that
our mutual interests conspire to keep Great Britain
from any territory on this continent beyond the
bounds of Canada. Should the Floridas be ceded
to Spain, she will certainly unite with you on this
point, as the security of that cession will depend
upon its success.

The -fisheries will probably be another source of
litigation, not because our rights are doubtful, but
because Great Britain has never paid much attention
to rights which interfere with her views.

The arguments on which the people of America
found their claim to fish on the Banks of Newfound-
land arise, first, from their having once formed a
part of the British empire, in which state they always
enjoyed, as fully as the people of Britain themselves,
the right of fishing on those Banks. They have
shared in all the wars for the extension of that
right, and Britain could with no more justice have

94 The Works of [1782

excluded them from the enjoyment of it (even sup-
posing that one nation coiild possess it to the exclu-
sion of another), while they formed a part of that
empire, than they could exclude the people of London
or Bristol. If so, the only inquiry is, How have we
lost this right ? If we were tenants in common with
Great Britain while imited with her, we still con-
tinue so, unless by our own act we have relinquished
our title. Had we parted with mutual consent, we
should doubtless have made partition of our com-
mon rights by treaty. But the oppressions of Great
Britain forced us to a separation (which must be
admitted, or we have no right to be independent)
and it cannot certainly be contended that those op-
pressions abridged our rights, or gave new ones to
Britain. Our rights, then, are not invalidated by
this separation, more particularly as we kept up
our claim from the commencement of the war, and
assigned the attempt of Great Britain to exclude us
from the fisheries as one of the causes of our recur-
ring to arms.

The second groimd upon which we place our right
to fish on the Banks of Newfoimdland, provided we
do not come within such distance of the coasts of
other powers as the law of nations allows them to ap-
propriate, is the right which nature gives to all man-
kind to use its common benefit, so far as not to exclude
others. The sea cannot in its nature be appropri-
ated; no nation can put its mark upon it. Though
attempts have sometimes been made to set up an
empire over it, they have been considered as unjust
usurpations, and resisted as such, in turn, by every

1782] Benjamin Franklin 95

maritime nation in Europe. The idea of such em-
pire is now fully exploded by the best writers.

The whale fishery, in every sea, and even upon
the coasts of princes who do not exercise it them-
selves, is considered as a common right, and is en-
joyed by those nations that choose to pursue it.
The cod fishery, upon the Dogger Bank, and other
parts of the European seas, is claimed exclusively
by no nation. The herring fishery is carried on daily
by the Dutch on the coast of England; and, if the
Banks of Newfoundland are not equally common, it
is because some nations have relinquished their
rights, and others find it impossible to exercise them,
for want of harbors to receive their vessels, or shores
to dry their fish on.

When we say we are willing to exercise it under
these inconveniences, there can certainly be no fur-
ther dispute about our right, and the only remaining
questions will be the distance that we ought to keep
from the shores possessed by the enemy; though,
strictly speaking, from our first principle, we have
a common right in them.

This subject is treated so much at large by Grotius
and Vattel that I do not think it necessary to detail
arguments, which, though urged by people here from
their feelings, you will find much better stated there.
Give me leave, however, to urge some that may arise
from our particular circimistances. All the New
England States are much interested in this point;
the State of Massachusetts more particularly ; it has
no staple; it does not raise its own bread; its prin-
cipal commerce consisted, before the war, in fish,

96 The Works of [1782

which it supplied to the rest of the continent in ex-
change for rice, flour, etc., and to the West Indies
for rum, sugar, and molasses. It shipped little to
Europe: first, because it could not fish so cheap as
the people of England; secondly, because their fish
were not so well cured in general, owing to their
fishing at improper seasons, and to their using salt
which is said to be of a more harsh nature than what
the European vessels bring out with them. Should
this State and New Hampshire, which is almost in
similar circimistances, be excluded from the fisher-
ies, they must be reduced to great distress. It will
be impossible for them to pay for the necessaries
they must receive from abroad. They will see with
pain their sister States in the full enjoyment of the
benefits which will result from their independence,
while their own commerce is checked and their State
impoverished. They will consider their interests
as sacrificed to the happiness of others, and can
hardly forbear to foster that discontent which may
be productive of disunion and the most dangerous
divisions.

An idea has also gone forth, and it is fomented by
the disaffected, that France wishes, from interested
views, to monopolize the fisheries; or, at least, to
exclude all other competitors but Great Britain.
Those who have attended to the disinterested con-
duct of France during the war oppose to this senti-
ment the honor and good faith of their ally, the little
interest that he can have in excluding a people from
a right which would not interfere with his, since
France does little more than supply herself, and the

1782] Benjamin Franklin 97

New England fishery, for the most part, only sup-
pHes the continent and islands of America. They
see the care with which France has endeavored to
cultivate a good understanding between that king-
dom and these States, and they are persuaded so
inconsiderable an object will not be put in competi-
tion with the harmony which ought to subsist be-
tween them, or administer food to those unworthy
jealousies. And so much does this sentiment prevail
in Congress, that their prospects have not induced
them to alter your instructions: more particularly
as they have received through the minister of France
assurances that his Majesty was pleased with the
proofs Congress had given him of their confidence,
and that he would in no event make any sacrifices
of their essential interests which necessity should
not compel him to do; that he had no reason to
apprehend, from the events of the war, that such
necessity would exist. These events have become
so much more favorable since the date of the letter
which contained these assurances, that Congress
persuade themselves his Majesty will not be driven
to make sacrifices equally painful to him and injuri-
ous to us; but that, as we owe our success in war
to his magnanimity and generosity, we may be
equally indebted to his justice and firmness for an
honorable peace.

It is not improbable that Great Britain will en-
deavor to make some stipulations in favor of their
American partisans, who have been banished the
country, or whose property has been forfeited. You
will doubtless be sensible of the inconvenience and

9^ The Works of [1782

danger to which their return will subject us, and
the injustice of restoring to them what they have so
justly forfeited, while no compensation is made to
us for the loss of property and the calamities they
have occasioned.

There can be little doubt that every society may
rightfully banish from among them those who aim
at its subversion, and forfeit the property which they
can only be entitled to by the laws, and under the
protection of the society which they attempt to
destroy. Without troubling you, therefore, on the
point of right, I will just mention a few of the conse-
quences that would result from a stipulation in their
favor.

In the first place it will excite general dissatisfac-
tion and tumults. They are considered here as the
authors of the war. Those who have lost relations
and friends by it, those who have been insulted by
them while starving in prisons and prison-ships,
those who have been robbed and plundered, or who
have had their houses burned and their families ill-
treated by them, will, in despite of all law or treaties,
avenge themselves, if the real or supposed authors of
these calamities ever put themselves in their power;
nor will the government be able to prevent what the
feeling of the body of the people will justify.

Should they be permitted to reside among us, they
will neglect no means to injure and subvert our Con-
stitution and government, and to sow dissensions
among us in order to pave the way for the old sys-
tem. They will be dangerous partisans of the
enemy, equally unfriendly to France and to us, and

1782] Benjamin Franklin 99

will show themselves such upon every occasion. To
restore their property in many instances is now be-
come impossible. It has been sold from hand to
hand; the money arising from it has been sunk by
depreciation in the pubHc treasury. To raise the
value by taxes, or to wrest the lands from the hands
of the proprietors, is equally unjust and impossible.
Many of the very people who would demand the
restitution have grown rich by the spoil and plun-
der of this country. Many others, who were beggars
at the beginning of this war, owe their present afflu-
ence to the same cause.

So that at least the accormt between the two
nations should be liquidated before any claim can
be set up by the aggressors. How far it will be
possible to obtain a compensation for the injuries
wantonly done by the enemy, you will be best able
to judge; be assured that it is anxiously desired.

Give me leave to mention to you the necessity of
stipulating for the safe delivery of all records and
other papers of a pubhc and private nature which
the enemy have possessed themselves of; particu-
larly of the records of New York, which Mr. Tryon
sent to England; and the private papers of many
gentlemen of the law in different parts of the con-
tinent, by which the rights of individuals may be
materially affected.

Thus, sir, I have touched upon the principal points
that America wishes to attain in the peace which
must end this bloody war. Perhaps in so doing I
have given both you and myself unnecessary trouble,
since I have urged nothing but what your own

loo The Works of [1782

knowledge of the country, and that of the other gen-
tlemen in the commission, would have suggested to
you. However, conceiving that circumstances might
render it necessary for you to declare that you spoke
nothing more than the prevailing sentiments of your
court, this letter will serve to vouch for the assertion.

Should the Floridas be ceded to Spain, as there is
nothing Congress have more at heart than to main-
tain that friendly intercourse with them which this
revolution has happily begun, it will be essential to
fix their limits precisely, for which purpose the in-
structions to Mr. Adams will serve as your directions.

Affairs here are in the same state that they were
when I last wrote, except that the enemy in South
Carolina have called in all their outposts and shut
themselves up in Charleston, where they will be
closely invested when General St. Clair joins, which
must have happened about the last of December.
The brilhant expedition to St. Eustatia does the
highest honor to the Marquis de Bouille and the
French nation. I flatter myself that it will be of
singular use in Mr. Adams' negotiations. I have the
honor to be, dear sir, etc.,

Robert R. Livingston.

MXIX

TO ROBERT MORRIS

Passy, 9 January, 1782.

Sir:— I have long feared that by our continually
worrying the ministry here with successive after-

1782] Benjamin Franklin loi

clap demands for more and more money, we should
at length tire out their patience. Bills are still com-
ing in quantities drawn on Mr. Jay, Mr. Laurens, and
Mr. Adams. Spain and Holland have afforded httle
towards paying them; and recourse has therefore
been had to me. You will see by the enclosed letter
the situation I am at length brought into. With
the milHon mentioned, I shall be able to pay till the
end of February, when, if I can get no more money,
I must stop. I therefore give you this notice, that
provision may be made in time for discharging the
protests with honor. The friendly disposition to-
wards us continues, but we should take care not to
impose too much upon friendship. Let us exert
vigorously our own strength. I see yet no prospect
of peace this summer. The expense of the war to
France itself is heavy ; and we have had of her this
last year more than twenty millions.
I am ever, with greatest esteem, sir.
Your most obedient and most humble servant,

B. Franklin.

MXX

TO DAVID HARTLEY

Passy, 15 January, 1782.

Dear Sir: — I received a few days since your
favor of the 2d instant,^ in which you tell me that

^ FROM DAVID HARTLEY

London, 2 January, 1782.
My Dear Friend: — I have received the favor of yours of the 15th
of December, by Mr. Alexander. I most heartily join with you in

I02 The Works of [1782

Mr. Alexander had informed you "America was dis-
posed to enter into a separate treaty with Great
Britain." I am persuaded that your strong desire

the wish that we could find some means to stop the spreading flames
of this devilish war. I will not despair. The commtmications, which
he has imparted to me from you have revived my hope of peace. I
laid them before the minister immediately. We are at a suspense for
the present upon a very material preliminary. I did intend writing
to you at the present pause, that we might make our ground good as
we go on; but an accident which has happened obliges me to do it
without delay. For, having had a most essential question transmitted
to me from Lord North for explanation, when I would have applied
to Mr. Alexander, I could not hear of him; and now I find that he
has left his hotel these fovir or five days, and, his return being uncer-
tain, I must apply to you. I will state to you what has passed.

Upon my first interview with Mr. Alexander, he told me that the
late events would make no difference in the prospect of peace; that
America had no other wish than to see the termination of this war; that
no events would make them unreasonable on that subject, which senti-
ments Ukewise yoiu- letter expresses; and that no formal recognition
of independence would be required. I thought this a very fair open-
ing; but the next point which he explained to me seemed to be still
more material towards peace, viz., that America was disposed to enter
into a separate treaty with Great Britain, and their allies were dis-
posed to consent to it. I believe that it has been the unfortunate
imion of common cause between America and France which has for
the last three years turned aside the wish of the people of England for
peace. I verily believe (so deep is the jealousy of England and France)
that this country would fight for a straw to the last man, and the last
shilling, rather than be dictated to by France. I therefore consider
this as the greatest rub out of the way. I have often argued this
point with you upon former occasions, having at all times foreseen
that it would be the greatest rub in the road to peace, and I have
often stated it to you as an act of justice due to America from her
allies, not to drag her through a war of European resentments and
jealousies, beyond her original views and engagements; and, more-
over, I think the separation of the causes in the negotiation promises
much the shortest road to a general peace.

Upon Mr. Alexander's opening thus much to me, I told him I would
apply for the earliest opportvmity of laying these matters before the
minister. Accordingly on Friday morning, December the 21st, I
applied, through the means of the Earl of Guildford, father to Lord
North, a nobleman of a most respectable character, advanced in years,

1782] Benjamin Franklin 103

for peace has misled you, and occasioned your greatly
misunderstanding Mr. Alexander; as I think it
scarce possible he should have asserted a thing so

and attached by every possible tie to a son now in the most arduous
situation. I therefore requested the favor through his hands, as
giving me the most conciliatory access to the minister, to whom I was
preparing to make an application for peace. After the appointment
was made with Lord North for Friday evening, I rettuned to Mr. Alex-
ander, to consider the specific manner and terms in which I should
make my application. It had occurred to me, from what Mr. Alex-
ander had stated to me, that the Conciliatory Bill,* which I had moved
in the last Parliament, on the 27th of ]xme, 1780, would still serve as
a foundation to proceed upon ; I therefore carried it with me.

He told me that he and you knew the sense of the bill very well,
and that it would be entirely consonant to yotu- sentiments that I
shoiild state it to Lord North, as drawing an outline for a negotiation
of peace. However, to avoid all errors, I read the bill through to him,
and explained the view of each clause, viz., the style of Provinces of
North America, a general phrase, to avoid any term denoting depend-
ence or independence; the truce for an indefinite term; the articles
for intercourse for ten years certain; to restore an amicable corre-
spondence, and to abate animosities; the suspension of certain acts of
Parliament, to avoid every possible question of dependence or inde-
pendence; and to finish the work by a ratification of each article of
intercourse as agreed to, thereby to prevent all possible return of war.
I compared the articles of intercourse for a short term, and their rati-
fication into a permanent peace, to a well known mode of proceeding
in the laws of England, by lease and release, from temporary to per-
petual amity and peace.

Upon these groimds I took my commission from him for Lord
North, viz., the question of dependence or independence sub silentio,
a separate treaty with America, and to state the Conciliatory Bill of
June, 1780, as the outline of negotiation. I saw Lord North in the
evening, and stated the foregoing propositions to him as I have now
stated them to you. After having stated the compromise sub silentio
and the separate treaty, I left with Lord North the copy of the bill of
Jtme, 1780, together with a paper, entitled "Conciliatory Propositions,"
as explanatory of that bill, both enclosed with this. The next morn-
ing, viz., Saturday, December the 2 2d, I saw Mr. Alexander, and re-
ported to him what I had stated to Lord North, and showed him a
copy of the paper entitled "Conciliatory Propositions." He told me

*This bill may be found in the Diplomatic Correspondence, Vol. III.,
at p. 157; and remarks on the same, at p. 267.

I04 The Works of [1782

utterly void of foundation. I remember that you
have, as you say, often urged this on former occa-
sions, and that it always gave me more disgust than
my friendship for you permitted me to express. But
since you have now gone so far as to carry such a
proposition to Lord North, as arising from us, it is

that I had executed my commission perfectly to his intelligence of the
matter. I should tell you that, at the conclusion of my conversation
with Lord North, we both settled jointly the result thus: "I recom-
mend to yotir Lordship the propositions which I have had the honor
of stating to you, as general grounds of a proposed negotiation, leading
towards peace, under liberal constructions.'' Lord North said, in an-
swer: "So I imderstand them."

Upon this footing matters rested for some days. On Sunday last,
December the 30th, I received a message from Lord North, through
the means of Lord Guildford, requesting an explanation of this point,
viz.: "Who is authorized to treat on the part of America? whether
you or Mr. Adams, or both jointly; and whether the propositions above
stated would be acknowledged, as general grovmds of negotiation
towards peace, by the person or persons authorized to treat; because
it was necessary, before he could lay a matter of so great importance
before the Cabinet Council, that he should be entitled to say, these
propositions and general outlines come to me from responsible and
authorized persons." The moment I received the request of Lord
North, I agreed entirely with the necessity of an explanation on that
head. I had partly expected such an inquiry, and it gave me satis-
faction when it came, as I thought it the first reply towards a parley.
If the propositions had not gained some attention, it would have been
of very Uttle importance to have inquired whence they came. As to
the caution itself, it appears to me not only prudent but indispensable.
The forms of caution in such cases are the essentials of caution. I
had determined on my own accovmt, before this message, to have
written to you, that I might have received your sentiments directly
from yourself, without any further intervention, that we might pro-
ceed with caution and certainty in a matter of such infinite importance.
This message has only quickened my despatch. The two points of
explanation requested, I take to be these: whether the outlines above
recited are properly stated, always considering that they imply no
further than general grounds of negotiation towards peace, under liberal
constructions; and, secondly, by what authorized person or persons
any answer on this subject would be accepted; in short, a reqviisition
of credentials preparatory to a formal answer, which is so much the

1782] Benjamin Franklin 105

necessary that I shotild be explicit with you, and
tell you plainly that I never had such an idea ; and
I believe there is not a man in America, a few Eng-
lish Tories excepted, that would not spurn the
thought of deserting a noble and generous friend, for
the sake of a truce with an unjust and cruel enemy.

more necessary on the supposition of a favorable reception of the first
hint towards negotiation.

When I last saw Mr. Alexander, viz., about four or five days ago,
he had met with some desponding impressions, as if the ministry were
indisposed to peace, and that things wotild not do, etc. He did not
tell me upon what ground he had formed such apprehension ; however,
lest he should have imparted any such by letter to you, I will state
that point to you, because it may have infinite ill consequences to be
too touchy on such occasions. A premature jealousy may create the
very evil it suspects. The ministry in this coimtry are not every
thing. The sense of the people, when really expressed and exerted,
would be most prevalent. Suppose then it were a proved point that
every man in the ministry were in his heart adverse to peace. What
then? Withhold all overtures? By no means. I should advise the
very contrary in the strongest manner. I should say, let the over-
tures be made so much the more public and explicit by those who do
wish for peace. It is the unfortunate state of things which has hith-
erto bound the cause of France to any possible treaty with America,
and which has thereby thrown a national damp upon any actual
public exertions to procure a negotiation for peace with America. I
have the strongest opinion that if it were publicly known to the people
of England that a negotiation might be opened with America, upon
the terms above specified, that all the ministry together, if they were
ill disposed to a man, would not venture to thwart such a measure.

But why should it be supposed that the ministry, to a man, are ill
disposed to a peace? Suppose them to be half and half, and the
public wish and voice of the people in favor of negotiation, it is evi-
dent on which side the balance would incUne. But why should we
seek to throw a damp prematurely upon any chance? Why prestmie
even against any individual? I grant that it would be a bitter trial
of humility to be brought to a formal recognition of independence at
the haughty command of France, and I believe every part of the nation
would proceed to every extremity before they would submit to that.
But if that touchy point can be provided for sub sileniio, and if the
proposed treaty with America may be carried on free from control
by France, let us give the cause of peace a fair trial; at the worst we

io6 The Works of [1782

I have again read over your Conciliatory Bill,
with the manuscript propositions that accompany
it, and am concerned to find that one cannot give
vent to a simple wish for peace, a mere sentiment of
humanity, without having it interpreted as a dis-
position to submit to any base conditions that may be
offered us, rather than continue the war; for on no
other supposition could you propose to us a truce of
ten years, during which we are to engage not to
assist France, while you continue the war with her.
A truce, too, wherein nothing is to be mentioned
that may weaken your pretensions to dominion over
us, which you may therefore resume at the end of

should be but where we were, if we should fail. But why should we
expect to fail, when the greatest rub is removed, by the liberty of
entering separately into a treaty? I think it a most favorable event,
leading towards peace. Give us a truce with its concomitants, and a
little time so given for cooling will have most excellent effects on both
sides. Eternal peace and conciliation may then follow.

I send this to you by the quickest despatch, that we may bring this
point to a fair issue before the meeting of Parliament. God prosper
the blessed work of peace. I am ever yours most affectionately,

D. Hartley.

p. s. — January 8, 1782. Since writing this letter, I have seen Mr.
Alexander, and shall see him from time to time to commtmicate with
him. I do not suppose I shall have an answer from Lord North, till
the preliminary points are so settled as to enable him to give an answer
in form. The ministry might undoubtedly give a short negative, if
they thought proper; but I do not expect that. You may be assured
that I have and shall continue to enforce every argument in the most
conciUatory manner to induce a negotiation. I am very sorry for Mr.
Alexander's confinement, on his own account, and on that of his
friends, and because probably, in the future state of this business, his
personal exertions may be very serviceable in the cause of peace.
Every assistance and every exertion of mine will always be most
heartily devoted to that cause. I have nothing further to add, either
upon my own reflections or from my subsequent conversations with
Mr. Alexander, to what I have stated in the foregoing letter. If we
once make a good beginning upon the plan there stated, I should hope

1782] Benjamin Franklin 107

the term, or at pleasure; when we should have so
covered ourselves with infamy, by our treachery to
our first friend, as that no other nation can ever after
be disposed to assist us, however cruelly you might
think fit to treat us. Believe me, my dear friend,
America has too much imderstanding, and is too

that such a negotiation, founded on such principles, would promise
fair to produce every salutary and pacific consequence in the event.

D. H.

Remarks on the Conciliatory Bill

In the title and preamble of the bill, the words Provinces of North
America are used as general words, neither implying dependence nor
independence.

Clause i. The Truce is taken from the ConciUatory Act of 1778,
and is indefinite as to the proposed dtiration of the truce. Under this
clause it might be proposed to negotiate three points, viz.; the re-
moval of the British troops from the Thirteen Provinces of North
America; and, connectedly with this article, a stipulation for the
security of the friends of the British government. The third article
might be a stipulation that the respective parties, during the continu-
ance of the truce, should not either directly or indirectly give assistance
to the enemies of each other.

Clause ii. Articles of Intercourse and Pacification. Under this
clause some arrangements might be settled for establishing a free and
mutual intercourse, civil and commercial, between Great Britain and
the aforesaid Provinces of North America.

Clause hi. Suspension of Certain Acts of Parliament. By this
clause a free commionication may be kept open between the two coun-
tries, during the negotiation for peace, without stumbling against any
claim of rights which might draw into contest the question of de-
pendence or independence.

Clause iv. The Ratification by Parliament. The object of this
clause is to consolidate peace and conciHation, step by step, as the
negotiation may proceed, and to prevent, as far as possible, any return
of war, after the first declaration of a truce. By the operation of this
clause, a temporary truce may be converted into a perpetual and
permanent peace.

Clause v. A Temporary Act. This clause, creating a temporary
act for a specific piorpose of negotiation in view, is taken from the
Act of 1778.

io8 The Works of [1782

sensible of the value of the world's good opinion, to
forfeit it all by such perfidy. The Congress will
never instruct their Commissioners to obtain a peace
on such ignominious terms; and though there can
be but few things in which I should venture to dis-
obey their orders, yet if it were possible for them
to give me such an order as this I should certainly
refuse to act ; I should instantly renounce their com-
mission, and banish myself forever from so infamous
a country.

We are a little ambitious too of your esteem, and
as I think we have acquired some share of it by oiu*
manner of making war with you, I trust we shall not
hazard the loss of it by consenting meanly to a dis-
honorable peace.

Lord North was wise in demanding of you some
authorized acknowledgment of the proposition from
authorized persons. He justly thought it too im-
probable to be relied on, so as to lay it before the
Privy Council. You can now inform him that the
whole has been a mistake, and that no such proposi-
tion as that of a separate peace has been, is, or is
ever likely to be made by me, and I believe by
no other authorized person whatever in behalf of
America. You may further, if you please, inform
his lordship that Mr. Adams, Mr. Laurens, Mr. Jay,
and myself have long since been empowered, by a
special commission, to treat of peace whenever a
negotiation shall be opened for that purpose; but it
must always be understood that this is to be in con-
jtmction with our allies, conformably to the solemn
treaties made with them.

1782] Benjamin Franklin 109

You have, my dear friend, a strong desire to pro-
mote peace, and it is a most laudable and virtuous
desire. Permit me, then, to wish that you would, in
order to succeed as a mediator, avoid such invidious
expressions as may have an effect in preventing
your purpose. You tell me that no stipulation for
our independence must be in the treaty, because you
"verily believe so deep is the jealousy between
England and France, that England would fight for
a straw to the last man and the last shilling rather
than be dictated to by France." And again, that
"the nation would proceed to every extremity rather
than be brought to a formal recognition of indepen-
dence at the haughty command of France." My dear
sir, if every proposition of terms of peace that may be
made by one of the parties at war, is to be called
and considered by the other as dictating, and a
haughty command, and for that reason rejected, with
a resolution of fighting to the last man rather than
agree to it, you see that in such case no treaty of
peace is possible.

In fact, we began the war for independence on
your government, which we found tyrannical, and
this before France had any thing to do with our
affairs. The article in our treaty whereby the ' ' two
parties engage that neither of them shall conclude
either truce or peace with Great Britain without the
formal consent of the other first obtained, and
mutually engage not to lay down their arms until the
independence of the United States shall have been
tacitly assured by the treaty or treaties that shall
terminate the war," was an article inserted at our

no The Works of [1782

instance, being in our favor. And you see, by the
article itself, that your great difficulty may be easily
got over, as a formal acknowledgment of our inde-
pendence is not made necessary. But we hope by
God's help to enjoy it, and I suppose we shall fight
for it as long as we are able.

I do not make any remarks upon the other propo-
sitions, because I think that, unless they were made
by authority, the discussion of them is imnecessary,
and may be inconvenient. The supposition of our
being disposed to make a separate peace I could not
be silent upon, as it materially affected owe reputa-
tion and its essential interests. If I have been a
little warm on that offensive point, reflect on your
repeatedly urging it, and endeavor to excuse me.
Whatever may be the fate of our poor countries, let
you and me die as we have lived, in peace with each
other.

Assuredly I continue, with great and sincere
esteem, my dear friend, yours most affectionately,

B. Franklin.

MXXI

TO JOHN JAY

Passy, is January, 1782.

Dear Sir: — Mr. Grand tells me that he hears
from Madrid you are uneasy at my long silence. I
have had much vexation and perplexity lately with
the affair of the goods in Holland; and I have so
many urgent correspondences to keep up that some

1782] Benjamin Franklin 11 1

of them at times necessarily suffer. I purpose writ-
ing fully to you next post. In the meantime I send
the enclosed for your meditation. The ill-timed
bills, as you justly term them, do us infinite preju-
dice; but we must not be discouraged. I am ever,
with the greatest esteem, etc.,

B. Franklin.*

MXXII

TO JOHN JAY

Passy, 19 January, 1782.

Dear Sir: — In mine of the 15th I mentioned my
intention of writing fully to you by this day's post.
But, understanding since that a courier will soon go
from Versailles, I rather choose that conveyance.

I received duly your letter of November 21st, but
it found me in a very perplexed situation. I had
great payments to make for the extravagant and
very inconvenient purchase in Holland, together
with large acceptances by Mr. Adams of bills drawn
on Mr. Laurens and himself, and I had no certainty
of providing the money. I had also a quarrel upon
my hands with Messrs. de Neufville and others,
owners of two vessels hired by Gillon to carry the
goods he had contracted to carry in his own ship.
I had worried this friendly and generous court with
often - repeated after - clap demands, occasioned by
these unadvised (as well as ill-advised) and, therefore,

I See Mr. Jay's answer in the Diplomatic Correspondence, Vol. VIII.,
P- 54.

112 The Works of [1782

unexpected drafts, and was ashamed to show my
face to the minister. In these circumstances, I
knew not what answer to make you. I could not
encourage you to expect the rehef desired; and,
having still some secret hope, I was im willing to
discourage you, and thereby occasion a protest of
bills, which possibly I might find means of enabling
you to pay. Thus I delayed writing perhaps too
long.

But, to this moment, I have obtained no assurance
of having it in my power to aid you, though no
endeavors on my part have been wanting. We have
been assisted with near twenty millions since the
beginning of last year, besides a fleet and army ; and
yet I am obliged to worry them with my solicita-
tions for more, which makes us appear insatiable.

This letter will not go before Tuesday. Perhaps
by that time I may be able to say explicitly. Yes or
No. I am very sensible of your unhappy situation,
and I believe you feel as much for me. You men-
tion my proposing to repay the sum you want in
America. I tried that last year. I drew a bill on
Congress for a considerable simi to be advanced me
here, and paid there in provisions for the French
troops. My bill was not honored.

I was in hopes the loan in Holland, if it succeeded,
being for ten millions, would have made us all easy.
It was long uncertain; it is now completed. But
unfortunately it has most of it been eaten up by
advances here. You see, by the letter of which I
sent you a copy, upon what terms I obtain another
million of it. That, if I get it, will enable me to pay

1782] Benjamin Franklin 113

the thirty thousand dollars you have borrowed ; for
we must not let your friend suffer. What I am to do
afterwards, God knows.

I am much surprised at the dilatory and reserved
conduct of your court. I know not to what amount
you have obtained aids from it; but if they are not
considerable, it were to be wished you had never
been sent there, as the slight they have put upon
our offered friendship is very disreputable to us, and,
of course, hurtful to our affairs elsewhere. I think
they are short-sighted, and do not look very far into
futurity, or they would seize with avidity so excel-
lent an opportunity of securing a neighbor's friend-
ship which may hereafter be of great consequence
to their American affairs.

If I were in Congress, I should advise your being
instructed to thank them for past favors, and take
your leave. As I am situated, I do not presume to
give you such advice, nor could you take it if I
should. But I conceive there would be nothing
amiss in your mentioning in a short memoir the
length of time elapsed since the date of the secret
article, and since your arrival, to urge their deter-
mination upon it, and pressing them to give you an
exphcit, definite, immediate answer, whether they
would enter into treaty with us or not ; and in case of
refusal, solicit your recall, that you may not con-
tinue from year to year at a great expense in a con-
stant state of uncertainty with regard to so important
a matter. I do not see how they can decently re-
fuse such an answer. But their silence, after the
demand made, should in my opinion be understood

114 The Works of [1782

as a refusal, and we should act accordingly, I think
I see a very good use that might be made of it,
which I will not venture to explain in this letter.

I know not how the account of your salary stands,
but I would have you draw upon me for a quarter
at present, which shall be paid; and it will be a
great pleasure to me if I shall be able to pay up all
your arrears.

Mr. Laurens, being now at liberty, perhaps may
soon come here and be ready to join us, if there
should be any negotiations for peace. In England
they are mad for a separate one with us, that they
may more effectually take revenge on France and
Spain. I have had several overtures hinted to me
lately from different quarters, but I am deaf. The
thing is impossible. We can never agree to desert
our first and our faithful friend on any consideration
whatever. We should become infamous by such
abominable baseness. With great and sincere es-
teem, I am ever, etc.,

B. Franklin.

MXXIII

TO WILLIAM CARMICHAEL

Passy, 23 January, 1782.

Dear Sir:— It is a long time since I have written
to you; but I am not the less sensible of your oblig-
ing attention in writing frequently to me. I have
now before me your several favors of September
15th, October 23d, November 8th, and January nth.
Your communications are always agreeable, and I

1782] Benjamin Franklin 115

beg you would continue them, and continue also to
excuse the want of punctuality in correspondence
of an old man, who has been opprest with too much
business. The arrival of Mr. Barclay, appointed
Consul-General, will ease me of a good deal, and I
hope for the future to be more exact.

Mr. Boyeted was so obliging as to call on me with
one of your letters, and has since sent me the books,
which afford me a good deal of information. I
thank you very much for them. I expect soon
some copies of a new volume of the Transactions of
your American Society, of which I shall request M.
de Campomanes to accept one. Be pleased to pre-
sent my respects to him. I see that he will be a
great benefactor to his country.

With regard to money matters, I am continually
embarrassed by some means or other with fresh
difficulties. I was told that no more random bills
would be drawn after the beginning of April last,
and I flattered myself with being soon at ease by
paying off those issued before ; but as they continue
coming, drawn not only on Mr. Jay, but on Mr.
Adams, Mr. Laurens, and myself, I begin to suspect
that the drawing continues, and that the bills are
antedated. It is impossible for me to go on with de-
mands after demands. I was never advised of the
amount of the drafts, either upon myself or upon
any of the other ministers. The drafts themselves
that are directed to me are indeed a justification of
my paying them ; but I never had any orders to pay
those drawn on others, nor have I ever received a
syllable of approbation for having done so. Thus I

ii6 The Works of [1782

stand charged with vast sums which I have dis-
bursed for the pubUc service without authority. In
my present situation I cannot encourage Mr. Jay
to accept any more bills. I think, too, all things
considered, that if some of them must go back pro-
tested, it had better be from either France or Hol-
land. But I will do my best if possible to prevent it.
I wish with you that we had contented ourselves
with such aids as this kind and generous nation
could afford us, and never sought to entangle our-
selves with obligations to any others.

In writing to Mr. Jay I forgot to mention how
much I was obliged by his permitting me to read his
despatches sent by Major Franks. They are very
full and satisfactory. I wonder at what you have
heard that the Congress had for eight months no
letters from Mr. Adams, as I think him the most
diligent of all correspondents, having seen in the
votes of Congress mention made of the dates of let-
ters received from him, by which it seemed that he
had written almost every day, and sometimes twice
a day. My great fault is writing too seldom; I
should write oftener (and should be happy), if I had
nothing else to do.

I wrote to Mr. Jay on the 19th that I hoped,
before the following Tuesday, to be able to say
whether I should or should not have it again in my
power to aid him. I am still in the dark, but I shall
pay your draft as well as his for a quarter of your
salaries. I wish each of you would state an accoimt
and send it to me of what has become due since the
commencement and what you have received; and if

1782] Benjamin Franklin 117

I can procure the means I will pay the balances ; but
it is necessary to write to Congress for a direct pro-
vision hereafter.

You do my little scribblings too much honor in
proposing to print them; but they are at your dis-
position, except the letter to the Academy of which
having several English pirns in it, cannot be trans-
lated, and besides has too much grossierte to be
borne by the polite readers of these nations. If you
should print any of them you will conceal my name.'

I see advised here, Spanish ink of a fine black for
writing. From this one would imagine that Spanish
ink had obtained a character for blackness. If there
is any of it to be had at Madrid, I wish you would
use it in writing your letters ; for my eyes not being
very good, when the ink and paper are so nearly of
a color I find it difficult to read them.

^ The communication here referred to was a satire upon the learned
societies of Franklin's time, and the idle questions upon which they
were wont to deliberate.

The letter commences by reciting one of these questions which had
been propounded by the Brvissels Academy, and he makes it the pre-
text for suggesting to them another question, quite absurd in itself,
but which he makes still more absurd by discussing it with the gravity
of a schoolman.

The piu-pose of Franklin's satire is the same as that which the au-
thor of Hudibras had in ridiculing the deliberations of the Royal
Society of London over the question propounded by Charles I.: "If
you put a shrimp into a vessel full of water, why does the water not
overflow?"

It is doing Butler's poem no injustice, however, to say that Frank-
lin's satire, though open unfortunately to the criticism which he makes
of it himself in the text, of ''Grossibrte,'" was in no respect inferior in
wit and effectiveness. As it was written for the amusement of one or
two of his scientific friends, and as he not only never gave it to the
press, but distinctly forbade its being printed with his name, it is
necessarily exckided from these pages. — Editor.

ii8 The Works of [1782

Jan. 25th. Since writing the above the Marquis
de Lafayette, is arrived, to my great joy, as I am
persuaded he will be very useful to our affairs. I
forward some letters for Mr. Jay.

Robert R. Livingston is appointed Secretary of
Foreign Affairs and General Lincoln Secretary of
War. Mr. Morris conducts the finances to general
satisfaction and the public credit is reviving.

I this day met Mr. Cases at Mr. Grand's, where
we dined, and he gave me a letter from you. I
shall with pleasure cultivate his acquaintance, for
which I am obliged to you.

With great esteem, I am ever, dear sir, etc.,

B. Franklin.

Please to give the enclosed papers to Mr. Jay,
which should have gone to him with my last.

MXXIV

FROM DAVID HARTLEY

London, 24 January, 1782,

My Dear Sir: — I received yours of the 15th in-
stant this day. I must take the earliest opportunity
of setting you right in one mistake which runs
through your whole letter, and which to you, under
that mistake, must be a very delicate point. You
seem to apprehend that America has been stated,
in the proposition to Lord North, as "disposed to
enter into a separate treaty with Great Britain";
but you meet the condition, viz., in the words im-

1782] Benjamin Franklin 119

mediately following, "and that their allies were dis-
posed to consent to it.'' There cannot possibly be any
supposition of treachery to allies in any proposition
to which they may consent. A separate treaty, with
the consent of the allies of America, was the proposi-
tion communicated to me by Mr. Alexander, and
which I laid before the minister, and which I re-
ported back again to Mr. Alexander in writing, when
I showed him the paper entitled "Conciliatory Pro-
positions," which I took care to reduce to writing,
with a view of avoiding mistakes ; therefore I have not
misunderstood Mr. Alexander. I have since seen Mr.
Alexander many times, and he has always stated
one and the same proposition, viz., that America
was disposed to enter into a separate treaty, because
their allies were disposed to consent that they should;
therefore there cannot exist a suspicion of treachery.
It occurred to me once, while I was writing, to bar
against that misconstruction; but having specified
the consent of the allies of America in the same sen-
tence, I could not conceive such a misconstruction
to have been possible.

You have mistaken another point greatly. You
say "a truce for ten years." There is not in the bill
any such disposition or thought; on the contrary, it
is specified in the enclosed paper that it is kept indefi-
nite, for the sole purpose of avoiding the suspicion
which you have suggested. The truce may be for
twenty, or fifty, or one hundred years ; in my opinion,
the longer the better. But in any case, what I mean
now to state is the indefinite term of the bill. The
articles of intercourse are only proposed for ten years

I20 The Works of [1782

certain, just to strew the way with inviting and con-
ciliatory facilities, in the hope that a little time given for
cooling would confirm a perpetual peace . If I were per-
mitted to be the mediator, I should certainly propose
the truce for twenty years ; but if no more than ten
years could be obtained, I would certainly not refuse
such a ground of pacification and treaty. I refer you
to several of my letters, two or three years ago, for
the justification of my sentiments on that head.

Another point: look at all my letters since 1778,
and see if I have at any time suggested any breach of
treaty or of honor ; on the contrary, I think a faithless
nation, if exterminated, would not deserve the pity
of mankind. I speak of all I know of the treaty
between America and France, and what I think
reasonable upon the case itself. If America is fur-
ther bound than we know of, they must abide by it.
I speak to the apparent and public foundation of the
treaty article second, with the provision of tacitly,
from article eighth ; and now I refer you to my let-
ter to you, as long ago as April 10, 1779 : "If beyond
this essential and directed end, and upon grounds
totally unconnected with that alliance, not upon
motives of magnanimity for the relief of an innocent
people, but from distinct and unconnected motives
of private European sentiments, America should be
dragged into the consequence of a general European
war, she may apply to France the apostrophe of the
poet, speaking in the person of Helen to Paris:

" ' Non hoc polHcitus tuae.* "
You see, therefore, that our sentiments have been

1782] Benjamin Franklin 121

uniform, and, as I think, reasonable, because I still
remain in those sentiments.

Suppose, for instance (and you may call it the
case of a straw, if you please) , that Great Britain and
France should continue the war for ten years, on the
point of a commissary at Dunkirk, ay or no. Would
it be reasonable, or a casus fcsderis, that America
should be precluded from a separate treaty for ten
years, and therefore involved in the consequential
war, after the essential and direct ends of the treaty
of February 6, 1778, were accomplished? As far as
my judgment goes, upon the knowledge of such facts
as are public, I should think it was neither reasonable
nor a casus foederis. This is the breviate of the argu-
ment, in which there is no thought or suggestion of
any breach of faith or honor. I did conclude that
France was disposed to give their consent, because
Mr. Alexander informed me so, and because I thought
it reasonable that France should consent, and reason-
able that America should enjoy the benefit of that
consent. I transmitted it to Lord North, as a
proposition temperate and pacific on the part of
America, and consented to by their allies, and on no
other ground did I transmit or propose it. All that
your letter tells me is, "that America will not break
with her allies, and that her Commissioners will not
entertain such a thought" ; but give me leave to add
that they, as honest men, cannot disdain such a
thought more than I do ; every honest man ought to
disdain the office, or the thought, of proposing a
breach of faith to them. I have often told you that
such an office or such a thought shall never be mine.

122 The Works of [1782

But you have not told me that France would not
be disposed to consent to a separate treaty of peace
for that ally, whose peace was the original declared
object of the alliance, in the case supposed, viz., of
certain supposed or real punctilios between two
proud and belligerent nations, which might possibly
involve America for years in a war totally uncon-
nected with the objects of the alliance. Besides, if
any rubs should occur in the road to a general peace,
France is too proud a nation to say that, beyond the
policy of contributing to the separation of America
from Great Britain in any contest of rivalship,they
cannot meet their rivals in war, without the assist-
ance of America. I cannot conceive that the minis-
ter of a great belligerent nation could entertain such
a thought, as affecting their own sense of honor, or
be so imreasonable to their allies as to withhold con-
sent to their peace, when the essential and direct ends
of the alliance were satisfied. Observe, I do not
contend against a general peace; on the contrary, I
mean to recommend the most prudent means for
producing it. But, as an anxious lover of peace, I
feel terrors which dismay me, when I consider the
dangers which may obstruct a general peace, arising
from the pride and prejudices of nations, which are
not to be controlled in their heat by argimients of
reason or philosophy.

Can any man in reason and philosophy tell me
why any two nations in the world are called natural
enemies, as if it were the ordinance of God and
nature ? I fear it is too deeply engraved in the pas-
sions of man ; and for that reason I would elude and

1782] Benjamin Franklin 123

evade the contest with such passions. I would
strew the road to peace with flowers, and not with
thorns. Haughty, and dictating, and commands are
no words of mine; I abhor them, and I fear them.
I would elude their force by gentle means, and step
by step. In article eighth there are the following
words: "By the treaty or treaties that shall ter-
minate the war." Let us have one treaty begim,
and I think the rest would follow. I fear, when
contending passions are raised, lest we should lose
all by grasping at too much,

January 2$th. I have just seen Mr. Alexander,
and have talked the matter over with him. I send
you a copy of his sentiments upon it, which, for the
sake of avoiding further mistakes, he committed to
paper, and which, I think, justify me in saying that
I understood from him that France was disposed to
give their consent, as he explained it to me, and as I
explained it to the minister. ' He did not say, nor

^ The following is Mr. Alexander's explanatory note to Mr. Hartley:
"As I had not the opporttinity of seeing your correspondence at this
time, I was unable to prevent the misunderstanding that seems to
have arisen. There is no proposition of which I am more convinced
than that 'nothing can be done without the concturence of allies.'
But, as the chief obstruction towards an accommodation seemed to me
to lie in the personal character of some, who have great weight in this
matter, and as the object of the war (the independence of America)
seems, in the opinion of all men, to be secured, my own opinion was,
and still is, that there was so much wisdom and moderation where
prejudice prevents us from seeing it, that, provided the ends of the
war are accomplished to the satisfaction of all parties, they will be
very ready to let us out of it in the most gentle manner, by consent-
ing equally that the business shall go on in one, two, or three separate
deeds, as shall be most palatable here; and to doubt that oitr friends
are desirous of finishing the contest, with the approbation of their
allies, is to doubt their understanding."

124 The Works of [1782

did I understand him to say, that he was authorized
by the French ministry, or by any one else, to de-
clare that France had bound herself to consent, or
that any such requisition had been made to her ; but
that it was his opinion that France would consent,
and that I might proceed upon that presumption,
so far as to recommend overtures of negotiation.
Accordingly, the phrase of my letter to you is, that
he explained to me that their allies were disposed to
consent. You see what his opinion is on this day;
and, as you have not told me that France will not
consent, the reasonable probability which still re-
mains with me, for the hopes of opening an amicable
treaty, remains as it did.

I could not delay saying thus, by the very first
mail, upon a point equally delicate to me as well as
to yourself. My dear friend, I beg of you not to
think, either that you can be considered as capable
of entertaining, or that I should be capable of sug-
gesting, any unworthy or dishonorable propositions.
If there has been any misunderstanding, it is now
cleared up; and the ground for negotiation remains
open as before. I therefore still entertain my hopes.
I am ever your affectionate D. Hartley.

MXXV

TO JOHN BARRY ^

Passy, 24 January, 1782.

Sir: — I received your letter of the 17th with
pleasure as it informed me of your safe arrival at

^ Captain in the American navy, having command of the Alliance
frigate at L'Orient. He had lately arrived from America; and in his

1782] Benjamin Franklin 125

Fort Louis. I shall see the Marquis de Lafayette
to-day, and we will try what can be done towards
getting you some French sailors; but I doubt they
are too much wanted to be spared to us. You will
find, however, a number of Americans at L'Orient,
who have lately escaped, or been exchanged, from
the prisons of England. Your desire of redeeming
more of them is noble, and I heartily wish you suc-
cess in it. Mr. Barclay, the consul, to whom you
should apply in case of wanting any thing for your
ship, is now in Holland; but I expect him in a few
days. Let me know if, when you retiun to Amer-
ica, you can take any of the Congress goods, which
he will have to send. With great esteem, I have the
honor to be, sir, etc.,

B. Franklin.

MXXVI

TO ROBERT MORRIS

Passy, 28 January, 1782.

Sir: — I wrote a few lines to you this morning,
and understanding that the courier is not yet gone
off for Brest, I have time to acquaint you that our
good friend the Marquis, whom I have just now seen,
has been, at my request, with all the ministers, spent
an hour with each of them, pressing with all the
arguments possible a further supply of money for
the ensuing campaign ; and being better acquainted
with facts, he was able to speak with greater weight

vessel the Marquis de Lafayette, Viscount de Noailles, General Dupor-
tail, and several other French officers came as passengers.

126 The Works of [1782

than I could possibly do. He finds that the general
determination had been not to furnish any more
money; and though he thinks he has so far pre-
vailed as that the matter may be reconsidered and
possibly some may be obtained, which, however, is
far from being certain, he does not imagine it will be
much, and that therefore it will be best for us to act
as if none were to be expected. I shall see M. de
Vergennes to-morrow, and shall write you further by
the first opportunity.

I will just add one short reflection, that wrong
estimates are often made of a friend's abilities; and
borrowers are apt to say : Help me with such a sum,
't is to a man of your wealth a trifle. They are
ignorant of the demands constantly made upon him
by the course of the expense he is necessarily en-
gaged in, which may be equal to and perhaps exceed
his incomes. And it is grating to be pressed for
loans in a manner that oblige a man either to seem
unkind by refusing, or to disclose his own inabilities.
Let us be assured that if we do not obtain another
loan it is [not?] for want of good-will to us.

With great regard, I have the honor to be, etc.,

B. Franklin.

Mxxvn

TO ROBERT R. LIVINGSTON

Passy, 28 January, 1782.

Sir: — I received, at the same time, your several
letters of October 20th, 24th, and November 26th,

1782] Benjamin Franklin 127

which I purpose to answer fully by the return of the
Alliance. Having just had a very short notice of
the departure of this ship, I can only at present men-
tion the great pleasure your appointment gives me,
and my intention of corresponding with you regu-
larly and frequently, as you desire. The informa-
tion contained in your letter is full and clear; I
shall endeavor that mine, of the state of affairs here,
may be as satisfactory. With great esteem, etc.,

B. Franklin.

P. S. — Having just learned that the courier is not
gone, I have time to enclose two letters from Hol-
land, by which you will see something of the state of
affairs in that country. Be pleased to present my
dutiful respects to Congress, and assure them of my
faithful services.

Mxxvni

TO GUSTAVUS CONYNGHAM

Passy, 6 February, 1782.

Sir: — I am to acknowledge the receipt of two
letters from you since you came to Nantes. In the
first you desired a copy of your original commission.
I have caused search to be made for it, but can find
no trace of it; as, at the time it was given to you, the
Commissioners kept no minutes of their proceed-
ings, and it is but a few days since I learned from
Dr. Bancroft that it was taken from you at Dun-
kirk, and sent up with other papers to the Count de
Vergennes. The first time I go to Versailles I will

128 The Works of [1782

inquire for it. If it is lost, I will send you a cer-
tificate that it did exist, though at present not to be
found.

In your second letter you desire to know what

money Mr. D has charged or advanced to you.

I never was able to obtain from him a regular ac-
count of the moneys put into his hands for the relief
of prisoners in England, but I think he mentions in
one of his letters he paid fifty pounds for you. Prob-
ably this may not be true; for he is the greatest
villain I ever met with, having the last winter drawn
on me for four hundred and ninety -five pounds for
the support of American prisoners, and applied but
thirty pounds to their use. However, he can have
no right to demand repayment from you, having
received the money from me. With very great
esteem and best wishes for your prosperity, I have
the honor to be, etc.,

B. Franklin.

MXXIX

TO JOHN BARRY

Passy, 10 February, 1782.

Sir: — I have been honored by yours of the 31st
past, and am glad to find you are willing to take
over some of the public goods. I should not desire
it of you, if certain circumstances unforeseen had
not rendered it necessary. The goods are for the
use of our troops and marine, and were collected at
Brest, with an intention of sending them in certain
transports, which were prepared for that purpose

1782] Benjamin Franklin 129

by the government. The loss of a niimber of trans-
ports taken by Kempenfeld's squadron, which were
carrying stores for the king's fleet and army, making
it necessary to replace those stores and forward them
immediately, it has been found that there is no room
for ours, and that sufficient new transports cannot
readily be obtained.

It has therefore been proposed to me to put into
your ship what you can well receive, and to get
freight if I can for the rest, to go tinder your convoy.
Mr. Barclay, who is acquainted with such business,
is not yet returned, but I expect him daily. In the
meantime I wish you would proceed to Brest im-
mediately, where you will find orders given to the
commissary to deliver so much of the Congress stores
to you as you shall think fit to receive. My de-
spatches for America shall also meet you there ; and,
as the quantity of goods may possibly render your
ship less fit for sailing or fighting, it would perhaps
be well if you concluded to sail with the king's ships
which convoy the transports, and you will probably
depart by the middle of March. Though you have
not, as you observe, any orders for this operation, I
am persuaded that its utility and necessity, together
with this letter, will be deemed a full justification.
Endeavors are using to procure freight for the rest,
to go under the same convoy, but perhaps it may
not be possible to do it in time. If you can engage
any from L' Orient, it will be doing great service.
The goods in all will make about one thousand tons.
With great esteem, I have the honor to be, etc.,

B. Franklin.

VOL. IX. — O.

I30 The Works of [1782

MXXX

TO JOHN ADAMS

Passy, 12 February, 1782.

Sir: — I received the honor of yours dated the 7th
inst., acquainting me with the presentation of sev-
eral more bills drawn on Mr. Laurens. I think you
will do well to accept them, and I shall endeavor to
enable you to pay them. I should be glad to see a
complete list of those you have already accepted.
Perhaps from the series of numbers and the de-
ficiencies one may be able to divine the sum that has
been issued, of which we have never been informed,
as we ought to have been. Ignorance of this has
subjected me to the unpleasant task of making re-
peated demands, which displease our friends by
seeming to have no end. The same is the case with
the bills on Mr. Jay and on myself. This has among
other things made me quite sick of my Gibeonite
office — that of drawing water for the whole congre-
gation of Israel. But I am happy to learn from
our Minister of Finance that, after the end of March
next, no further drafts shall be made on me, or
trouble given me by drafts of others.

The Duke de Vauguyon must be with you before
this time. I am impatient to hear the result of your
States on the demand you have made of a categoric
answer, etc. I think with you that it may be wrong
to interrupt or perplex their deliberations by asking
aids during the present critical situation of affairs.

I understood that the goods had all been deliv-
ered to Mr. Barclay, and I punctually paid all the

1782] Benjamin Franklin 131

bills. That gentleman now writes me that those piir-
chased of Gillon are detained on pretence of his debts.
These new demands were never mentioned to me be-
fore. It has been and will be a villainous affair from
beginning to end. Etc. B. Franklin.

MXXXI

TO MR. BARCLAY

Passy, 12 February, 1782.

Sir: — I received duly yours of the 3d inst, and I
am enraged to find that after I had been informed
the goods were delivered to you, and had in conse-
quence paid punctually all the bills, Messrs. de Neuf-
ville should attempt to stop those bought of Gillon.
These new demands have been artfully kept out of
sight till now. There is more roguery, it seems, in
that country than I imagined. Neither Colonel
Laurens nor Captain Jackson left with me the con-
tract made with Gillon; but the bills of exchange
drawn in his favor by Jackson, and accepted and
paid by me, are proofs of the goods having been
paid for, as we had no other concern with Gillon's
affairs. The value is near ;^io,ooo sterling.

I know not what to say at present with regard to
your proposition of my putting into your hands
150,000 livres at once. You give indeed a good
reason for it, so far as relates to yourself, viz. : "that
you are really afraid that, from my situation and
from the manner I am drawn upon from America,
my embarrassments in money matters may in-
crease." You will allow that it is natural for me to

132 The Works of [1782

have for the same reasons the same apprehensions,
and to endeavor to avoid these embarrassments
as much as possible by not complying with your
request, more especially as I find by Mr. Morris' last
letters that he imagines a sum in my disposition
vastly greater than the fact, in consequence of which
he has already given me orders far beyond my abil-
ities to comply with. I submit it therefore to your
consideration whether we had not better store those
goods in Holland at present, acquaint him with their
situation, and request him to send vessels for them,
rather than put ourselves to the inconvenience of
buying ships, as you propose to carry them, which
ships we may not be able to pay for. And, consider-
ing the quantities gone and going from this country,
these goods will probably not be so much wanted, as
that the delay will be greater prejudice to our affairs
than my protesting Congress bills would occasion.
In a few days I shall be able to write to you more
expHcitly on this head; in the meantime I could
wish you not to engage in the purchase of those
ships, though you may be assured that I shall do all
that I can find by any means in my power to aid you
in your operations. With much esteem, I have the
honor to be, sir, etc., B. Franklin.

MXXXII

FROM ROBERT R. LIVINGSTON

Philadelphia, 13 February, 1782.

Dear Sir: We have been extremely alarmed at
some communications which the minister of France

1782] Benjamin Franklin 133

made me from his last letters. They look extremely
as if the Count de Vergennes imagined that neither
Spain nor Holland was anxious for our success.
They discourage the idea of a loan from them, or
even from France. Our letters from Holland con-
firm the conjectures, so far as they relate to that
state. Mr. Adams seems almost to despair of doing
anything with respect to an alliance or loan, and
from Mr. Jay we have heard nothing in a very long
time, and are ignorant of any steps he may have
taken since the appointment of M. del Campo to
treat with him.

These mortifying disappointments oblige us,
though reluctantly, to call upon France for further
assistance. Your solicitations will be infinitely use-
ful to your country, if they procure for it what I will
venture to pronounce essential to their safety. In
this spirit, the instruction, which I do myself the
honor to enclose, has passed Congress, and a second
resolution, which I also enclose, which leads to such
information as will enable you to convince the court
of France that their navy can nowhere be more
effectually employed to distress the common enemy
than in America. I own this consideration is a great
relief to my feelings, when we make these importun-
ate demands for money; and I hope it will enable
you to press them with some degree of dignity.

That France can aid us is not to be doubted, for
it is certain she never carried on a war that dis-
tressed her finances less. She has no expensive sub-
sidies to pay ; her money is expended either at home
or in a country from whence it returns. Her army

134 The Works of [1782

is not greatly increased, and her commerce under
the protection of her fleets enjoys a security that it
seldom has experienced before. I would not, how-
ever, have you suppose that this is the language I
hold here. I know too well the necessity of making
every exertion which in our present impoverished
situation we are capable of; and I neglect no means
which my present station puts it in my power to
call forth.

Congress have taken every wise measure for that
purpose, and I firmly persuade myself that we shall
be able to form the most vigorous co-operation with
such force as his Majesty may please to send out. I
am confident that the peace must be made in Amer-
ica. Every blow here is fatal to the grand object of
the present war ; to the hopes, to the wishes, and to
the pride of Great Britain. Other conquests she
expects to have restored upon a peace ; what is lost
here, she knows to be lost for ever.

The daily complaints that we receive from seamen
confined in England concur with humanity and the
national honor to render some expedient for their
relief necessary. I need not, I am persuaded, recom-
mend this to your particular care. We have not yet
obtained, at least as far as I can learn, a compensa-
tion for the prisoners taken by Paul Jones and re-
turned to England. Is it impossible, either to settle
a cartel in Europe, or to have the Americans con-
fined there sent to New York for exchange? The
last proposition is so much in favor of England,
that it would probably be acceded to ; and yet, such
is the distress of the people who have been long

1782] Benjamin Franklin 135

confined, that it would be desirable to have the offer
made. I am just now applied to by a Mrs. Sim-
monds, whose husband is the mate of a vessel, and
has been two years confined in Mill Prison ; it woxild
be an act of charity to attempt to procure his re-
lease. You will do me the favor to collect and
transmit a list of the nimibers confined in England,
and, as far as possible, for the satisfaction of their
friends, of the names.

We have not a word of intelligence to communi-
cate, unless it be some little disturbances in the
country which has been distinguished by the names
of New Hampshire Grants, and Vermont, and which
it may be proper to mention to you, since the facility
with which the British deceive themselves, and the
address with which they deceive others, may render
it a matter of moment in England, though in fact it
is of none in America. The bulk of the people of
that country are ''New England Presbyterian Whigs.''
Some of those, in possession of the powers of govern-
ment, have more address than principle. Finding
themselves exposed to inroads from Canada, they
have tampered with that government, and pretended
to be willing to form a treaty of neutrality with
them during the war, and to return to the obedience
of Britain on a peace. This has had the effect they
intended, and in some measure defeated an expedi-
tion which the enemy made last year, and retained
their main body in inaction at Ticonderoga, while
the parties they sent to the westward were beaten
and dispersed by our militia. The secret has been
discovered, is disavowed by the people, and such

136 The Works of [1782

measures are now taken that, by the time the king
of Great Britain and his council (before whom the
propositions now He) have formed a plan in conse-
quence of them, they will be made the means of
drawing them into new difficulties.

I presume that you keep up a constant corre-
spondence with Mr. Jay and Mr. Adams, and assist
them with your information and advice. I must
beg the favor of you to transmit them this intelli-
gence, that they may be prepared to meet any
assertions of the enemy on that head. I take leave
to repeat to you my desire to have the papers and
political publications sent regularly to this office. I
have the honor to be, etc.,

Robert R. Livingston.

MXXXIII

TO DAVID HARTLEY

Passy, 16 February, 1782.

Dear Sir: — I received your favor of the 24th past.
You have taken pains to rectify a mistake of mine,
relating to the aim of your letters. I accept kindly
your replication, and I hope you will excuse my
error, when you reflect that I knew of no consent
given by France to our treating separately of peace,
and that there have been mixed in some of your
conversations and letters various reasonings to show
that, if France should require something of us that
was unreasonable, we then should not be obliged by
our treaty to join with her in continuing the war.

1782] Benjamin Franklin 137

As there had never been such requisition, what could
I think of such discourses ? I thought, as I suppose
an honest woman would think if a gallant should
entertain her with suppositions of cases in which
infidelity to her husband would be justifiable. Would
not she naturally imagine, seeing no other founda-
tion or motive for such conversation, that, if he could
once get her to admit the general principle, his in-
tended next step would be to persuade her that such
a case actually existed? Thus, knowing your dis-
like of France, and your strong desire of recovering
America to England, I was impressed with the idea
that such an infidelity on our part would not be dis-
agreeable to you; and that you were therefore aim-
ing to lessen in my mind the horror I conceived at the
idea of it. But we will finish here by mutually
agreeing that neither you were capable of proposing
nor I of acting on, such principles.

I cannot, however, forbear endeavoring to give a
little possible utility to this letter, by saying some-
thing on your case of Dunkirk. You do not see why
two nations should be deemed natural enemies to
each other. Nor do I, unless one or both of them
are naturally mischievous and insolent. But I can
see how enmities long continued, even during a
peace tend to shorten that peace, and to rekindle a
war; and this is, when either party, having an ad-
vantage in war, shall exact conditions in the treaty of
peace that are goading and constantly mortifying to
the other. I take this to be the case of your "com-
missioner at Dunkirk." What would be your feel-
ings, if France should take and hold possession of

138 The Works of [1782

Portsmouth, or Spain of Plymouth, after a peace, as
you formerly held Calais, and now hold Gibraltar?
Or, on restoring your ports, should insist on having
an insolent commissioner stationed there, to forbid
your placing one stone upon another by way of for-
tification? You would probably not be very easy
under such a stipulation. If therefore you desire a
peace that may be firm and durable, think no more
of such extravagant demands. It is not necessary
to give my opinion further on that point, yet I may
add frankly, as this is merely private conversation
between you and me, that I do think a faithful ally,
especially when under obligations for such great and
generous assistance as we have received, should fight
as long as he is able, to prevent, as far as his con-
tinuing to figl-t may prevent, his friends being com-
pelled again to suffer such an insult.

My dear friend, the true pains you are taking to
restore peace, whatever may be the success, entitle
you to the esteem of all good men. If your minis-
ters really desire peace, me thinks they would do well
to empower some person to make propositions for
that purpose. One or other of the parties at war
must take the first step. To do this belongs prop-
erly to the wisest. America, being a novice in such
affairs, has no pretence to that character; and, in-
deed, after the answer given by Lord Stormont
(when we proposed to him something relative to the
mutual treatment of prisoners with humanity), that
''the king's ministers receive no applications from rebels,
unless when they come to implore his Majesty's clem-
ency,'" it cannot be expected that we should hazard

1782] Benjamin Franklin 139

the exposing ourselves again to such insolence.^ All
I can say further at present is that in my opinion
your enemies do not aim at your destruction, and
that if you propose a treaty you will find them
reasonable in their demands, provided that on your
side they meet with the same good dispositions.

^ The reference here is to a correspondence between the American
Commissioners and Lord Stormont, the British Ambassador at the
Court of France, soon after Dr. Franklin arrived at Paris, as con-
tained in the following letters to Lord Stormont:

"Paris, 23 February, 1777.

"My Lord: — Captain Wickes, of the Reprisal frigate, belonging to
the United States of America, has now in his hands near one himdred
British seamen, prisoners. He desires to know whether an exchange
may be made with him for an equal number of American seamen, now
prisoners in England. We take the liberty of proposing this matter
to your lordship, and of requesting your opinion (if there be no im-
propriety in your giving it), whether such an exchange will probably
be agreed to by your covut.

"If your people cannot be soon exchanged here, they will be sent
to America. We have the honor to be, with great respect, your lord-
ship's most obedient, humble servants, "B. Franklin,

"S. Deane."
"Paris, 2 April, 1777.

"My Lord: — We did ourselves the honor of writing some time ago
to your lordship on the subject of exchanging prisoners. You did not
condescend to give us any answer, and therefore we expect none to
this. We, however, take the liberty of sending you copies of certain
depositions, which we shall transmit to Congress, whereby it will be
known to your court that the United States are not imacquainted
with the barbarous treatment their people receive, when they have
the misfortune of being your prisoners here in Evirope; and that, if
yotir conduct towards us is not altered, it is not tmlikely that severe
reprisals may be thought justifiable, from the necessity of putting some
check to such abominable practices.

"For the sake of humanity, it is to be wished that men would
endeavor to alleviate, as much as possible, the unavoidable miseries
attending a state of war. It has been said that, among the civilized
nations of Europe, the ancient horrors of that state are much dimin-
ished; but the compelling men by chains, stripes, and famine to fight
against their friends and relations, is a new mode of barbarity which
yotir nation alone had the honor of inventing ; and the sending Ameri-

I40 The Works of [1782

But do not dream of dividing us ; you will certainly
never be able to effect it. With great regard and
affection, I am ever, dear sir, your most obedient and
most humble servant, B. Franklin.

MXXXIV

FROM EDMUND BURKE ^

Passy, 28 February, 1782.

Dear Sir: — Your most obliging letter demanded
an early answer. It has not received the acknow-

can prisoners of war to Africa and Asia, remote from all probability
of exchange, and where they can scarce hope ever to hear from their
families, even if the unwholesomeness of the climate does not put a
speedy end to their lives, is a manner of treating captives that you can
justify by no other precedent of custom, except that of the black
savages of Guinea. We are your lordship's most obedient, humble
servants, "B. Franklin,

"S. Deane."

"Paris, 3 April, 1777.
"My Lord: — In answer to a letter, which concerns some of the
most material interests of humanity, and of the two nations. Great
Britain and the United States of America, now at war, we received the
enclosed indecent paper, as coming from your lordship, which we return
for your lordship's more mature consideration. " b_ Franklin,

"S. Deane."

The words of the paper sent by Lord Stormont, and referred to in
the above letter, were: "The king's ambassador receives no applica-
tions from rebels, unless they come to implore his Majesty's mercy."
— Editor.

^ This letter was written in answer to one from Dr. Franklin, re-
questing Mr. Burke to negotiate an exchange of Henry Laurens, then
in the Tower, for General Burgoyne. Mr. Laurens was at the time
under some misapprehension in supposing that Mr. Burke first ap-
plied to Dr. Franklin to effect such an exchange, and imagined that
Dr. Franklin had neglected him, whereas he took the most prompt
and efficient means in his power to procure Mr. Laurens' release. See
Henry Laiirens's letter, dated May 30, 1782, Diplomatic Correspond-
ence, Vol. II., p. 463.

1782] Benjamin Franklin 141

ledgment which was so justly due to it. But Provi-
dence has well supplied my deficiencies, and the
delay of the answer has made it much more satisfac-
tory than at the time of my receipt of your letter I
dared to promise myself it could be. I congratulate
you, as the friend of America — I trust, as not the
enemy of England; I am sure, as the friend of man-
kind,— on the resolution of the House of Commons,
carried by a majority of nineteen, at two o'clock
this morning, in a very full house. It was the dec-
laration of two hundred and thirty-four. I think it
was the opinion of the whole. I trust it will lead to
a speedy peace between the two branches of the
EngHsh nation, perhaps to general peace, and that
our happiness may be an introduction to that of the
world at large. I most sincerely congratulate you
on the event. I wish I could say that I had accom-
plished my commission. Difficulties remain. But as
Mr. Laurens is released from his confinement, and has
recovered his health tolerably, he may wait, I hope,
without a great deal of inconvenience, for the final
adjustment of his troublesome business. He is an ex-
ceedingly agreeable and honorable man. I am much
obliged to you for the honor of his acquaintance. He
speaks of you as I do, and is perfectly sensible of
your warm and friendly interposition in his favor. I
have the honor to be, with the highest possible esteem
and regard, dear sir, your most faithful and obedient
humble servant, Edmund Burke.

P. S. — General Burgoyne presents his best com-
pliments to you, with his thanks for your obliging
attentions towards him.

142 The Works of [1782

MXXXV

TO COUNT DE VERGENNES

Passy, 3 March, 1782.

Sir: — I received the letter your Excellency did
me the honor of writing to me, the 24th past, en-
closing an official paper on the part of the Danish
court, relating to the burning of some English ves-
sels on the coast of Norway by three American ships. ^
I shall not fail to transmit the same immediately to
the Congress, who will, I make no doubt, inquire
into the facts alleged, and do thereupon what shall
appear to be just and right, it being their constant
and earnest desire to avoid giving any offence to
neutral nations, as will appear by their instructions
to all armed vessels, of which I have the honor to
present a copy.

In the meantime, as it is natural to expect that
those who exact a rigorous observation of the laws
of nations should be themselves ready to show an
example of their own regard for those laws, where
the interest of others is concerned, I cannot but hope
the court of Denmark will at length attend to a
demand, long since made by me, but hitherto with-
out effect, that they would restore to the United
States the value of three vessels, amounting to fifty

J M. de Bloome, Danish Minister in France, had complained to the
Cotmt de Vergennes that three American vessels, all armed in Phila-
delphia, had seized and burned two English merchantmen on the
coast of Norway, and sunk them after plundering them and sending
away their crews. They had no sea papers or letters of marque from
Congress. Bloome asked the intervention of Count de Vergennes to
effect not only the punishment of the malefactors, but to obtain from
the United States an indemnification for the vessels and cargoes.

1782] Benjamin Franklin 143

thousand pounds sterling.' These vessels were fair
and good prizes, which had been made by our
ships of war, not on the coast of Denmark, but far
distant on the high seas, and were sent into Bergen
as into a port truly neutral, but there, contrary to
the laws of hospitality, as well as the other laws of
nations, they were forcibly wrested out of our hands
by the government of that place, and delivered back
to our enemies. The Congress have not lost sight
of this violence, but constantly expect justice from
the equity and wisdom of his Danish Majesty. I
am, with the greatest respect, etc.,

B. Franklin.

MXXXVI

TO HON. ROBERT MORRIS

Passy, 4 March, 1782.

Sir : — With this you will receive copies of my two
letters dated January 28th and another dated the
30th. Since which I have been continually in per-
plexity and uncertainty about our money affairs. I
obtained a sketch of the account mentioned in my
last. You will see by letters I enclose that I en-
deavored to correct it, and make it 2,216,000 livres
more in our favor, but without success. I pressed
to know whether we were to expect any pecuniary
aids this year or not; our friend, the Marquis, as-
sisted me much. The affair was some time in sus-
pense. At length the minister told me we should be

^ Vessels capttired by the squadron under Paul Jones. See Dr.
Franklin's letter to Covmt Bemstorff on this subject.

144 The Works of [1782

aided, but must not expect it to be in the same
proportion as last year. Friday last he was so good
as to inform me we should have six millions, paid
quarterly, of which 1,500,000 livres would be ready
for us at the end of this month. I shall now be able
to face the loan-office and other bills, and my accept-
ances in favor of Mr. Beaumarchais, and I will do
as much as I can out of the 6,000,000 towards ful-
filling your orders of paying and depositing money
in other hands. But when you observe that the
Dutch loan, which you conceive might be entire
with me and at your disposition, has suffered such
large deductions, you will not expect much; and
your hopes of twelve millions for the present year
falling short by one half (as far as appears at present)
you will arrange your affairs accordingly and prevail
on our people, if possible, to do more for themselves.
The supplies charged in the aperqu or sketch were
part of them sent in king's transports in May and
June last, and I understood the rest were to be for-
warded in the same way ; but the loss of a number
of transports taken, which required replacing, has
created a difficulty which I was but lately informed
of; and I have had notice to provide ships for our
goods, the king not having sufficient. Mr. Barclay
being in Holland, I wrote to Nantes and L'Orient,
but could obtain no freight there ; at the same time
I sent orders to Capt. Barry to go to Brest, where
the goods were assembled, and take in what he could.
He was gone on a cruise before my letters reached
him. On Friday I acquainted the Marquis de Cas-
tries that I could not obtain any vessels, and en-

1782] Benjamin Franklin 145

treated his assisting us, which he was kind enough to
promise, as far as he was able. We have about
1,000 ton to send, and he supposes the Alliance may
take 400 of it, in which case he will try to find place
for the rest.

Mr. Barclay, as I mentioned above, is still in Hol-
land, endeavoring to ship the goods unhappily pur-
chased there last year. The whole were at first
detained from us on pretence of damages due to the
owners of the ships left behind by Gillon, who, by
agreement, should have taken them under his con-
voy. We at length recovered those purchased by
Messrs. de Neufville, but those purchased of Gillon
himself are stopped for his debt; and though I ac-
cepted and paid the bills for the purchase, according
to the agreement between him and Colonel Laurens,
I just learn from Mr. Barclay that they are now not
to be had without paying for them over again. If
that man ever arrives in America, he should be im-
mediately called to account for his conduct, but by
his touching at Teneriffe, I fear he is gone elsewhere.
I send you herewith one copy of our public accounts,
and shall send another by the Marquis de Lafayette,
who will probably go the beginning of next month.
I propose to get Mr. Barclay, if I can, to examine
them with the vouchers, but I send those copies at
present that you may see what abundance of calls
there are on me, of which, by your imagining so
much in my hands, you appear to have had no idea.
The expenditure of the sums here will be easily
examined and ascertained. For those sums being
always received in the first instance by our banker,

VOL. IX. — 10.

146 The Works of [1782

and he disbursing none but in payment of bills of
exchange accepted by me, or on written orders ex-
pressing on what accoimt the order is drawn, the
inspectors will readily see whether the articles agree
with those bills or orders and accounts.

Relying on Captain Barry's complying with my
orders to go to Brest, take in what he could of our
goods, and sail with the convoy, which does not go
till towards the end of this month, I delayed an-
swering your letters fully till I should obtain some
certainty relating to our money affairs. But I have
just received a letter from him, acquainting me with
his return from an unsuccessful cruise, and his reso-
lution to depart for America immediately after the
return of the post. It seems he had not, when he
wrote, received my letter directing him to call at
Brest. I write to him again to the same purpose;
but as he may nevertheless determine to return
directly, I cannot now add to this letter, but must
refer you to what I shall write by the Marquis.
With greatest and most sincere esteem, I have the

honor to be, sir, etc.,

B. Franklin.

P. S. — By the 15th of this month another miUion
of the Dutch loan will be consumed in paying bills,
etc., so that I fear it will be difficult for me to pay
those in favor of Mr. Ross, but I will try.

1782] Benjamin Franklin i47

MXXXVII

TO ROBERT R. LIVINGSTON

Passy, 4 March, 1782.

Sir : — Since I wrote the two short letters, of which
I herewith send you copies, I have been honored
with yours, dated the i6th of December/

Enclosed I send two letters from Count de Ver-
gennes, relating to certain complaints from Ostend
and Copenhagen against our cruisers. I formerly
forwarded a similar complaint from Portugal, to
which I have yet received no answer. The ambas-
sador of that country frequently teases me for it. I
hope now that, by your means, this kind of affairs
will be more immediately attended to ; ill blood and
mischief may be thereby sometimes prevented.

The Marquis de Lafayette was at his return hither
received by all ranks with all possible distinction.
He daily gains in the general esteem and affection,
and promises to be a great man here. He is warmly
attached to our cause; we are on the most friendly
and confidential footing with each other, and he is
really very serviceable to me in my applications for
additional assistance.

I have done what I could in recommending Mes-
sieurs Duportail and Gouvion, as you desired. I did
it with pleasure, as I have much esteem for them.

I will endeavor to procure a sketch of an emblem
for the purpose you mention. This puts me in
mind of a medal I have had a mind to strike, since
the late great event you gave me an accoimt of,

^ See Diplomatic Correspondence, Vol. III., p. 258.

148 The Works of [1782

representing the United States by the figure of an
infant Hercules in his cradle, strangling the two ser-
pents ; and France by that of Minerva, sitting by as
his nurse, with her spear and helmet, and her robe
specked with a few fleurs de lis. The extinguishing
of two entire armies in one war is what has rarely
happened, and it gives a presage of the future force
of our growing empire.'

I thank you much for the newspapers you have
been so kind as to send me. I send also to you, by
every opportunity, packets of the French, Dutch,
and English papers. Enclosed is the last Courier of
Europe, wherein you will find a late curious debate
on continuing the war in America, which the minis-
ter carried in the affirmative only by his own vote.
It seems the nation is sick of it, but the king is ob-
stinate. There is a change made of the American
Secretary, and another is talked of in the room of
Lord Sandwich. But I suppose we have no reason
to desire such changes. If the king will have a war
with us, his old servants are as well for us as any
he is likely to put in their places. The ministry,
you will see, declare that the war in America is for
the future to be only defensive. I hope we shall be
too prudent to have the least dependence on this

^ This medal was subsequently executed, under the direction of Dr.
Franklin, with some variations in the device. On one side is an infant
in his cradle strangling two serpents. Minerva, as the emblem of
France, with her spear, helmet, and shield, is engaged in a contest
with the British lion. The motto is, Non sine Diis animosus infans;
under which are the dates of the two victories at Saratoga and York-
town, " 17 Oct. 1777," and " 19 Oct. 1781." On the other side of the
medal is a head of Liberty; in the exergue, Libertas Americana, and
the date of American independence, "4 Jul. 1776."

1782] Benjamin Franklin 149

declaration. It is only thrown out to liill us; for,
depend upon it, the king hates us cordially, and will
be content with nothing short of our extirpation.

I shall be glad to receive the account you are pre-
paring, of the wanton damages done our possessions.
I wish you could also furnish me with one, of the
barbarities committed on otir people. They may
both be of excellent use on certain occasions. I
received the duplicate of yotirs in cipher. Here-
after, I wish you would use that in which those
instructions were written that relate to the future
peace. I am accustomed to that, and I think it
very good and more convenient in practice.

The friendly disposition of this court towards us
continues. We have sometimes pressed a little too
hard, expecting and demanding, perhaps, more than
we ought, and have used improper arguments, which
may have occasioned a little dissatisfaction, but it
has not been lasting. In my opinion, the surest way
to obtain liberal help from others is vigorously to
help ourselves. People fear assisting the negligent,
the indolent, and the careless, lest the aids they
afford should be lost. I know we have done a great
deal; but it is said we are apt to be supine after a
little success, and too backward in furnishing our
contingents. This is really a generous nation, fond
of glory, and particularly that of protecting the
oppressed. Trade is not the admiration of their
noblesse, who always govern here. Telling them
their commerce will be advantaged by our success,
and that it is their interest to help us, seems as much
as to say, "Help us, and we shall not be obliged to

150 The Works of [1782

you." Such indiscreet and improper language has
been sometimes held here by some of our people,
and produced no good effects.

The constant harmony subsisting between the
armies of the two nations in America is a circum-
stance that has afforded me infinite pleasure. It
should be carefully cultivated. I hope nothing will
happen to disturb it. The French officers who have
returned to France this winter speak of our people
in the handsomest and kindest manner; and there
is a strong desire in many of the young noblemen to
go over to fight for us; there is no restraining some
of them; and several changes among the officers of
their army have lately taken place in consequence.

You must be so sensible of the utility of maintain-
ing a perfect good understanding with the Chevalier
de la Luzerne that I need say nothing on that head.
The affairs of a distant people in any court of Europe
will always be much affected by the representations
of the minister of that court residing among them.

We have here great quantities of supplies of all
kinds ready to be sent over, and which would have
been on their way before this time, if the unlucky
loss of the transports that were under M. de Guichen
and other demands for more ships had not created a
difficulty to find freight for them. I hope, however,
that you will receive them with the next convoy.

The accoimts we have of the economy introduced
by Mr. Morris begin to be of service to us here, and
will by degrees obviate the inconvenience that an
opinion of our disorders and mismanagements had
occasioned. I inform him by this conveyance of the

1782] Benjamin Franklin 151

money aids we shall have this year. The sum is not
so great as we could wish ; and we must so much the
more exert ourselves. A small increase of industry
in every American, male and female, with a small
diminution of luxury, would produce a sum far
superior to all we can hope to beg or borrow from
all our friends in Europe.

There are now near a thousand of our brave fel-
lows prisoners in England, many of whom have pa-
tiently endured the hardships of that confinement
several years, resisting every temptation to serve
our enemies. Will not your late great advantages
put it in your power to do something for their relief ?
The slender supply I have been able to afford, of a
shilling a week to each, for their greater comfort
during the winter, amounts weekly to fifty pounds
sterling. An exchange would make so many of our
countrymen happy, add to our strength, and dimin-
ish our expense. But our privateers who cruise in
Europe will not be at the trouble of bringing in their
prisoners, and I have none to exchange for them.

Generals Comwallis and Arnold are both arrived
in England. It is reported that the former in all
his conversations discourages the prosecution of the
war in America; if so, he will, of course, be out of
favor. We hear much of audiences given to the
latter, and of his being present at councils.

You desire to know whether any intercepted let-
ters of Mr. Deane have been published in Europe?
I have seen but one in the English papers — that to
Mr. Wadsworth, — and none in any of the French
and Dutch papers ; but some may have been printed

152 The Works of [1782

that have not fallen in my way. There is no doubt
of their being all genuine. His conversation since
his return from America has, as I have been in-
formed, gone gradually more and more into that
style, and at length come to an open vindication of
Arnold's conduct; and within these few days he has
sent me a letter of twenty full pages, recapitulating
those letters, and threatening to write and publish
an account of the treatment he has received from
Congress, etc. He resides at Ghent, is distressed
both in mind and circumstances, raves and writes
abundance, and I imagine it will end in his going
over to join his friend Arnold in England. I had
an exceeding good opinion of him when he acted
with me, and I believe he was then sincere and
hearty in our cause. But he is changed, and his
character ruined in his own country and in this, so
that I see no other but England to which he can
now retire. He says that we owe him about twelve
thousand pounds sterling; and his great complaint
is that we do not settle his accounts and pay him.
Mr. Johnston having declined the service, I proposed
engaging Mr. Searle to undertake it ; but Mr. Deane
objected to him, as being his enemy. In my opinion
he was for that reason even fitter for the service of
Mr. Deane; since accounts are of a mathematical
nature and cannot be changed by an enemy, while
that enemy's testimony that he had found them well
supported by authentic vouchers would have weighed
more than the same testimony from a friend.'

With regard to negotiations for a peace, I see but

* See Diplomatic Correspondence, Vol. I., p. 217.

1782] Benjamin Franklin 153

little probability of their being entered upon seri-
ously this year, unless the English minister has
failed in raising his funds, which it is said he has
secured; so that we must provide for another cam-
paign, in which I hope God will continue to favor
us, and htmible our cruel and haughty enemies; a
circumstance which, whatever Mr. Deane may say
to the contrary, will give pleastu^e to all Europe.

This year opens well, by the reduction of Port
Mahon, and the garrison prisoners of war, and we
are not without hopes that Gibraltar may soon fol-
low. A few more signal successes in America will
do much towards reducing our enemies to reason.
Your expressions of good opinion with regard to
me, and wishes of my continuance in this employ-
ment, are very obliging. As long as the Congress
think I can be useful to our affairs, it is my duty to
obey their orders; but I should be happy to see
them better executed by another, and myself at lib-
erty, enjoying, before I quit the stage of life, some
small degree of leisure and tranquillity. With great
esteem, etc.,

B. Franklin.

MXXXVIII

TO ROBERT R. LIVINGSTON

Passy, 9 March, 1782.

Sir: — I have just received the honor of yours
dated January the 7th. Your communications of
the sentiments of Congress, with regard to many

154 The Works of [1782

points that may come under consideration in a
treaty of peace, give me great pleasure, and the more
as they agree so perfectly with my own opinions, and
furnish me with additional arguments in their sup-
port. I shall be more particular on this subject in
my next ; for, having notice from Captain Barry last
night that he will not go to Brest, as I expected, to
take in some of our goods, but will sail immediately
on the return of the post, which sets out to-day, I
am obliged to be short.

You will see in the enclosed newspapers the full
debate in the House of Commons, on the subject of
declining the war with North America. By private
advices I learn that the whole opposition, now become
the majority, went up in a body with the address to
the king, who answered that he would pay a due re-
gard to the advice of his faithful Commons, and em-
ploy his forces with more vigor against the ancient
enemies of the nation, or to that purpose; and that
orders were immediately given for taking up a great
number of large transports, among which are many
old India ships, whence it is conjectured that they
intend some great effort in the West Indies, and per-
haps mean to carry off their troops and stores from
New York and Charleston. I hope, however, that
we shall not, in expectation of this, relax in our
preparations for the approaching campaign. I will
procure the books you write for, and send them as
soon as possible.

Present my duty to the Congress, and believe me
to be, with sincere esteem, etc.,

B. Franklin.

1782] Benjamin Franklin 155

MXXXIX

TO ROBERT MORRIS

Passy, 9 March, 1782.

Sir: — I have just received the letter you did me
the honor of writing to me the 7th of January, with
the duplicates of sundry others. By this convey-
ance you will be pretty fully informed of the state
of our funds here, by which you will be enabled so
to regulate your drafts as that our credit in Europe
may not be ruined, and your friend killed with
vexation.

The cargo of the Marquis de Lafayette is all re-
placed, and at Brest ; but the late loss of transports
has occasioned a difficulty in conveying them. You
will see by the enclosed letter the measures I have
taken and my disappointment. Capt. Barry think
[sic] himself too much confined by your orders at
allow himself to go to Brest as I desired; and as the
Minister of the Marine was pleased with my inten-
tion, of employing that ship in taking a part (he
hoped 400 tons), he promised to endeavor to help us
in forwarding the rest ; but when he sees that we will
not help ourselves, but throw every burthen upon
our friends, I fear it may put him out of humor. I
find by experience that great affairs and great men
are sometimes influenced by small matters, and that
it is not good to differ with or disoblige them or even
their secretaries. I have apprehended that the little
misunderstanding between two persons in Philadel-
phia, of which you gave me an account, together with
the refusal of allowing the Virginia supply, had for

156 The Works of [1782

some time an ill effect here. You will see on com-
paring my modest letter of the February, with

the answer, that if I had replied, which I could
easily have done, a dispute might have arisen out of
it, in which, if I had got the better, I should per-
haps have got nothing else. I have therefore pock-
eted several of the observations that are not well
founded, and console myself for the present with
6,000,000 livres, relying on your promise that no
more loan-ofhce bills shall be drawn on me after the
first of April.

I shall, I believe, be able [to] pay in due time the
drafts in favor of Messrs. Ross & Bingham. As to
Mr. Holker, if the debt you mention as due to him
is for clothes, etc., sent to him by Mr. Chaumont,
it may as well remain unpaid, Mr. Chaumont having
refused to pay me about 70,000 livres on account of
the neglect of Congress to discharge a demand he
held against them, made by Mr. Holker. Goods of
his, delivered at Charlestown to General Lincoln, for
th use of the troops, are mentioned by him as still
unpaid for.

I congratulate you on the success of the banks. I
have written to Mr. Bache to interest me in a share.

You will see by the English papers which I send
to Mr. Secretary Livingston, that the sense of the
nation is now fully against the continuance of the
American war. The petitions of the cities of London
and Bristol were unanimous against it; Lord North
mustered all his force, yet had a majority against
him of nineteen. It is said there were but two who
voted with him that are not placemen or pensioners,

1782] Benjamin Franklin 157

and that even these, in their private conversations,
condemn the prosecution of the war, and lay it all
upon the king's obstinacy. We must not, however,
be lulled by these appearances. That nation is
changeable. And though somewhat humbled at
present, a little success may make them as insolent
as ever. I remember that, when I was a boxing
boy, it was allowed, even after an adversary said he
had enough, to give him a rising blow. Let ours be
a douser.

With great regard and esteem, I have the honor
to be, sir, etc., B. Franklin.

P. S. — Your fine boys are well and just by me.

MXL

TO JOHN JAY

Passy, 16 March, 1782.

Dear Sir: — I have received your several favors of
January 30th, February nth, and March ist, and
propose to write fully to you by the next post. In
the meantime this line may serve to acquaint you
that I paid duly all your former bills drawn in favor
of M. Cabarrus, and that, having obtained a promise
of six millions for this year, to be paid me quarterly,
I now see that I shall be able to pay your drafts for
discharging the sums you may be obliged to borrow
for paying those upon you; in which, however, I
wish you to give me as much time as you can, divid-
ing them so that they may not come upon me at

158 The Works of [1782

once. Interest should be allowed your friends who
advance for you. Please to send me a complete list
of all the bills you have accepted, their numbers and
dates, marking which are paid, and what are still to

pay.

I congratulate you upon the change of sentiments
in the British nation. It has been intimated to me
from thence that they are willing to make a separate
peace with us, exclusive of France, Spain, and Hol-
land, which, so far as relates to France, is impossible;
and I believe they will be content that we leave them
the other two; but Holland is stepping towards us,
and I am not without hopes of a second loan there.
And, since Spain does not think our friendship worth
cultivating, I wish you would inform me of the whole
sum we owe her, that we may think of some means
of paying it off speedily. With sincerest regard, I
am, etc., B. Franklin.

MXLI

FROM DAVID HARTLEY

London, 21 March, 1782.

My Dear Friend: — You will have heard before
this can reach you that Lord North declared yester-
day in the House of Commons that his Majesty
intended to change his ministers. The House is
adjourned for a few days to give time for the forma-
tion of a new ministry. Upon this occasion, there-
fore, I must apply to you, to know whether you
would wish me to transfer the late negotiation to the
successors of the late ministry ; in these terms (vide

1782] Benjamin Franklin 159

yours to me of January 15, 1782), viz. : ' ' that you are
empowered by a special commission to treat of
peace, whenever a negotiation for that purpose shall
be opened; that it must be always understood that
it is to be in conjunction with your allies, conform-
able to the solemn treaties made with them; that
the formal acknowledgment of the independence of
America is not made necessary." And may I add,
that upon these terms you are disposed to enter into
a negotiation ? It is not known who will succeed the
late ministry; but, from the circumstances which
preceded its dissolution, we are to hope that they
will be disposed to enter into a negotiation of peace
upon fair and honorable terms. I have no doubt
that there were some persons in the late ministry of
that disposition,

I told you in my last letters to you, of the nth and
12th instant, that I had received information, whilst
I was in the course of correspondence with the min-
istry myself, on the subject of peace, that some part
of the ministry were transmitting some communica-
tions or inquiries upon that subject to Mr. Adams,
unknown to me. I had informed the ministry, from
you, of the names of the four persons empowered to
treat. I saw the minister upon the occasion. (I
should now call him the late minister.) I took the
liberty of giving him my opinion upon the matter
itself. So far as it related personally to me, I ex-
pressed myself fully to him that there was no oc-
casion that such a step should have been taken
unknown to me, for that I was very free to confess
that, if they thought my partiality towards peace

i6o The Works of [1782

was so strong that they could drive a better bargain
through another channel, I could not have any-
right of exclusion upon them.

I relate this to you because I would wish to have
you make a corresponding application to your own
case. If you should think that my strong desire for
peace, although most laudable and virtuous in itself,
should mislead me, and that my being, as you may
suppose, misled, may be of any prejudice to the
cause committed to your trust, I desire by no means
to embarrass your free conduct by any considera-
tions of private or personal regard to myself. Hav-
ing said thus much, I will now add that I am not
unambitious of the office of a peacemaker; that I
flatter myself the very page which I am now writ-
ing will bear full testimony, from both sides, of the
impartiality of my conduct. And I will add once
more, what I have often said and repeated to each
side, viz., that no fallacy or deception, knowing or
suspecting it to be such, shall ever pass through my
hands.

Believe me, I sympathize most cordially and sin-
cerely with you in every anxiety of yours for peace.
I hope things are tending, although not without rubs,
yet in the main, to that end soon; as soon as the
course of himian life may be expected to operate on
the great scale and course of national events, or
rather in the creation and establishment of a new
world. I am sometimes tempted to think myself
in patient expectation the elder sage of the two; I
say the elder, not the better. Yours, etc.,

D. Hartley.

1782] Benjamin Franklin 161

MXLII

TO M. DE RAYNEVAL

Passy, 22 March, 1782.

Sir: — With this I have the honor of sending you
all the letters I have received from or written to
England on the subject of peace. M. de Vergennes
should have seen them sooner, if I had imagined
them of any importance ; for I have never had the
least desire or intention of keeping such correspond-
ence secret. I was, as you will see, accidentally
drawn into this, and, conceiving it of no use, I have
been backward in continuing it.

I send you also some papers which show the
attentive care of the Congress respecting the laws of
nations, and which were intended to accompany my
letter relating to Denmark, but then omitted.

Herewith you will also receive the vote of Congress
empowering the Commissioners to borrow money.

With great esteem I have the honor to be, sir,
yours, etc., B. Franklin.

MXLIII

TO MR. WILLIAMS

Passy, 23 March, 1782.

Dear Jonathan:— I have received yours of the
19th instant, with the account of the duties you
have paid. I do not comprehend the policy of
burthening their own manufactures, but the laws of
the country we trade with must be observed.
^ I have determined to rely on the government en-
tirely for the transport of the goods. I am in-
structed not to send them but under convoy directly

i62 The Works of [1782

to Philadelphia, and I cannot trust myself in making
bargains for ships, being too ignorant in such mat-
ters. Particularly I will enter into no such bargain
with my cousin. If it should prove a hard one for
you, it would hurt my feelings of friendship; and
if a profitable one, I shall be reflected on as having
given you a lucrative job at the expense of the pub-
lic. I believe the government would still take more
ships if offered soon, so that you may there find
employ for the ships you propose to buy, if you like
the terms. Our occasions are not so pressing as to
justify my giving extravagant freights. By advices
from America it appears that our army was provided
with clothing for this year; that the cargo of the
Marquis de Lafayette was arrived at Philadelphia
from St. Thomas, and lay upon the hands of the
importers; the arms taken with Cornwallis, and
large quantity arrived at Boston, put us at our ease
on that article; and we have therefore more than a
year before us to get our goods over. Mr. Morris
writes me that he is sorry the purchase has been
made, and wishes the value had still remained in
money at our disposal ; so I can only thank you for
your offer, and decline it.

I hope the seeds will arrive soon, or the season of
planting will be lost, and they become useless. Billy
will send you the paper and ink powder. My love
to the good wife, and believe me ever

Your affectionate uncle,

B. Franklin.

P. S. — The St. Domingo fleet, if it arrives, will
furnish a good many ships.

1782] Benjamin Franklin 163

MXLIV

FROM JOHN ADAMS

The Hague, 26 March, 1782.

Sir : — One day last week I received at Amsterdam
a card from Mr. Digges, enclosing two letters to me
from David Hartley. The card desired to see me
upon business of importance; and the letters from
Mr. Hartley contained an assurance that to his
knowledge the bearer came from the highest author-
ity. I answered the card that in the present situa-
tion of affairs here and elsewhere it was impossible
for me to see any one from England without witness ;
but if he were willing to see me in the presence of Mr.
Thaxter, my secretary, and that I should communi-
cate whatever he should say to me to Dr. FrankHn
and the Count de Vergennes, I should wait for him
at home at ten o'clock; but that I had rather he
should go to Paris without seeing me, and communi-
cate what he had to say to Dr. Franklin, whose
situation enabled him to consult the court without
any loss of time. At ten, however, he came, and
told me a long story about consultations with Mr.
Penn, Mr. Hartley, Lord Beauchamp, and at last
Lord North, by whom he was finally sent to inquire
of me if I or any other had authority to treat with
Great Britain of a truce. I answered that ''I came
to Europe with full powers to make peace; that
those powers had been announced to the public
upon my arrival, and continued in force until last
summer, when Congress sent a new commission, con-
taining the same powers, to four persons, whom I

i64 The Works of [1782

named; that if the king of England were my father,
and I the heir apparent to his throne, I could not
advise him ever to think of a truce, because it would
be but a real war under a simulated appearance of
tranquillity, and would end in another open and
bloody war, without doing any real good to any of
the parties."

He said that "the ministry would send some per-
son of consequence over, perhaps General Conway,
but they were apprehensive that he would be ill
treated or exposed." I said "that, if they resolved
upon such a measure, I had rather they would send
immediately to Dr. Franklin, because of his situa-
tion near the French court. But there was no
doubt, if they sent any respectable personage, prop-
erly authorized, who should come to treat honorably,
he would be treated with great respect ; but that, if
he came to me, I could give him no opinion upon
any thing without consulting my colleagues, and
should reserve a right of communicating every thing
to them, and to our allies."

He then said that ' ' his mission was finished ; that
the fact to be ascertained was simply that there was
a commission in Europe to treat and conclude; but
that there was not one person in Great Britain who
could affirm or prove that there was such a com-
mission, although it had been announced in the
gazettes."

I desired him, and he promised me, not to mention
Mr. Laurens to the ministry without his consent
(and without informing him that it was impossible
he should say any thing in the business, because

1782] Benjamin Franklin 165

he knew nothing of our instructions), because,
although it was possible that his being in such a
commission might induce them to release him, yet
it was also possible it might render them more diffi-
cult concerning his exchange.

The picture he gives of the situation of things in
England is gloomy enough for them. The distresses
of the people, and the distractions in administration
and Parliament, are such as may produce any effect,
almost, that can be imagined.

The only use of all this, I think, is to strike the
decisive strokes at New York and Charleston. There
is no position so advantageous for negotiation as
when we have all an enemy's army prisoners. I
must beg the favor of you, sir, to send me, by one of
the Count de Vergennes' couriers to the Due de la
Vauguyon, a copy in letters of your peace instruc-
tions. I have not been able to decipher one quarter
part of mine. Some mistake has certainly been made.

Ten or eleven cities in Holland have declared
themselves in favor of American independence; and
it is expected that to-day, or to-morrow, this pro-
vince will take the decisive resolution of admitting me
to my audience. Perhaps some of the other pro-
vinces may delay it for three or four weeks. But
the prince has declared that he has no hopes of
resisting the torrent, and, therefore, that he shall not
attempt it.' The Due de la Vauguyon has acted a

^ Mr. Adams was admitted to an audience of the Prince of Orange on
the 2 2d of April, when he presented his letter of credence from Con-
gress, and was recognized by the prince as Minister Plenipotentiary
from the United States. The next day the French ambassador made
an entertainment, at which all the foreign ministers were present, and

1 66 The Works of [1782

very friendly and honorable part in this business,
without, however, doing any ministerial act in it.
With great respect, I have the honor to be, sir,
your most obedient and most himible servant,

John Adams.

MXLV

TO ROBERT MORRIS

Passy, 30 March, 1782.

Sir: — With this, if it comes to hand, you will
receive copies of several preceding letters to you,
which went by the Alliance, Captain Barry, who
sailed the 15th, without taking any of our supplies,
conceiving his vessel not fit for such service, and I
am still uncertain whether any part can go by the
convoy. If the St. Domingo fleet, which has long
been expected, were arrived, transports would not be
so scarce. Captain Barry tells me there is abundance
of arms and ammunition at Boston, and the capture
of Comwallis having furnished more, I hope those
articles will not be much wanted. I have also been
informed that the cargo of clothing sent by the ship
Marquis de Lafayette is arrived with you from neu-
tral ports, and offered at a low price. If this be
true, the unavoidable delay of goods we have here
on hand will not on the whole be so prejudicial to
our affairs. We do not, however, rely on these in-
formations, but press continually for the aid of
government to get them transported safely. Mr.

Mr. Adams was formally introduced to them. See Diplomatic Cor-
respondence, Vol. VI., pp. 339, 342.

1782] Benjamin Franklin 167

Barclay is still in Holland, endeavoring to ship the
unfortunate purchase left there by Gillon; and if
his ships go safe, you will be furnished from thence
with something considerable.

Since my last I have paid in Holland a ntimber of
bills of exchange drawn in favor of Mr. Ross, amount-
ing to 40,958 bank florins, and by that means pre-
vented their protest. No demand has been made on
me by Mr. Wm. Lee. I do not know where he is;
and I think he did so little for the 3,000 guineas he
received, that he may wait without much inconveni-
ence for the addition. I have paid Captain Frey and
taken the receipts you required. In the other dis-
positions you have ordered, I shall do the best I can.

Before I was sufficiently assured myself, or could
assure Mr. Jay of having wherewithal to assist him
in discharging his acceptances, I heard he had begun
to suffer some of them to be protested. As soon as
I found it was possible for me to assist him, I wrote
to him to draw upon me for the sum he wanted, be-
ing near thirty thousand pounds sterling, which will
put a stop to those protests, and enable him to pay
honorably.

By the newspapers I send to Mr. Secretary Liv-
ingston you will see the change of sentiment respect-
ing us in the English nation. I do not know whether
this will diminish your expense for the coming cam-
paign, because while they have an army in our coun-
try I do not think their proposed inactivity is to be
trusted, though it is said that after such resolutions
of Parliament no minister will dare to order offensive
operations. Their papers say that orders are given

1 68 The Works of [1782

both in England and Ireland to stop the embarka-
tion of troops intended for North America ; but what
I rely on more, is some information I have just re-
ceived from Germany, that the march of recruits
there to the seaside is also countermanded. If from
what it is their interest to do, one could conclude what
they will do, I should imagine that, alarmed with the
loss of St. Christopher, they would withdraw their
troops from the continent in order to defend their
remaining islands. But this ministry have hitherto
so constantly acted contrary to the true interest of
their nation, and so inconsistently with common
reason and judgment that one cannot fairly draw
such a conclusion.

The goods for replacing the cargo of the Marquis
de Lafayette had been purchased long before we
knew that you could have wished it otherwise. I
hope the invoice you sent me of goods to be bought
by Messrs. Barclay & Ridley will be partly rendered
unnecessary by the purchase, because I see no pos-
sibility of paying the sum required for the invoice,
viz., near two millions, having received the most ex-
plicit and positive assurances that more money than
I have mentioned cannot this year be obtained.

Permit me to hope also, and for the same reason,
that the bills you will find yourself obliged to draw
on me may not amount to a very large sum. Hitherto
I have accepted and paid all drafts upon myself, and
enabled my colleagues to discharge those upon them,
with punctuality and honor, the few above men-
tioned on Mr. Jay only excepted. I wish to finish
this part of my employment with the credit I have

1782] Benjamin Franklin 169

hitherto supported both for myself and for my con-
stituents. I must in June next pay Mr. Beaumar-
chais near 2,500,000 livres. I have often been in
great distress and suffered much anxiety. I still
dread at times the same situation ; but your promise
that after this month no more bills shall be drawn
on me keeps up my spirits and affords me the great-
est satisfaction.

I am extremely pleased with the various prudent
measures you have with so much industry put in
practice to draw forth our internal strength. I hope
they will be attended with the success they merit,
and I thank you for the communication.

Our former friend, Mr. Deane, has lost himself
entirely. He and his letters are universally con-
demned. He cannot well return hither, and I think
hardly to America. I see no place for him but Eng-
land. He continues, however, to sit croaking at
Ghent, chagrined, discontented, and dispirited. You
will see by the enclosed what Mr. Barclay says of his
accounts. Me thinks it would be well to have them
examined, and to give orders for the payment of
what is found justly due to him. Whether the com-
mission he charges on the purchases made by Mr.
Beaumarchais comes under that description, I can-
not say; the Congress will judge.

I will endeavor to send the books with the Mar-
quis, who does not go yet for three or four weeks. I
shall write further by that opportunity. At present
I can only add that I am ever, with the sincerest
esteem and respect, dear sir, your, etc.,

B. Franklin.

I70 The Works of [1782

MXLVI

TO ROBERT R. LIVINGSTON

Passy, 30 March, 1782.

Sir: — In mine of the gth instant I acknowledged
the receipt of yours of January 7 th, and I have not
since received any of later date. The newspapers
which I send you by this conveyance will acquaint
you with what has since my last passed in Parlia-
ment. You will there see a copy of the bill brought
in by the attorney-general for empowering the king
to make peace with the colonies. They still seem to
flatter themselves with the idea of dividing us ; and,
rather than name the Congress, they empower him
generally to treat with any body or bodies of men,
or any person or persons, etc. They are here like-
wise endeavoring to get us to treat separately from
France ; at the same time they are tempting France
to treat separately from us; equally without the
least chance of success. I have been drawn into a
correspondence on this subject, which you shall have
with my next.

I send you a letter of Mr. Adams', just received,
which shows also that they are weary of the war, and
would get out of it if they knew how. They had not
then received the certain news of the loss of St.
Christopher's, which will probably render them still
more disposed to peace. I see that a bill is also
passing through the House of Commons for the ex-
change of American prisoners, the purport of which
I do not yet know.

In my last I promised to be more particular with

1782] Benjamin Franklin 171

respect to the points you mentioned as proper to be
insisted on in the treaty of peace. My ideas on those
points are, I assure you, full as strong as yours. I
did intend to give you my reasons for some addition,
and if the treaty were to be held on your side of the
water I would do it; otherwise, it seems on second
thoughts to be unnecessary, and, if my letter should
be intercepted, may be inconvenient. Be assured
I shall not willingly give up any important right or
interest of our country, and, unless this campaign
should afford otir enemies some considerable advan-
tage, I hope more may be obtained than is yet
expected.

I have purchased for you all the books you desired
except four, which we have sent for to England. I
shall request our excellent friend, the Marquis de
Lafayette, to take them under his care, and I hope
they will get safe to hand. The others shall follow
b}^ the first opportunity after I receive them.

Our affairs go on, generally, well in Europe. Hol-
land has been slow; Spain slower; but time will, I
hope, smooth away all difficulties. Let us keep up
not only our courage but our vigilance, and not be
laid asleep by the pretended half peace the English
make with us without asking our consent. We can-
not be safe while they keep armies in our country.
With great esteem, etc.,

B. Franklin.

172 The Works of [1782

MXLVII

TO JOHN ADAMS

Passy, 31 March, 1782.

Sir: — I received yours of the loth instant, and am
of opinion, with you, that the Enghsh will evacuate
New York and Charleston; as the troops there, after
the late resolutions of Parliament, must be useless,
and are necessary to defend their remaining islands,
where they have not at present more than three
thousand men. The prudence of this operation is
so obvious, that I think they can hardly miss it;
otherwise, I own that, considering their conduct for
several years past, it is not reasoning consequentially
to conclude they will do a thing because the doing
it is required by common-sense.

Yours of the 26th is just come to hand. I thank
you for the communication of Digges' message. He
has also sent me a long letter,^ with two from Mr.
Hartley. I shall see M. de Vergennes to-morrow,
and will acquaint you with every thing material that
passes on the subject. But the ministry, by whom
Digges pretends to be sent, being changed, we shall,
by waiting a little, see what tone will be taken by
their successors. You shall have a copy of the in-
structions by the next courier. I congratulate you

I Mr. Digges said in his letter, that he was sent at the instance of
the British ministry to ascertain "whether any person or persons in
Europe were commissioned by Congress to treat for peace, whether
they were now wilUng to avail themselves of such commission, and of
the sincere disposition of the ministry to treat, and whether they
would receive an appointed commissioner to speak for a truce, and
mention the place for a meeting. See Diplomatic Correspondence, Vol.
III., p. 320.

1782] Benjamin Franklin 173

cordially on the progress you have made among
those slow people. Slow however as they are, Mr.
Jay finds his ' much slower. By an American,' who
goes m about ten days to Holland, I shall send you
a packet of correspondence with Mr. Hartlev, though
it amounts to little.

With great esteem, I have the honor to be your Ex-
cellency's most obedient and most humble servant,

B. Franklin.

MXLVIII

TO DAVID HARTLEY
T^ Passy, 31 March, 1782.

UEAR biR:— I have just received your favors of
March the nth and 12th, forwarded to me by Mr
Digges, and another of the 21st per post. I con-
gratulate you on the returning good disposition of
your nation towards America, which appears in the
resolutions of Parliament that you have sent me;
and I hope the change of your ministry will be at-
tended with salutary effects. I continue in the same
sentiments expressed in my former letters; but, as
I am but one of five in the commission, and have
no knowledge of the sentiments of the others, what
has passed between us is to be considered merely as
private conversation. The five persons are Messrs.
Adams, Jay, Laurens, Jefferson, and myself; and, in
case of death or absence of any, the remainder have
power to act or conclude. I have not written to Mr.

^ The Spaniards.

174 The Works of [1782

Laurens, having constantly expected him here, but
shall write to him next post ; when I shall also write
more fully to you, having now only time to add that
I am ever, with great esteem and affection, dear sir,
your most obedient and most humble servant,

B. Franklin.

MXLIX

TO MR. W. HODGSON

Passy, 31 March, 1782.

Sir: — It is long since I have been able to afford
myself the pleasure of writing to you, but I have had
that of receiving several letters from you, and I sent
you in consequence a credit for £300, which I hope
you received. I am sorry that you had been obliged
to advance. The trouble you so kindly take is suf-
ficient. I just hear from Ireland that there are 200
of our people prisoners there, who are destitute of
every necessary, and die daily in numbers. You are
about to have a new ministry, I hear. If a sincere
reconciliation is desired, kindness to the captives on
both sides may promote it greatly. I have no cor-
respondent in Ireland. Can you put me in a way of
sending those poor men some relief? And if you
think the new ministry better disposed than the last,
I wish you would lay before them the slighted pro-
position I formerly sent you, for the exchange of
prisoners. I see in your newspapers that an act is
passing through the House of Commons relative to
that subject. I beg you would send me a copy of

1782] Benjamin Franklin 175

the bill. Of the dispositions on your side towards
peace or continuance of war, you must know more
than me. I can only assure you of mine to finish
this devilish contest as soon as possible ; and I have
not lost sight of your request.

B. Franklin.

ML

TO M. l'aBBE DE ST. FAVRE, PRIEUR DE ST. MARTIN

Passy, 31 March, 1782.

Sir : — I do not recollect that I have ever known or
seen the person you mention ; and it is certain that I
never knew or heard that M. de Beaumarchais was
charged with the payment of gratifications to those
who had been prisoners of war, or that any such
gratifications were allowed; so that I could not have
sent any person to that gentleman for such purpose.
I honor the goodness of your heart, and I ought not
to permit by my silence your being imposed on by
these deceivers. Success might encourage this young
impostor to rely on such artifices for subsistence ; he
might by practice become more expert, and become
a pest to society. Such frauds are vastly more per-
nicious than simple thefts, for they wrong not only
the person deceived of the sum obtained, but they
create a diffidence which prevents the reHef of per-
sons whose misfortunes and distress are real.

I have the honor to be, sir, etc.,

B. Franklin.

176 The Works of [1782

MLI

TO GEORGE WASHINGTON

Passy, 2 April, 1782.

Sir: — I received duly the honor of your letter,
accompanying the capitulation of General Cornwal-
lis. All the world agree that no expedition was
ever better planned or better executed ; it has made
a great addition to the military reputation you had
already acquired, and brightens the glory that sur-
rounds your name, and that must accompany it to
our latest posterity. No news could possibly make
me more happy. The infant Hercules has now
strangled the two serpents ^ that attacked him in his
cradle, and I trust his future history will be answer-
able.

This will be presented to you by the Count de
S^gur.' He is son of the Marquis de S6gur, Minis-
ter of War, and our very good friend; but I need
not claim your regards to the young gentleman on
that score; his amiable personal qualities, his very
sensible conversation, and his zeal for the cause of
liberty will obtain and secure your esteem, and be
better recommendation than any I can give him.

The English seem not to know either how to con-
tinue the war, or to make peace with us. Instead of
entering into a regular treaty for putting an end to a
contest they are tired of, they have voted in Parlia-

^ Alluding to the stirrender of the two British armies under Bur-
goyne and Comwallis, October 17, 1777, and October 19, 1781.

' Afterwards for several years ambassador at the court of St. Peters-
biirg. See Sparks 's Life of Ledyard, ist ed., pp. 191, 283.

1782] Benjamin Franklin i77

ment that the recovery of America by force is im-
practicable, that an offensive war against us ought
not to be continued, and that whoever advises it
shall be deemed an enemy to his country.

Thus the garrisons of New York and Charleston,
if continued there, must sit still, being only allowed
to defend themselves. The ministry, not under-
standing or approving this making of peace by
halves, have quitted their places ; but we have no
certain account here who is to succeed them, so that
the measures likely to be taken are yet uncertain;
probably we shall know something of them be-
fore the Marquis de Lafayette takes his departure.
There are grounds for good hopes, however ; but I
think we should not therefore relax in our prepara-
tions for a vigorous campaign, as that nation is sub-
ject to sudden fluctuations; and, though somewhat
humiliated at present, a little success in the West
Indies may dissipate their present fears, recall their
natural insolence, and occasion the interruption of
negotiation, and a continuance of the war. We
have great stores purchased here for the use of your
army, which will be sent as soon as transports can
be procured for them to go under good convoy.

My best wishes always have and always will attend
you, being with the greatest and most sincere esteem
and respect, sir, your Excellency's most obedient and

most humble servant,

B. Franklin.

178 The Works of [1782

MLII

TO DAVID HARTLEY

Passy, 5 April, 1782.

My Dear Friend: — I wrote a few lines to you the
31st past, and promised to write more fully. On
perusing again your letters of the nth, 12th, and
2ist, I do not find any notice taken of one from me,
dated February the i6th. I therefore now send you
a copy made from it in the press. The uncertainty
of free transmission discourages a free communica-
tion of sentiments on these important affairs; but
the inutility of discussion between persons, one of
whom is not authorized but in conjunction with
others, and the other not authorized at all, as well
as the obvious inconveniences that may attend such
previous handling of points, that are to be considered
when we come to treat regularly, is with me a still
more effectual discouragement, and determines me
to waive that part of the correspondence.

As to Digges, I have no confidence in him, nor in
any thing he says, or may say, of his being sent by
ministers. Nor will I have any communication with
him, except in receiving and considering the justifica-
tion of himself, which he pretends he shall be able
and intends to make, for his excessive drafts on me,
on account of the relief I have ordered to the prison-
ers, and his embezzlement of the money.

You justly observe, in yours of the 12th, that the
first object is to procure a "meeting of qualified and
authorized persons," and that you understand the
ministry will be ready to proceed towards opening a

1782] Benjamin Franklin i79

negotiation as soon as the bill shall pass, and there-
fore it is necessary to consult time and place, and
manner and persons, on each side. This you wrote
while the old ministry existed. If the new have the
same intentions, and desire a general peace, they
may easily discharge Mr. Laurens from those en-
gagements which make his acting in the commission
improper; and, except Mr. Jefferson, who remains
in America, and is not expected here, we, the Com-
missioners of Congress, can easily be got together
ready to meet yours, at such place as shall be agreed
to by the powers at war, in order to form the treaty.
God grant that there may be wisdom enough as-
sembled to make, if possible, a peace that shall be
perpetual, and that the idea of any nations being
natural enemies to each other may be abohshed, for
the honor of human nature.

With regard to those who may be commissioned
from your government, whatever personal prefer-
ences I may conceive in my own mind, it cannot be-
come me to express them. I only wish for wise and
honest men. With such, a peace may be speedily
concluded. With contentious wranglers, the nego-
tiation may be drawn into length, and finally
frustrated.

I am pleased to see, in the votes and parliamentary
speeches, and in your pubhc papers, that, in men-
tioning America, the word reconciliation is often
used. It certainly means more than a mere peace.
It is a sweet expression. Revolve in your mind, my
dear friend, the means of bringing about this recon-
ciliation. When you consider the injustice of your

i8o The Works of [1782

war with us, and the barbarous manner in which it
has been carried on, the many suffering famiHes
among us from your burning of towns, scalping by
savages, etc., etc., will it not appear to you that,
though a cessation of the war may be a peace, it
may not be a reconciliation? Will not some volun-
tary acts of justice, and even of kindness on your
part, have excellent effects towards producing such
a reconciliation? Can you not find means of repair-
ing in some degree those injuries? You have in
England and Ireland twelve hundred of our people
prisoners, who have for years bravely suffered all
the hardships of that confinement, rather than enter
into your service, to fight against their country.
Methinks you ought to glory in descendants of such
virtue. What if you were to begin your measures
of reconciliation by setting them at liberty? I know
it would procure for you the liberty of an equal num-
ber of your people, even without a previous stipu-
lation; and the confidence in our equity, with the
apparent good- will in the action, would give very
good impressions of your change of disposition
towards us. Perhaps you have no knowledge of
the opinions lately conceived of your king and coun-
try in America; the enclosed copy of a letter will
make you a little acquainted with them, and con-
vince you how impossible must be every project of
bringing us again under the dominion of such a sov-
ereign. With great esteem, I am, dear sir, etc.,

B. Franklin.

1782] Benjamin Franklin 181

MLIII

FROM THE CHEVALIER DELFINO

Paris, 6 April, 1782.

The Academy of Sciences and Arts in Padua de-
sire to add the name of FrankUn to those with which
the hst of its members is already honored. The
Chevalier Delfino, Venetian Ambassador, will be
greatly flattered by being allowed to communicate
this satisfaction to a rising institution, which enjoys
the special protection of the government.

He joins his own solicitation to that of the Acade-
micians, and has the honor to assure Dr. Franklin
of his most sincere consideration.^

I The Society sent to him a diploma, of which the following is a
translation: "Padua. 20 December, 1781.

"Zeal in promoting the increase of all kinds of useful knowledge
naturally unites in a general society all those who consecrate their
talents to so noble a purpose; and the particular act of electmg them
into a learned assembly is properly but an acknowledgment of the
original titles of their relationship. . ,. • ..1

"Among these, Dr. Franklin having distinguished himself eminently,
and rendered himself equally memorable in natural philosophy and m
politics, the Academy of Sciences, Letters, and Arts of Padua con-
ceive it to be honoring themselves when they number him among the
twenty-four strangers who, by their constitution, are to be associated
into their body.

"The Society will be fully recompensed, if its labors m co-operatmg
for the augmentation of science shall be such as that the eminent
persons whom it elects may not regard among the smallest of literary
honors that which, on the part of the Society, is only a solemn act of
adherence to its own judgment, and attention to the voice of fame.

"Leopoldo M. M. Caldani,

' ' President.
"Matteo Strannoia,

"Sec. for the Sciences.
"Melchior Cesarotti,

"Sec. for Literature."

i82 The Works of [1782

MLIV

TO THE CHEVALIER DE CHASTELLUX ^

Passy, 6 April, 1782.

Dear Sir: — It gave me great pleasure to hear by
the officers returned last winter from your army, that
you continued in good health. You will see by the
public papers that the English begin to be weary of
the war, and they have reason, having stiff ered many
losses, having four nations of enemies on their hands,
few men to spare, little money left, and very bad
heads. The latter they have lately changed. As
yet we know not what measures their new ministry
will take. People generally think they will be em-
ployed by the king to extricate him from his present
difficulties, by obtaining a peace, and that then he
will kick them out again, they being all men that he
abominates, and who have been forced upon him by
the Parliament.

The Commons have already made a sort of half
peace with us Americans, by forbidding their troops
on the continent to act offensively ; and by a new law
they have empowered the king to complete it. As
yet I hear nothing of the terms they mean to propose ;
indeed, they have had hardly time to form them. I
know they wish to detach us from France ; but that
is impossible.

I congratulate you on the success of your last
glorious campaign. Establishing the liberties of
America will not only make that people happy, but
will have some effect in diminishing the misery of

' At this time with the French army in America.

1782] Benjamin Franklin 183

those who in other parts of the world groan under
despotism, by rendering it more circimispect, and
inducing it to govern with a lighter hand. A philo-
sopher, endowed with those strong sentiments of
humanity that are manifested in your excellent
writings,^ must enjoy great satisfaction in having
contributed so extensively by his sword, as well as
by his pen, to the feliciU publtque.

M. le Comte de Segur has desired of me a line of
recommendation to you. I consider his request
rather as a compliment to me than as asking what
may be of use to him, since I find that all who know
him here esteem and love him, and he is certainly
not unknown to you.

Dare I confess to you that I am your rival with

Madame G ? I need not tell you that I am not

a dangerous one. I perceive that she loves you very
much; and so does, dear sir, yours, etc.,

B. Franklin.

MLV

TO MADAM GREENE

Passy, 7 April, 1782.

My Dear Old Friend:— If the Comte de Segur,
son of the Minister of War, should happen to be in
your neighborhood, I recommend him warmly to
your civilities and friendship, and to those of the
good governor. You will find him as amiable and

^ His principal work was entitled De la Felicite Publique.

i84 The Works of [1782

deserving as any of the French officers whose good
conduct you so much applauded last year. I con-
tinue as hearty and well as when you first knew me,
which, I think, is near thirty years, though perhaps
you will not care to own so much. Make my re-
spectful compliments to Mr. Greene, give my love
to my friend Ray, and believe me ever, my dear
friend, yours most affectionately,

B. Franklin.

MLVI

TO GEORGE WASHINGTON

Passy, 8 April, 1782.

Sir: — I did myself the honor of writing to you a
few days since by the Count de S^gur. This line is
chiefly to present the Prince de Broglie to your Ex-
cellency, who goes over to join the army of M. de
Rochambeau. He bears an excellent character here,
is a hearty friend to our cause, and I am persuaded
you will have a pleasure in his conversation. I take
leave, therefore, to recommend him to those civilities
which you are always happy in showing to strangers
of merit and distinction.

I have heretofore congratulated your Excellency
on your victories over our enemy's generals; I can
now do the same on your having overthrown their
politicians. Your late successes have so strengthened
the hands of opposition in Parliament that they are
become the majority, and have compelled the king

1782] Benjamin Franklin 185

to dismiss all his old ministers and their adherents.
The imclean spirits he was possessed with are now
cast out of him; but it is imagined that, as soon as
he has obtained a peace, they will return with others
worse than themselves, and the last state of that man,
as the Scripture says, shall be worse than the first.

As soon as we can learn any thing certain of the
projects of the new ministry, I shall take the first op-
portunity of communicating them. With the great-
est esteem and respect, I am, sir, your Excellency's
etc.,

B. Franklin.

MLVII

TO ROBERT R. LIVINGSTON

Passy, 8 April, 1782.

Sir: — Since my last, an extraordinary revolution
has taken place in the court of England. All the old
ministers are out, and the chiefs of the opposition are
in their places. The newspapers that I send will give
you the names as correctly as we yet know them.
Our last advices mention their kissing hands, but
they had yet done nothing in their respective offices,
by which one might judge of their projected meas-
ures, as whether they will ask a peace, of which they
have great need, the nation having of late suffered
many losses, men grown extremely scarce, and Lord
North's new taxes, proposed as funds for the loan,
meeting with great opposition; or whether they
will strive to find new resources, and obtain allies,

i86 The Works of [1782

to enable them to please the king and nation by
some vigorous exertions against France, Spain, and
Holland.

With regard to America, having, while in opposi-
tion, carried the vote for making no longer an offen-
sive war with us, they seem to have tied their own
hands from acting against us. Their predecessors
had been tampering with this court for a separate
peace. The king's answer gave me great pleasure.
It will be sent to M. de la Luzerne, and by him com-
municated to Congress. None of their attempts to
divide us meet with the least encouragement, and I
imagine the present set will try other measures.

My letters from Holland give pleasing accounts
of the rapid progress our affairs are making in that
country. The packet from M. Dumas, which I for-
ward with this, will give you the particulars. The
Prince de Broglie will do me the favor of delivering
this to you. He goes over to join the French army
with the more pleasure, as it is employed in the cause
of liberty, a cause he loves, and in estabUshing the
interests of America, a country for which he has
much regard and affection. I recommend him ear-
nestly to the civilities and services it may be in your
power to render him, and I request you would intro-
duce him to the President of Congress, and to the
principal members, civil and military.

Our excellent friend, the Marquis de Lafayette,
will sail in about three weeks. By that time we may
have more interesting intelligence from England, and
I shall write you fully. With great esteem, etc.,

B. Franklin.

1782] Benjamin Franklin 187

ML VIII

TO ROBERT MORRIS

Passy, 8 April, 1782.

Sir:— The bills accepted by Mr. Jay, and after-
wards protested for non-payment, are come and com-
ing back to France and Holland, and I have ordered
them to be taken up and discharged by our banker;
I hope none will be returned to America.

There is a convoy just going, and another, it is
said, will follow in about three weeks ; by these two I
hope the best part if not all our goods will be got out.
Since my last, of the 30th past, we hear that the
old ministry are all out to a man, and that the new
ministry have kissed hands, and were about to enter
upon their respective fimctions; as yet we know no-
thing of their projects. They are all of them men
who have in Parliament declared strongly against the
American war, as unjust. Their predecessors made
various separate and private essays to dispose us to
quit France, and France to forsake us, but met with
no encouragement. Before our friend, the Marquis,
sails, we shall probably receive some interesting in-
formation, which I will take care to forward to you.
Our public affairs go on swimmingly in Holland,
and a treaty will probably soon be entered into be-
tween the two republics. I wish I could give you as
good news of our private business; Mr. Barclay is
still detained by it, and I am deprived of his assist-
ance here.

This will be delivered to you by M. le Prince de

i88 The Works of [1782

Broglie, who goes over to join the army of M. de
Rochambeau. He bears an excellent character, is
fond of America and its glorious cause, and will have
great satisfaction in fighting for the establishment of
liberty. I recommend him earnestly to those civili-
ties which I know you have a pleasure in showing to
strangers of merit and distinction.

Your two fine boys continue well. They dine with
me every Sunday, being at school in my neighbor-
hood. I am, etc.,

B. Franklin.

MLIX

TO HENRY LAURENS

Passy, 12 April, 1782.

Sir: — I should sooner have paid my respects to
you by letter, if I had not till lately expected you
here, as I understood it to be your intention. Your
enlargement gave me great pleasure, and I hope that
the terms exacted by the late ministry will now be
relaxed, especially when they are informed that you
are one of the commissioners appointed to treat of
peace. Herewith I send you a copy of the commis-
sion ; the purport of which you can communicate to
the ministers, if you find it proper. If they are dis-
posed to make peace with us and our allies at the
same time, I will, on notice from you, send to Mr.
Jay, to prepare for meeting at such time and place
as shall be agreed on.

As to our treating separately, and quitting our

1782I Benjamin Franklin 189

present alliance, which the late ministry seemed to
desire, it is impossible. Our treaties and our in-
structions, as well as the honor and interest of our
country, forbid it. I will communicate those in-
structions to you as soon as I have the pleasure of
seeing you. If you have occasion for money, please
to acquaint me with the svim you desire, and I will
endeavor to supply you. With very great esteem
and respect, I have the honor to be, sir, etc.,

B. Franklin.

MLX

FROM M. DE RAYNEVAL

Versailles, 12 April, 1782.

Sir: — I have laid before the Coimt de Vergennes
the different letters which Mr. Hartley had written
to you, as well as your proposed reply. The minister
has given his entire approbation to the manner in
which you have expressed yourself. I subjoin a
postscript concerning Mr. Forth ' ; the Count de
Vergennes, who has given it a perusal, finds that
you may without impropriety transmit it to your
correspondent. I have the honor to be, sir, with the
most sincere attachment, etc.,

De Rayneval.^"

P. S. — Since my letter was written, sir, I have

I Mr. Forth was a secret agent, sent over to France by the British
ministry, to propose a separate treaty with the French court.
' M. de Rayneval was secretary to the king's council.

I90 The Works of [1782

considered anew the different overtures which it
embraces. In your opinion the late English min-
ister sincerely desired a reconciliation with us, and
proposed with this view a separate peace. At the
time you were transmitting this wish of Lord North
to me, this ex-minister employed an emissary here
to sound the minister of France on the pacific dis-
position of his court, and offer very advantageous
propositions. You will be able to judge from this,
sir, of the opinion which I ought to have of the in-
tention of Lord North and his colleagues. To con-
vince you of the truth of the suggestions which I
communicate, I will confide to you that the emissary
was a Mr. Forth, and that he was charged to reply
to the English minister, "that the King of France is
as desirous of peace as the King of England; and that
he would accede to it as soon as he could with dignity
and safety; but it is a matter of the last importance
for His Most Christian Majesty to know, whether the
court of London is disposed to treat on equal terms with
the allies of France.'' Mr. Forth has set out for Lon-
don with this answer; but it is probable he will not
arrive till after the ministers, who sent him, have
retired from office.

You may, sir, without the least hesitation, make
use of these details, if you judge it expedient. They
will make known to the minister in place the prin-
ciples of the court of France ; and they will convince
him, I hope, that the project of disuniting us will
be as illusory, as it would prove injurious to us.
As to the reply, sent by Mr. Forth, I cannot fore-
see (if the new ministers are instructed on this point)

1782] Benjamin Franklin 191

in what manner they will think they ought to con-
sider it; if they love peace, as they have persuaded
the English nation and all Europe, they need not be
embarrassed. France has opened a way in which
they can, in my opinion, act without wounding the
dignity of their master. If they do not adopt it,
they flatter themselves, without doubt, that the
chances of war will procure for England the success
which has heretofore been denied her; it will be for
Providence to crown or frustrate their hopes.

MLXI

TO ROBERT R. LIVINGSTON

Passy, 12 April, 1782.

Sir: — Being at court on Tuesday, I learned from
the Dutch minister that the new EngHsh ministry
have offered, through the ministers of Russia, a ces-
sation of arms to Holland, and a renewal of the treaty
of 1674. M. de Berkenrode seemed to be of the
opinion that the offer was intended to gain time, to
obstruct the concert of operations with France for
the ensuing campaign, and to prevent the conclusion
of a treaty with America. It is apprehended that it
may have some effect in strengthening the hands of
the English party in that country, and retard affairs
a little ; but it is hoped that the proposal will not be
finally agreed to. It would indeed render the Dutch
ridiculous. A, having a cane in his hand, meets his

192 The Works of [1782

neighbor B, who happens to have none, takes the
advantage, and gives him a sound drubbing. B,
having found a stick, and coming to return the blows
he received, A says: "My old friend, why should
we quarrel? We are neighbors ; let us be good ones,
and live peaceably by each other, as we used to do."
If B is so easily satisfied, and lays aside his stick, the
rest of the neighbors, as well as A, will laugh at him.
This is the light in which I stated it. Enclosed I
send you a copy of the proposition.

I see by the newspapers that the Spaniards, hav-
ing taken a little post called St. Joseph, pretend to
have made a conquest of the Illinois country. In
what light does this proceeding appear to Congress ?
While they decline our offered friendship, are they
to be suffered to encroach on our bounds, and shut
us up within the Appalachian Mountains? I begin
to fear they have some such project.

Having seen in the English prints an article from
Lisbon, that two American ships, under French
colors, being arrived in that port, were seized by the
government, I asked the Portuguese ambassador if
it was true. He said he had no advice of it, as he
certainly should have had if such a thing had hap-
pened; he therefore did not give the least credit to
it, and said we might make ourselves perfectl}^ easy;
no such treatment would in his opinion be offered us
in their ports ; and he further observed, on the false-
hood of English newspapers, their having lately as-
serted that the Congress had issued letters of marque
for cruising against the Portuguese. With great
esteem, etc., B. Franklin.

1782] Benjamin Franklin 193

MLXII

TO MRS. MARY HEWSON

Passy, 13 April, 1782.

My Dear Friend: — I received your kind letter of
the 23d of December. I rejoice always to hear of
your good mother's welfare, though I can write but
seldom, and safe opportunities are scarce. Looking
over some old papers, I find the rough draft of a let-
ter which I wrote to you fifteen months ago, and
which probably miscarried, or your answer mis-
carried, as I never received any. I enclose it, as the
spring is coming on, and the same proposition will
now again be in season, and easily executed, if you
should approve of it.

You mention Mr. Viny's being with you. What is
his present situation ? I think he might do well with
his wheel business in this country. By your news-
papers, Jacob seems to have taken it to himself.
Could he not make up a good coach, with the latest
useful improvements, and bring you all in it? It
would serve here as a specimen of his abilities, if he
chose to stay, or would sell well, if he chose to return.
I hope your mother has got over her lowness of
spirits about the dropsy. It is common for aged
people to have at times swelled ankles towards even-
ing ; but it is a temporary disorder, which goes off of
itself, and has no consequences. My tender love to
her.

If you have an opportunity of sending to Geneva,
I like well enough your sending the books thither for
my godson grandson, who goes on well there. You

194 The Works of [1782

do well to keep my granddaughter without stays.
God bless her and all of you.

You may imagine I begin to grow happy in my
prospects. I should be quite so, if I could see peace
and good will restored between our countries; for I
enjoy health, competence, friends, and reputation.
Peace is the only ingredient wanting to my felicity.
Adieu, my dear friend, and believe me ever yours
most affectionately, B. Franklin.

MLXIII

TO DAVID HARTLEY

Passy, 13 April, 1782.

Dear Sir: — Since mine of the 5th, I have thought
further of the subject of our late letters. You were
of opinion that the ministry desired sincerely a recon-
ciliation with America, and with that view a separate
peace with us was proposed. It happened that at
the same time Lord North had an emissary here to
sound the French ministers with regard to peace, and
to make them very advantageous propositions, in
case they would abandon America. You may judge
from hence, my dear friend, what opinion I must
have formed of the intentions of your ministers. To
convince you of the truth of this, I may acquaint you
that the emissary was a Mr. Forth, and that the an-
swer given him to carry back to the English minis-
ters, was: "that the King of France is as desirous of
peace as the King of England; and that he would ac-
cede to it as soon as he could with dignity and safety;
but it is a matter of the last importance for His Most

1782] Benjamin Franklin 195

Christian Majesty to know, whether the court of Lon-
don is disposed to treat on equal terms with the allies
of France y

Mr. Forth went off with this answer for London,
but probably did not arrive till after the dismission of
the ministers that sent him. You may make any use
of this information which you judge proper. The
new ministry may see by it the principles that govern
this court; and it will convince them, I hope, that
the project of dividing us is as vain as it would be to
us injurious. I cannot judge what they wiU think or
do in consequence of the answer sent by Mr. Forth,
if they have seen it. If they love peace, as they
have persuaded the English nation and all Europe
to believe, they can be under no difficulty. France
has opened a path which, in my opinion, they may
use, without hurting the dignity of their master or
the honor of the nation. If they do not choose it,
they doubtless flatter themselves that a war may
still produce successes in favor of England, that
have hitherto been withheld. The crowning or
frustrating such hopes belongs to Divine Providence;
may God send us all more wisdom! I am ever, my
dear friend, yours most affectionately,

B. Franklin.

MLXIV

TO JOHN ADAMS

Passy, 13 April, 1782.

Sir: — Enclosed with this I send to your Excellency
the packet of correspondence between Mr. Hartley

196 The Works of [1782

and me, which I promised in my last. You will see
that we held nearly the same language, which gives
me pleasure.

While Mr. Hartley was making propositions to me,
with the approbation or privity of Lord North, to
treat separately from France, that minister had an
emissary here, a Mr, Forth, formerly a secretary of
Lord Stormont's, making proposals to induce this
court to treat without us. I understand that several
sacrifices were offered to be made, and, among the
rest, Canada to be given up to France. The sub-
stance of the answer appears in my last letter to Mr.
Hartley. But there is a sentence omitted in that
letter which I much liked, viz., "that whenever the
two crowns should come to treat, His Most Christian
Majesty would show how much the engagements he
might enter into were to he relied on, by his exact
observance of those he already had with his present
allies."

If you have received any thing in consequence of
your answer by Digges, you will oblige me by com-
municating it. The ministers here were much
pleased with the account given them of your inter-
view by the ambassador. With great respect, I am,
sir, etc., B. Franklin.

MLXV

TO DAVID HARTLEY

Paris, 14 April, 1782.

Dear Sir: — ^The bearer having been detained here,
I add this line to suggest that if the new ministry

1782] Benjamin Franklin 197

are disposed to enter into a general treaty of peace,
Mr. Laurens, being set entirely at liberty, may
receive such propositions as they shall think fit to
make relative to time, place, or any other particu-
lars, and come hither with them. He is acquainted
that we have full powers to treat and conclude, and
that the Congress promise in our commission to
ratify and confirm, etc. I am ever yours most
affectionately,

B. Franklin.

MLXVI

TO MRS. STEVENSON AND MRS. HEWSON

Paris, 19 April, 1782.

I wrote to you, my dear friends, very lately, and
directed my letter to Cheam in Surrey. Mr. White-
foord tells me that you are removed to Kensington
Square, and I fear that my letter may therefore not
find you. I sent it under cover to Mr. William
Hodgson, merchant, in Coleman Street; which I
mention, that, in case it has not come to hand, you
may there inquire for it, though it contains little
worth the trouble, as it only expresses what you
always knew, that I love you both very much and
very sincerely.

Mr. Whitefoord will inform you how I live, and
that I am very well, as happy as the situation of
public affairs will permit, only capable of being made
more so, if you were here with me; being ever your
truly affectionate friend, B. Franklin.

198 The Works of [1782

MLXVII

TO JOHN JAY

Passy, 22 April, 1782.

Dear Sir: — I have undertaken to pay all the bills
of your acceptance that have come to my knowledge,
and I hope in God no more will be drawn upon us,
but when funds are first provided. In that case, your
constant residence at Madrid is no longer so neces-
sary. You may make a journey, either for health
or pleasure, without retarding the progress of a nego-
tiation not yet begun. Here you are greatly wanted,
for messengers begin to come and go, and there is
much talk of a treaty proposed; but I can neither
make, nor agree to propositions of peace, without the
assistance of my colleagues. Mr. Adams, I am
afraid, cannot just now leave Holland. Mr. Jeffer-
son is not in Europe, and Mr. Laurens is a prisoner,
though abroad upon parole. I wish, therefore, that
you would resolve upon the journey, and render
yoiirself here as soon as possible. You would be
of infinite service. Spain has taken four years to
consider whether she should treat with us or not.
Give her forty, and let us in the meantime mind our
own business. I have much to communicate to
you, but choose rather to do it viva voce than trust
it to letters. I am ever, my dear friend, yours most
affectionately,

B. Franklin.

1782] Benjamin Franklin 199

MLXVIII

TO JOHN JAY

Passy, 24 April, 1782.

Dear Sir:— The Prince de Masaran being so good
as to desire carrying a letter to you, I sit down to
write you a few lines, though I hope soon to see you.
Enclosed I send a copy of one of Mr. Deane's letters;
I shall show you more when you come.

In consequence of a proposition I sent over, the
Parliament of Britain have just passed an act for
exchanging American prisoners. They have near
eleven hundred in the jails of England and Ireland,
all committed as charged with high treason. The
act is to empower the king, notwithstanding such
commitments, to consider them as prisoners of war,
according to the law of nations, and exchange them
as such. This seems to be giving up their preten-
sions of considering us as rebelHous subjects, and
is a kind of acknowledgment of our independence.
Transports are now taking up, to carry back to their
country the poor, brave fellows, who have borne for
years their cruel captivity, rather than serve our
enemies, and an equal number of English are to be
delivered up in return. I have, upon desire, fur-
nished passports for the vessels.

Our affairs in Holland are en hon train; we have
some prospect of another loan there; and all goes
well here.

The proposal to us of a separate peace with Eng-
land has been rejected in the manner you wish,
and I am pretty certain they will now enter into a

200 The Works of [1782

general treaty. I wrote you a few lines by last post,
and on the same day a few more by the court courier.
They were chiefly to press your coming hither to
assist in the affair. With great and sincere esteem,
I am ever, dear sir, etc.,

B. Franklin.

MLXIX

FROM DAVID HARTLEY

London, i May, 1782.

My Dear Friend: — I have received a packet from
you containing several letters of various dates. As
I shall probably have a safe opportunity of convey-
ance to you when Mr. Laurens leaves this country, I
am now sitting down to write to you an omnium
kind of letter of various matters as they occur. The
late ministry being departed, I may now speak of
things more freely. I will take a sentence in one of
your letters for my text. Vide yours of April 13,
1782, in which you say, you were of opinion that the
late ministry desired sincerely a reconciliation with
America, and with that view a separate peace with us
was proposed. I must qualify this sentence much
before I can adopt it as my opinion. As to recon-
ciliation, I never gave much credit to them for that
wish. It is a sweet expression. It certainly means
more than peace. The utmost that I ever gave the
late ministry credit for, was a wish for peace. And
I still believe that the wisest among them grew from
day to day more disposed to peace, or an abatement

1782] Benjamin Franklin 201

of the war, in proportion as they became more
alarmed for their own situations and their responsi-
bility. Had the war been more successful, I should
not have expected much relenting towards peace or
reconciliation. That this has always been the meas-
ure of my opinion of them, I refer you to some words
in a letter from me to you, dated January 5, 1780,
for proof: "But for the point of sincerity; why, as
to that, I have not much to say; I have at least ex-
pected some hold upon their prudence."

My argimient runs thus, it is a bargain for you
(ministers) to be sincere now. Common prudence
may hint to you to look to yourselves. It has
amazed me beyond measure, that this principle of
common selfish prudence has not had the effect which
I expected. I have not been disposed to be de-
ceived by any conciliatory professions, which I con-
sidered only as arising from prudence; and I hope
that I have not led you into any deception, having
so fully explained myself to you on that head. Had
the American war been more prosperous on the part
of the late ministry, I do not believe the late resigna-
tion would have taken place. But it is evident,
from the proposition to the court of France, which
you have communicated to me (and which I have
communicated to the present ministry with your
letter), that even to the last hour some part of the
late ministry were still set upon the American war
to the last extremity; and probably another more
prudent part of the ministry would proceed no fur-
ther; which, if it be so, may reasonably be imputed
as the cause of the dissolution of the late ministry.

202 The Works of [1782

These have been the arguments, which I have
always driven and insisted upon with the greatest
expectation of success, viz., prudential arguments
from the total impracticability of the war, responsi-
bility, etc. I have been astonished beyond measure
that these arguments have not sooner had their
effect. If I could give you an idea of the many con-
ferences which I have had upon the subject, I should
tell you that many times Felix has trembled. When
reduced by the terror of responsibility either to re-
nounce the American war, or to relinquish their
places, they have chosen the latter; which is a most
wretched and contemptible retribution, either to
their country or to mankind, for the desolation in
which they have involved every nation that they
have ever been connected with. Peace they would
not leave behind them. Their legacy to their coun-
try and to mankind has been. Let darkness be the
burier of the dead!

As to the proposal of a separate peace arising
from a desire of reconciliation, it certainly was so on
the part of the people of England; but, on the part
of the late ministry, it probably arose from the hopes
of suggesting to France ideas of some infidelity on
the part of America towards them. If you should
ask me why I have seemed to conspire with this, my
answer is very plain. In the first place, if I could
have prevailed with the late ministry to have actu-
ally made an irrevocable offer, on their own part, of
a separate peace to America, that very offer would
in the same instant have become on their part also
a consent to a general peace ; because they never had

1782] Benjamin Franklin 203

any wish to a separate contest with France, and,
America being out of the question, they would have
thought of nothing after that but general peace. I
never could bring them even to this. They wished
that America should make the offer of a separate
treaty, for obvious views. My proposal was, that
they should offer irrevocable terms of peace to Amer-
ica. If they had meant what they pretended, and
what the people of England did really desire, they
would have adopted that proposition. Then the
question would have come forward upon the fair
and honorable construction of a treaty between
France and America, the essential and direct end of
which was fully accomplished. When I speak of
Great Britain offering irrevocable terms of peace to
America, I mean such terms as would have effectu-
ally satisfied the provision of the treaty, viz., tacit
independence.

I send you a paper entitled a Breviate,^ which
I laid before the late ministry ; and their not having
acted upon it, was a proof to me that the disposition
of their heart to America was not altered, but that
all their relenting arose from the impracticability
of that war, and their want of success in it. But,
desponding as they were at last, it was not incon-
sistent with my expectations of their conduct that
they should make great offers to France to abandon
America. It was the only weapon left in their hands.
In course of negotiating with the late ministry, I
perceived their courage drooping from time to time,
for the last three or four years ; and it was upon that

* See this ' ' B re viate " in the Diplomatic Correspondence , Vol .III. ,9.351.

204 The Works of [1782

ground I gave them credit for an increasing disposi-
tion towards peace. Some dropped off, others sunk
under the load of folly, and at last they all failed.
My argument ad homines to the late ministry might
be stated thus: "// you don't kill them, they will kill
you. But the war is impracticable on your part;
ergo, the best thing you can do for your own sake is
to make peace.'' This was reasoning to men, and
through men to things. But there is no measure
of rage in pride and disappointment ;

" Spicula caeca relinquunt
Infixa venis, animasque in vulnere ponunt."

So much for the argument of the hreviate, as far as
it respected the late ministry. It was a test which
proved that they were not sincere in their professions.
If they had been in earnest to have given the war a
turn towards the House of Bourbon, and to have
dropped the American war, a plain road lay before
them. The sentiments of the people of England
were conformable to the argument of that breviate ;
or rather I should say, what is the real truth, that
the arguments of the breviate were dictated by the
notoriety of that sentiment in the people of England.
My object and wish always have been to strike at
the root of the evil, the American war.

If the British nation have jealousies and resent-
ments against the House of Bourbon, yet still the
first step in every case would be to rescind the Amer-
ican war, and not to keep it lurking in the rear, to
become hereafter, in case of certain events, a re-
versionary war with America for unconditional

1782] Benjamin Franklin 205

terms. This reversionary war was never the object
of the people of England; therefore the argument
of the breviate was calculated bona fide to accom-
plish their views, and to discriminate the fallacious
pretences of the late administration from the real
wishes of the country, as expressed in the circular
resolution of many coimties in the year 1780, first
moved at York, on March 28, 1780. Every other
principle and every other mode of conduct only im-
ply, as you very justly express it, a secret hope that

war may still produce successes, and then . The

designs which have been lurking tinder this pretext
could not mean any thing else than this : Who knows
but that we may still talk to America at last ? The
only test of clear intentions would have been this:
to have cut up the American war, and all possible
return to it for any cause, or under any pretext. I
am confident that the sentiment of the people of
England is, and always has been, to procure peace
and reconciliation with America, and to vindicate
the national honor in the contest with the House
of Bourbon. If this intention had been pursued
in a simple and direct manner, I am confident that
the honor and safety of the British nation would
long ago have been established in a general peace
with all the belligerent powers. These are the sen-
timents upon which I have always acted in those
negotiations which I have had upon the subject of
peace with the late ministry; reconciliation with
America, and peace with all the world, upon terms
consistent with the honor and safety of my own
country.

2o6 The Works of [1782

Peace must be sought in such ways as promise
the greatest degree of practicability. The senti-
ments of individuals as philanthropists may be over-
borne by the power of ancient prejudices, which too
frequently prevail in the aggregates of nations. In
such case, the philanthropist, who wishes the good
of his own country and of mankind, must be the
bulrush bending to the storm, and not the sturdy
oak, unavailingly resisting. National prejudices are,
I hope, generally upon the decline. Reason and hu-
manity gain ground every day against their natural
enemies, folly and injustice. The ideas of nations
being natural enemies to each other are generally
reprobated. But still, jealousies and ancient rival-
ships remain, which obstruct the road to peace among
men. If one belligerent nation will entertain a
standing force of three or four hundred thousand
fighting men, other nations must have defended
frontiers and barrier towns, and the barrier of a
neighboring island, whose constitution does not
allow a standing military force, must consist in a
superiority at sea. It is necessary for her own de-
fence. If all nations by mutual consent will reduce
their offensive powers, which they only claim under
the pretext of necessary defence, and bring forward
the reign of the millennium, then away with your
frontiers, and your Gibraltars, and the key of the
Baltic, and all the hostile array of nations,

" Aspera compositis mitescant saecula bellis."

These must be the sentiments of every philanthropist
in his interior thoughts. But, if we are not to seek

1782] Benjamin Franklin 207

peace by some practicable method, accommodated
to the remaining prejudices of the miiltitude, we
shall not in our own time, I fear, see that happy day.
If Great Britain and France are ancient rivals, then,
until the reign of the millennium shall approach,
arrange that rivalship upon equitable terms; as the
two leading nations of Europe, set them in balance
to each other, the one by land, the other by sea.
Give to France her elevated rank among the nations
of Europe; give to Great Britain the honor of her
flag, and the security of her island by her wooden
walls ; and there would be no obstruction to general
and perpetual peace. The prejudices of disrespect
between nations prevail only among the inferior
ranks. Believe me, for one at least, I have the
highest sentiments of respect for the nation of France.
I have no other sentiments of hostility but what are
honorable towards them, and which, as a member
of a rival state at war with them, consists in the
duty of vigilance, which I owe towards the honor
and interests of my own country. I am not con-
scious of a word or thought which, on the point of
honor, I would wish to have concealed from a French
minister.

In the mode, which I have proposed, of unravel-
ling the present subjects of jealousy and contest, I
would make my proposals openly to France herself.
Let America be free, and enjoy happiness and peace
for ever. If France and Great Britain have jeal-
ousies or rivalships between themselves, as European
nations, I then say to France: "Let us settle these
points between ourselves, if, imfortunately, we shall

2o8 The Works of [1782

not be able by honorable negotiation to compro-
mise the indispensable points of national honor and
safety." This would be my language to France,
open and undisguised. In the meanwhile, I desire
you to observe that it would not be with reluctance
that I should offer eternal freedom, happiness, and
peace to America. You know my thoughts too well
to suspect that. I speak only as in a state of war,
desirous to arrange the complicated interests, and
to secure the respective honor, of nations. My
wishes are, and always have been, for the peace, lib-
erty, and safety of mankind. In the pursuit of those
blessed objects, not only this country and America,
but France herself and the House of Bourbon, may
justly claim the conspiring exertions of every free
and liberal mind, even among their temporary
enemies and rivals. I am, etc.,

D. Hartley.

MLXX

TO M. DUMAS

Passy, 3 May, 1782.

Dear Sir: — I received yours of the 15th past, and
perused the contents with great pleasure. I had
before received your pacquet by Mrs. Boers, and
forwarded it immediately. Enclosed I send you a
few copies of a paper that places in a striking light,
the English barbarities in America, particularly
those committed by the savages at their instigation.
The Form may perhaps not be genuine, but the
substance is truth; the number of our people of all

1782] Benjamin Franklin 209

kinds and ages, murdered and scalped by them being
known to exceed that of the invoice. Make any use
of them you may think proper to shame your Anglo-
manes, but do not let it be known through what
hands they come. I am ever,

Yours affectionately,

B. Franklin.

My respects and congratulations to Mr. A.

MLXXI

TO A FRIEND

Passy, 8 May, 1782.

Sir: — I received the letter you did me the honor
of writing me, and am much obliged by your kind
present of a book. The relish for reading poetry
had long since left me; but there is something so
new in the manner, so easy and yet so correct in the
language, so clear in the expression, yet concise, and
so just in the sentiments, that I have read the whole
with great pleasure, and some of the pieces more
than once. I beg you to accept my thankful ac-
knowledgments, and to present my respects to the
author.

I shall take care to forward the letters to Amer-
ica, and shall be glad of any other opportunity of
doing what may be agreeable to you, being, with
great respect for your character, your most obedient
humble servant, B. Franklin.^

' Cowper seems to have been much gratified with the compHment
contained in this letter, which was communicated to him by the person
to whom it had been written. Cowper forwarded a copy of it to Mr.

VOL. IX. — 14.

2IO The Works of [1782

MLXXII

FROM ROBERT R. LIVINGSTON

Philadelphia, 22 May, 1782.

Dear Sir: — I expected to have written you a
long letter, more particularly as it is some time since
you have received any information from this coun-
try, the enemy having effectually blocked up our
ports for some months past. But I find myself so
extremely hurried that I have hardly leisure to write
this, the vessel by which it is sent going sooner than
I apprehended.

You will receive herewith a letter to his most
Christian Majesty, which you will present, and a
copy, which you will be pleased to deliver to the
Count de Vergennes. This, I believe, is the usual
form. You will also receive in the enclosed papers
an account of the marks of respect with which the
annunciation of the birth of the Dauphin was re-
ceived. These are of some importance at a time
when Great Britain is endeavoring to represent us
as weary of the alliance, and anxiously wishing to

Unwin, and said: "A merchant, a friend of ours, sent my poems to
one of the first philosophers, one of the most eminent Hterary charac-
ters, as well as one of the most important in the political world that
the present age can boast of. Now perhaps your conjecturing facil-
ities are puzzled, and you begin to ask: ' Who, where, and what is he ?
Speak out, for I am all impatience.' I will not say a word more; the
letter in which he returned his thanks shall speak for me."

He then inserts the letter, and adds: " We may now treat the critics
as the Archbishop of Toledo treated Gil Bias when he found fault with
one of his sermons. His Grace gave him a kick, and said : ' Begone for a
jackanapes, and furnish yotirself with a better taste, if you know where
to find it.' " — Southey's edition of Cowper's Works, Vol. IV., p. 217.

1782] Benjamin Franklin 211

return to our connection with them. It is probable
that the late changes in the British administration,
and the conciliatory measures they propose, may
excite apprehensions of our firmness. I have the
pleasure of assuring you that it has not produced the
least effect; all orders of people seem to agree that
it should redouble your vigilance, and while it argues
the weakness of the enemy, it serves as a spring to
our exertions.

Sir Guy Carle ton, shortly after his arrival, wrote a
complimentary letter to General Washington, send-
ing him an account of his appointment and the
prints which contained the parhamentary debates,
and requesting leave to send his secretary with de-
spatches to Congress. The General refused the pass-
port till he had the sense of Congress thereon, and,
upon Sir Guy's letter being laid before them, they
came to the resolution enclosed.

The papers I send you contain also resolutions of
the State of Maryland and of the Executive Council
of Pennsylvania, which, I believe, speak the language
of all the States, which will, I doubt not, make simi-
lar declarations when their legislatures shall be con-
vened. So that you may safely assure his Majesty's
ministers that no art which Great Britain can put
in practice will have the least influence in lessening
the attachment of the people of this country to the
principles of the alliance. It is true their expecta-
tions of powerful assistance this campaign are very
high. They saw with some pain last year that the
fleet was withdrawn when the enemy were absolutely
at their feet, and when one month's stay would have

212 The Works of [1782

reduced either New York or Charleston. They look
eagerly for the return of the fleet. They generally
believe this to be the last campaign in America.
There is no knowing what effect a disappointment in
this hope would have. I believe, from the present
view of things, that they would bear it with forti-
tude ; but I should be sorry to see it put to the trial.

Our trade has suffered astonishingly of late; the
influence which this will have upon our internal
resources is much to be apprehended. It is to be
wished that France would see the great advantages
she would derive from keeping a superiority on this
coast, where her fleets would be maintained cheaply,
while they protected our commerce, and compelled
England either to risk her army or to keep a regular
fleet here at five times their expense. Enclosed is a
statement of our trade, drawn up by Mr. Morris.
You are requested to communicate this to the court
of Versailles, and to use every means in your power
to bring the court to concur in adopting it.

I also enclose a resolution of Congress to request
you to apply for the prisoners due to us, in order
that they may be sent here and exchanged for our
seamen, who are confined without the hope of relief.
Is it impossible to devise some means for the en-
largement of those who are confined in England?
Can no cartel be settled, or no means devised for
sending them here to be exchanged? Their case is
really pitiable. I have the honor to be, etc.,

Robert R. Livingston.

1782] Benjamin Franklin 213

MLXXIII

TO MRS. MARY HEWSON

Passy, Jtine, 1782.

I send you a few of your translations. I did not
put your name as the translator (which I at first
intended), because I apprehend it might look like
vanity in you; and, as I shall otherwise make it
known, I think the omitting it will look like modesty.

Present my sincere love to your mother. Nothing
would give me greater pleasure than to see you both
once more, well and happy. But you, who are truly
sagacious and honest, and can give good advice,
tell me frankly your sentiments, whether, in case
of peace, it will be prudent in me to visit England
before I return to America. I have no other call
there, but the pleasure of seeing my friends, of whom
I must again soon take leave; and my appearing
may perhaps exasperate my enemies. If you think
this not of serious consequence, tell me whether I
may come right through London to Kensington,
with the view of finding room in your house; or
whether I shall take a lodging in the city to return
to. Do not let me in the least incommode you.

I forget whether I ever acknowledged the receipt
of the prints of Mr. Hewson. I have one of them
framed in my study. I think it very like. I be-
lieve I acquainted you with good Mr. Dubourg's
death. He had enlarged his little piece, which you
translated; and, in respect for his memory, I have
had it printed. I enclose a copy.

I am sorry to learn the still unsettled state of Mr.

214 The Works of [1782
's family. Mrs. is undoubtedly well

qualified to teach English here, but I cannot think
it would be worth her while to come hither for that
purpose. It is true that our language is in vogue
here, and many learn a little of it, but the instruc-
tors are poorly paid, and the employ precarious and
uncertain ; this observation is so general, as to have
given rise to a proverb, Pauvre comme un mattre de
langues. Your affectionate friend,

B. Franklin.

MLXXIV

TO JOSEPH PRIESTLEY

Passy, 7 June, 1782.

Dear Sir: — I received your kind letter of the 7th
of April, also one of the 3d of May. I have always
great pleasure in hearing from you, in learning that
you are well, and that you continue your experi-
ments. I should rejoice much if I could once more
recover the leisure to search with you into the works
of nature ; I mean the inanimate, not the animate or
moral part of them; the more I discovered of the
former, the more I admired them ; the more I know
of the latter, the more I am disgusted with them.
Men I find to be a sort of beings very badly con-
structed, as they are generally more easily provoked
than reconciled, m^ore disposed to do mischief to each
other than to make reparation, much more easily
deceived than undeceived, and having more pride

1782] Benjamin Franklin 215

and even pleasure in killing than in begetting one
another ; for without a blush they assemble in great
armies at noonday to destroy, and when they have
killed as many as they can, they exaggerate the
nimiber to augment the fancied glory; but they
creep into comers, or cover themselves with the
darkness of night, when they mean to beget, as being
ashamed of a virtuous action. A virtuous action it
would be, and a vicious one the kilHng of them, if
the species were really worth producing or preserv-
ing; but of this I begin to doubt.

I know you have no such doubts, because, in your
zeal for their welfare, you are taking a great deal of
pains to save their souls. Perhaps, as you grow
older, you may look upon this as a hopeless project,
or an idle amusement, repent of having murdered in
mephitic air so many honest, harmless mice, and
wish that, to prevent mischief, you had used boys
and girls instead of them. In what light we are
viewed by superior beings, may be gathered from a
piece of late West India news, which possibly has
not yet reached you. A young angel of distinction
being sent down to this world on some business, for
the first time, had an old courier-spirit assigned him
as a guide. They arrived over the seas of Martinico,
in the middle of the long day of obstinate fight be-
tween the fleets of Rodney and De Grasse. When,
through the clouds of smoke, he saw the fire of the
guns, the decks covered with mangled limbs and
bodies dead or dying; the ships sinking, burning, or
blown into the air ; and the quantity of pain, misery,
and destruction the crews yet alive were thus with

2i6 The Works of [1782

so much eagerness deaUng round to one another, he
turned angrily to his guide and said: "You blunder-
ing blockhead, you are ignorant of your business;
you undertook to conduct me to the earth, and you
have brought me into hell!" "No, sir," says the
guide, "I have made no mistake; this is really the
earth, and these are men. Devils never treat one
another in this cruel manner ; they have more sense,
and more of what men (vainly) call humanity."

But to be serious, my dear old friend, I love you
as much as ever, and I love all the honest souls that
meet at the London Coffee-House. I only wonder
how it happened that they and my other friends in
England came to be such good creatures in the midst
of so perverse a generation. I long to see them and
you once more, and I labor for peace with more ear-
nestness, that I may again be happy in your sweet
society.

I showed your letter to the Duke de Larochefou-
cauld, who thinks with me, that the new experiments
you have made are extremely curious, and he has
given me thereupon a note, which I enclose, and I
request you would furnish me with the answer
desired.

Yesterday the Count du Nord ' was at the Acad-
emy of Sciences, when sundry experiments were ex-
hibited for his entertainment; among them one by
M. Lavoisier, to show that the strongest fire we yet
know is made in a charcoal blown upon with dephlo-
gisticated air. In a heat so produced he melted
platina presently, the fire being much more powerful

^ The Grand Duke of Russia, afterwards Emperor Paid First.

1782] Benjamin Franklin 217

than that of the strongest burning mirror. Adieu,
and believe me ever yours most affectionately,

B. Franklin.

MLXXV

TO DR. SHIPLEY, BISHOP OF ST. ASAPH

Passy, 10 June, 1782.

I received and read the letter from my dear and
much respected friend with infinite pleasure. After
so long a silence, and the long continuance of its un-
forttmate causes, a line from you was a prognostic of
happier times approaching, when we may converse
and communicate freely, without danger from the
malevolence of men enraged by the ill success of
their distracted projects.

I long with you for the return of peace, on the
general principles of humanity. The hope of being
able to pass a few more of my last days happily in
the sweet conversation and company I once enjoyed
at Twyford,^ is a particular motive that adds strength
to the general wish, and quickens my industry to
procure that best of blessings. After much occasion
to consider the folly and mischiefs of a state of war-
fare, and the little or no advantage obtained even
by those nations who have conducted it with the
most success, I have been apt to think that there has
never been, nor ever will be, any such thing as a
war, or a had peace.

^The country residence of the Bishop.

2i8 The Works of [1782

You ask if I still relish my old studies. I relish
them, but I cannot pursue them. My time is en-
grossed unhappily with other concerns. I requested
of the Congress last year my discharge from this
public station, that I might enjoy a little leisiu-e in
the evening of a long life of business; but it was
refused me, and I have been obliged to drudge on a
little longer.

You are happy, as your years come on, in having
that dear and most amiable family about you. Four
daughters! how rich! I have but one, and she
necessarily detained from me at a thousand leagues'
distance. I feel the want of that tender care of me
which might be expected from a daughter, and would
give the world for one. Your shades are all placed
in a row over my fireplace, so that I not only have
you always in my mind, but constantly before my
eyes.

The cause of liberty and America has been greatly
obliged to you. I hope you will live long to see that
country flourish under its new constitution, which I
am sure will give you great pleasure. Will you per-
mit me to express another hope, that, now your
friends are in power, they will take the first oppor-
tunity of showing the sense they ought to have of
your virtues and your merit ?

Please to make my best respects acceptable to
Mrs. Shipley, and embrace for me tenderly all our
dear children. With the utmost esteem, respect,
and veneration, I am ever, my dear friend, yours
most affectionately,

B. Franklin.

1782] Benjamin Franklin 219

MLXXVI

TO MRS. MARY HEWSON

Passy, 13 Jtrne, 1782.

My Dear Child: — I received your pleasing letter
of the I St of May, through the hands of Mr. Hodg-
son, and one since by Mr. Oswald. You cannot be
more pleased in talking about your children, your
methods of instructing them, and the progress they
make, than I am in hearing it, and in finding that,
instead of following the idle amusements, which both
your fortune and the custom of the age might have
led you into, your delight and your duty go together,
by employing your time in the education of your
offspring. This is following nature and reason, in-
stead of fashion; than which nothing is more be-
coming the character of a woman of sense and virtue.

We have here a female writer on education, who
has lately published three volumes that are much
talked of. I will send them to you by the first
opportunity. They are much praised and much
censured. The author, Madame la Comtesse de
Genlis, is made, in consequence of her writing that
work, governess of the children of the Due de Char-
tres, who is son of the Dtike of Orleans. Perhaps
you may not find much in it, that can be of use to
you, but you may find something.

I enclose another piece on the same subject, writ-
ten by another Comtesse, Madame de Forbach, who
does me the honor of calling me her friend, by which
means I have a copy, it not being published. When
you have leisure, I shall like to see your remarks.

2ao The Works of [1782

Do not send my books to Geneva. The troubles
of that city have driven the school and my boy out
of it, and I have thought of sending for him home.
Perhaps I may put him for a while under your care,
to recover his English in the same school with your
sons.

I hope with you that there may be a peace, and
that we may once more meet. Remember me kindly
to Mr. and Mrs. Viny. I do not at present want a
carriage. Embrace your good mother for me with
much affection, and believe me to be, my dear friend,
yours ever,

B. Franklin.

MLXXVII

TO RICHARD PRICE

Passy, 13 Jime, 1782.

Dear Sir: — I received a few days since your kind
letter of the 27th past by Messrs. Milford & Brown.
It gave me great pleasure to hear of your welfare.
All that come with a line from you are welcome.

I congratulate you on the late revolution in your
public affairs. Much good may arise from it, though
possibly not all that good men and even the new
ministers themselves may have wished or expected.
The change, however, in the sentiments of the nation,
in which I see evident effects of your writings, with
those of our deceased friend, Mr. Burgh,' and others

I "The death of this amiable and excellent person had happened a
few weeks before the writing of this letter. He had long been the

1782] Benjamin Franklin 221

of our valuable Club, should encourage you to
proceed.

The ancient Roman and Greek orators could only
speak to the number of citizens capable of being
assembled within the reach of their voice. Their
writings had little effect, because the bulk of the
people could not read. Now by the press we can
speak to nations, and good books and well written
pamphlets have great and general influence. The
facility with which the same truths may be repeat-
edly enforced by placing them daily in different
lights in newspapers, which are everywhere read,
gives a great chance of establishing them. And we
now find that it is not only right to strike while the
iron is hot, but that it may be very practicable to
heat it by continually striking.

I suppose all may now correspond with more free-
dom, and I shall be glad to hear from you as often
as may be convenient to you. Please to present my
best respects to our good old friends of the London
Coffee-House. I often figure to myself the pleasure
I shoiild have in being once more seated among them.
With the greatest and most sincere esteem and affec-
tion, I am, my dear friend, yours ever,

B. Franklin.

intimate friend of Dr. Price, and one of the principal members of his
congregation at Newington Green. He was the author of several
valuable works on moral and political subjects, and in all of them
proved himself the steadfast friend of virtue and liberty. His last
publication, tmder the title of Political Disquisitions, abounds with
the most important information on the extreme defectiveness of the
national representation, and cannot fail to be admired by all who wish
to restore the constitution to its original purity." — Morgan's Life of
Price, p. 96.

222 The Works of [1782

MLXXVIII

FROM JOHN ADAMS

The Hague, 13 Jtine, 1782.

Sir: — I had yesterday, at Amsterdam, the honor
of receiving your Excellency's letter of June the 2d.

The discovery that Mr. Grenville's power was only
to treat with France, does not surprise me at all.
The British ministry are too divided among them-
selves, and have too formidable an opposition against
them in the king and the old ministers, and are
possessed of too little of the confidence of the nation,
to have courage to make concessions of any sort,
especially since the news of their successes in the
East and West Indies. What their vanity will end
in, God only knows; for my own part I cannot see
a probability that they will ever make peace tintil
their finances are ruined and such distresses brought
upon them as will work up their parties into a civil
war.

I wish their enemies could by any means be per-
suaded to carry on the war against them in places
where they might be sure of triumphs, instead of
insisting on pursuing it where they are sure of defeat.
But we must take patience, and wait for time to do
what wisdom might easily and soon do.

I have not as yet taken any engagements with the
Dutch not to make peace without them; but I will
take such engagements in a moment if the Dutch
will take them, and I believe they would very cheer-
fully. I shall not propose it, however, till I have
the concurrence of the Due de la Vauguyon, who will

1782] Benjamin Franklin 223

do nothing without the instructions of his court. I
would not delay it for a moment from any expecta-
tion that the English will acknowledge our indepen-
dence and make peace with us, because I have no
such expectations. The permanent friendship of
the Dutch may be easily obtained by the United
States ; that of England, never ; it is gone with the
days before the flood. If we ever enjoy the smallest
degree of sincere friendship again from England,
I am totally incapable of seeing the character of a
nation or the connection of things ; which, however,
may be the case for what I know. They have
brought themselves into such a situation! Spain,
Holland, America, the armed neutrality, have all
such pretensions and demands upon them, that
where is the English minister, or member of Parlia-
ment, that dares vote for the concession to them?
The pretensions of France I believe would be so
moderate that possibly they might be acceded to.
But it is much to be feared that Spain, who deserves
the least, will demand the most ; in short, the work
of peace appears so impracticable and chimerical,
that I am happy in being restrained to this coun-
try by my duty, and by this means excused from
troubling my head much about it.

I have a letter from America that informed me
that Mr. Jay had refused to act in the commission
for peace; but if he is on the way to Paris, as you
suppose, I presume my information must be a mis-
take, which I am very glad of. Mr. Laurens did me
the honor of a very short visit in his way to France ;
but I was very sorry to learn from him that, in a

2 24 The Works of [1782

letter to your Excellency from Ostend, he had de-
clined serving in the commission for peace. I had
vast pleasure in his conversation; for I found him
possessed of the most exact judgment concerning our
enemies, and of the same noble sentiments in all
things which I saw in him in Congress.

What is the system of Russia? Does she suppose
that England has too many enemies upon her, and
that their demands and pretensions are too high?
Does she seek to embroil affairs, and to light up a
general war in Europe? Is Denmark in concert
with her, or any other power? Her conduct is a
phenomenon. Is there any secret negotiation or in-
trigue on foot to form a party for England among the
powers of Europe, and to make a balance against
the power of the enemies of England?

The States of Holland and several other provinces
have taken a resolution against the mediation for a
separate peace; and this nation seems to be well
fixed in its system and in the common cause.

My best respects and affections to my old friend,
Mr. Jay, if you please, I have the honor to be, sir, etc.,

John Adams.

MLXXIX

TO JOHN INGENHOUSZ

Passy, 21 Jtme, 1782.

Dear Sir: — I am sorry that any misunderstand-
ing should arise between you and Dr. . The

indiscretions of friends on both sides often occasion

1782] Benjamin Franklin 225

such misunderstandings. When they produce pub-
lic altercations, the ignorant are diverted at the
expense of the learned. I hope, therefore, that you
will omit the polemic piece in your French edition,
and take no public notice of the improper behavior
of your friend, but go on with your excellent experi-
ments, produce facts, improve science, and do good
to mankind. Reputation will follow, and the little
injustices of contemporary laborers will be forgotten ;
my example may encourage you, or else I should
not mention it. You know that when my papers
were first published, the Abbe Nolle t, then high in
reputation, attacked them in a book of letters. An
answer was expected from me, but I made none to
that book, nor to any other. They are now all neg-
lected, and the truth seems to be established. You
can always employ your time better than in polemics.

M. Lavoisier the other day showed an experiment
at the Academy of Sciences, to the Count du Nord,
that is said to be curious. He kindled a hollow char-
coal, and blew into it a stream of dephlogisticated
air. In this focus, which is said to be the hottest
fire human art has yet been able to produce, he
melted platina in a few minutes.

Our American affairs wear a better aspect now
than at any time heretofore. Our counsels are per-
fectly united; our people all armed and disciplined.
Much and frequent service as militia has indeed
made them soldiers. Our enemies are much dimin-
ished, and reduced to two or three garrisons. Our
commerce and agriculture flourish. England at
length sees the difficulty of conquering us, and no

226 The Works of [1782

longer demands submission, but asks for peace. She
would now think herself happy to obtain a federal
union with us, and will endeavor it; but, perhaps,
will be disappointed, as it is the interest of all Europe
to prevent it. I last year requested of Congress to
release me from this service, that I might spend the
evening of life more agreeably in philosophic leisure ;
but I was refused. If I had succeeded, it was my
intention to make the tour of Italy with my grand-
son, pass into Germany, and spend some time hap-
pily with you, whom I have always loved, ever since
I knew you, with uninterrupted affection.

We have lost our common friend, the excellent
Pringle. How many pleasing hours you and I have
passed together in his company! I must soon follow
him, being now in my seventy-seventh year; but
you have yet a prospect of many years of usefulness
still before you, which I hope you will fully enjoy;
and I am persuaded you will ever kindly remember

your truly affectionate friend,

B. Franklin.

MLXXX

TO MISS ALEXANDER

Passy, Jvne, 1782.

I am not at all displeased that the thesis and
dedication with which we were threatened are blown
over, for I dislike much all sorts of mummery. The
republic of letters has gained no reputation, whatever

1782] Benjamin Franklin 227

else it may have gained, by the commerce of dedica-
tion. I never made one and I never desired that
one should be made to me. When I submitted to
receive this, it was from the bad habit I have long
had of doing every thing that ladies desire me to do;
there is no refusing any thing to Madame La Mark,
nor to you. I have been to pay my respects to that
amiable lady, not merely because it was a comph-
ment due to her, but because I love her; which
induces me to excuse her for not letting me in; the
same reason I should have for excusing your faults,
if you had any.

I have not seen your papa since the receipt of
your pleasing letter, so could arrange nothing with
him respecting the carriage. During seven or eight
days I shall be very busy; after that you shall hear
from me, and the carriage shall be at your service.
How could you think of writing to me about chim-
neys and fires in such weather as this! Now is the
time for the frugal lady you mention to save her
wood, obtain plus de chaleur and lay it up against
winter, as people do ice against summer. Frugality
is an enriching virtue; a virtue I never could acquire
myself; but I was once lucky enough to find it in a
wife, who thereby became a fortune to me. Do you
possess it? If you do, and I were twenty years
younger, I would give your father one thousand
guineas for you. I know you would be worth more
to me as a m^naghe, but I am covetous, and love
good bargains. Adieu, my dear friend, and believe
me ever yours, most affectionately,

B. Franklin.

228 The Works of [1782

MLXXXI

TO JOHN INGENHOUSZ

1. When the subtile fluid, which we call fire or
heat, enters a solid body, it separates the particles
of which that body consists farther from each other,
and thus dilates the body, increasing its dimensions.

2. A greater proportion of fire introduced sepa-
rates the parts so far from each other
that the solid body becomes a fluid, being
melted.

3. A still greater quantity of heat
separates parts so far that they lose their
mutual attraction, and acquire a mutual
repulsion, whence they fly from each
other, either gradually or suddenly, with
great force, as the separating power is
introduced gradually or suddenly.

4. Thus ice becomes water, and water
vapor, which vapor is said to expand
fourteen thousand times the space it oc-
cupied in the form of water, and with an
explosive force in certain cases capable of
producing great and violent effects.

5. Thus metals expand, melt, and ex-
plode ; the two first effected by the grad-
ual application of the separating power,
and all three, in its sudden application,
by artificial electricity or lightning.

6. That fluid, in passing through a
metal rod or wire, is generally supposed to occupy
the whole dimension of the rod. If the rod is smaller

^

1782] Benjamin Franklin 229

in some places than in others, the quantity of fluid,
which is not sufficient to make any change in the
larger or thicker part, may be sufficient to expand,
melt, or explode the smaller, the quantity of fluid
passing being the same, and the quantity of matter
less that is acted upon.

7. Thus the links of a brass chain, with a certain
quantity of electricity passing through them, have
been melted in the small parts that form their con-
tact, while the rest have not been affected.

8. Thus a piece of tinfoil cut in this form, en-
closed in a pack of cards, and having the charge of a
large bottle sent through it, has been found un-
changed in the broadest part, between a and h,
melted only in spots between c and d, and the part
between d and e reduced to smoke by explosion.

9. The tinfoil melted in spots between h and c and
that whole space not being melted, seems to indicate
that the foil in the melted parts had been thinner
than the rest, on which thin parts the passing fluid
had therefore a greater effect,

10. Some metals melt more easily than others;
tin more easily than copper, copper than iron. It
is supposed (perhaps not yet proved) that those
which melt with the least of the separating power,
whether that be common fire or the electric fluid,
do also explode with less of that power.

11. The explosions of metal, like those of gun-
powder, act in all directions. Thus the explosion of
gold-leaf between plates of glass, breaking the glass
to pieces, will throw those pieces into all parts of the
room; and the explosion of iron, or even of water,

230 The Works of [1782

between the joints of stone in a steeple, will scatter
the stones in all directions round the neighborhood.
But the direction given to those stones by the ex-
plosion is to be considered as different from the
direction of the lightning which happened to occa-
sion those explosions of the matter it met with in
its passage between the clouds and the earth.

12. When bodies positively electrized approach
sharp-pointed rods or thin plates of metal, these are
more easily rendered negative by the repulsive force
of the electric fluid in those positively electrized
bodies, which chases away the natural quantity con-
tained in those mince rods or plates, though it would
not have force enough to chase the same out of
larger masses. Hence such points, rods, and plates,
being in a negative state, draw to themselves more
strongly and in greater quantities the electric fluid
offered them, than such masses can do which remain
nearly in their natural state. And thus a pointed
rod receives not only at its point, though more vis-
ibly there, but at all parts of its length that are
exposed. Hence a needle held between the finger
and thumb, and presented to a charged prime con-
ductor, will draw off the charge more expeditiously
if held near the eye, and the rest of its length is
exposed to the electrical atmosphere, than if all but
half an inch of the point is concealed and covered.

13. Lightning so differs from solid projectiles, and
from common fluids projected with violence that,
though its course is rapid, it is most easily turned to
follow the direction of good conductors. And it is
doubted whether any experiments in electricity have

1782] Benjamin Franklin 231

yet decisively proved that the electric fluid in its
violent passage through the air where a battery is
discharged has what we call a momentum, which
would make it continue its course in a right line,
though a conductor offered near that course to give
it a different or even contrary direction; or that it
has a force capable of pushing forward or overthrow-
ing the objects it strikes against, even though it
sometimes pierces them. Does not this seem to in-
dicate that the perforation is not made by the force
of a projectile passing through, but rather by the
explosion or the dilatation, in passing, of a subtile
line of fluid ?

14. Such an explosion or dilatation of a line of
fluid, passing through a card, would raise burrs
around the hole, sometimes on one side, sometimes
on the other, and sometimes on both, according
to the disposition of the part of the paper near the
surface, without any regard to the direction of the
fluid.

15. Great thanks are due to the ingenious philo-
sopher who examined the vane at Cremona, and who
took the pains to describe so exactly the effects of
the lightning upon it, and to communicate that de-
scription. The fact is extremely curious. It is well
worth considering. He invites to that considera-
tion. He has fairly given his own opinion. He will
with candor receive that of others, though it may
happen to differ from his own. By calmly discuss-
ing rather than by warmly disputing, the truth is
most easily obtained. I shall give my opinion freely,
as it is asked, hoping it may prove the true one;

232 The Works of [1782

and promising myself, if otherwise, the honor at
least of acknowledging frankly my error, and of be-
ing thankful to him who kindly shows it to me.

16. By the account given of this stroke of light-
ning upon the steeple of Cremona, it appears that the
rod of iron or spindle, on which the vane turned, was
of about two inches circumference, terminating in a
cross above the vane, and its lower end fixed in a
marble pedestal.

17. That the plate of the vane was copper, eight
or nine inches wide, and near twice as long. That it
was about one line thick near the spindle, and grow-
ing thinner insensibly towards the other end, where
its thickness did not exceed three quarters of a line,
the weight twenty ounces and a half.

18. That the copper had been tinned over.

19. That the marble pedestal was split by the
stroke into many pieces, and scattered over the roof,
garden, and court of neighboring buildings. One
piece was found thrown to a distance of forty feet.
The spindle was broken and displaced, and the vane
thrown on the roof of the parsonage house, twenty
feet from the steeple.

20. That the vane was perforated in eighteen
places, the holes of irregular forms, and the metal
which had filled them pushed outwards, in some of
them on one side of the vane, in others on the other.
The copper showed marks of having been partly
melted, and in some places tin and copper melted
and mixed together. There were marks of smoke
in several places.

21. The ragged parts bent outwards round each

1782] Benjamin Franklin 233

hole, being brought back to their original flat posi-
tion, were not, though evidently a little thinned and
dilated, sufficient to fill the place.

22. From the effects described , it is clear that
the quantity of lightning which fell on this steeple
at Cremona was very great.

23. The vane being a thin plate of copper, its
edges and corners may be considered as a series of
points, and, being therefore sooner rendered negative
by the repulsive force of an approaching positive
cloud than the blunt and thick iron cross , was
probably first struck, and thence became the con-
ductor of that great quantity.

24. The plate of which the vane was formed,
being thicker near the spindle, and diminishing in
thickness gradually to the other end , was prob-
ably not of copper plated by passing between rollers,
for they would have left it of equal thickness ; but of
metal plated by the hammer. The surface, too, of
rolled copper is even and plain; that of hammered
is generally uneven, with hollows occasioned by the
impressions of the hammer.

25. In those concave impressions the metal is
thinner than it is around them, and probably thin-
nest near the centre of each impression.

26. The lightning, which in passing through the
vane was not sufficient to melt its thicker parts,
might be sufficient to melt the thinner (6, 7, 8, 9),
and to soften those that were in the middle state.

27. The part of the tin which covered the
thinner parts, being more easily melted and ex-
ploded than copper , might possibly be exploded

234 The Works of [1782

when the copper was but melted. The smoke ap-
pearing in several places is a proof of explosion.

28. There might probably be more tin in the con-
cave impressions of the hammer on one side of the
plate, than on the convex part of those impressions
on the other. Hence stronger explosions on the
concave side.

29. The nature of these explosions is to act vio-
lently in all directions; and in this case, being near
the plate, they would act against it on one side,
while they acted against the air on the other.

30. These thin parts of the plate being at the
same instant partly in fusion, and partly so softened
as to be near it, the softened parts were pushed out-
wards, a hole made, and some of the melted parts
blown away ; hence there was not left metal enough
to re-fill the vacancy by bending back the ragged
parts to their places.

31. The concave impressions of the hammer, being
indifferently made on both sides of the plate, it is
natural, from 28, 29, 30, that the pushing outwards
of the softened metal by explosions, should be on
both sides of the plate nearly equal.

32. That the force of a simple electrical explosion
is very great, appears from the Geneva experiment,
wherein a spark between two wires, under oil in a
drinking-glass, breaks the glass, body, stem, and foot,
all to shivers.

33. The electric explosion of metal acts with still
more force. A strip of leaf -gold no broader than a
straw, exploded between two pieces of thick looking-
glass, will break the glass to pieces, though confined

1782] Benjamin Franklin 235

by the screws of a strong press; and, between two
pieces of marble pressed together by a weight of
twenty pounds, will lift that weight. Much less
force is necessary to move the melted and softened
parts of a thin plate of copper.

34. This expHcation of the appearances on the
vane is drawn from what we already know of elec-
tricity and the effects of lightning. The learned
author of the account gives a different but very in-
genious one, which he draws from the appearances
themselves. The matter pushed out of the holes is
found, that of some on one side of the plate, and of
others on the other. Hence he supposes them to be
occasioned (if I understand him right) by streams or
threads of electric matter of different and contrary
kinds, rushing violently towards each other, and
meeting with the vane, so accidentally placed as to
be foimd precisely in the place of their meeting, where
it was pierced by all of them, they all striking on
both its sides at the same instant. This, however,
is so extraordinary an accident as to be, in the au-
thor's own opinion, almost miraculous. "Passer-
anno" (says he) "forse piu secoli prima che ritorni
tralle infinite combinazioni un caso simile a quello
della banderuola che ora abbiamo per mano. Forza e
che si esaurisca una non piu udita miniera di f ulmini
sopra una grande cittk, pressoche seminata di cam-
panili e di banderuole, il che e rarissimo ; e pu6 ancora
[cento ?] volte cio succedere, senza che s' incontri
giammai un altera banderuola tanto opportunamente
situata tra i limiti della fulminea explosione."

35. But, though the author's explication of these

236 The Works of [1782

appearances of the vane does not satisfy me, I am
not so confident of my own as to propose its being
accepted without confirmation by experiment. Those
who have strong electric batteries may try it thus:
form a Httle vane of paper, and spot it on both sides
by attaching small pieces of leaf -gold, or tinfoil, not
exactly opposite to each other ; then send the whole
force of the battery through the vane, entering at
one end of it and going out at the other. If the
metal explodes, I imagine it will be found to make
holes in the paper, forcing the torn parts out on the
sides opposite to the metal. A more expensive, but
perhaps a more satisfactory experiment would be to
make a new vane as exactly as possible like that in
question, in all the particulars of its description, and
place it on a tall mast fixed on some hill subject to
strokes of lightning, with a better conductor to the
earth than the wood of the mast; if this should be
struck in the course of a few years, and the same
effects appear upon it, it would be still more mirac-
ulous to suppose it happened by accident to be
exactly situated where those crossing threads of
different electricities were afterwards to meet.

36. The perforation of glass bottles when over-
charged is, I imagine, a different case, and not ex-
plicable by either of these hypotheses. I cannot
well suppose the breach to be occasioned by the
passage of electricity through it; since a single
bottle, though so broken in the discharge, always is
found to send round in its usual course the quantity
with which it was charged. Then the breach never
happens but at the instant of the circuitous dis-

1782] Benjamin Franklin 237

charge, either by the discharging rod, or in over-
leaping the borders of the glass. Thus, I have been
present when a battery of twenty glasses was dis-
charged by the discharging rod, and produced the
same effect in its circuit as if none of the bottles had
been pierced ; and yet, on examining them, we found
no less than twelve of them in that situation. Now,
all the bottles of the battery being united by a com-
munication of all the outsides together, and of all
the insides together, if one of them had been pierced
by a forced passage of the different kinds of electric-
ity to meet each other, before the discharge by the
discharging rod, it would not only have prevented
the passage of the electricity by the common circuit,
but it would have saved all the rest of its fellows,
by conducting the whole through its own breach.
And it is not easy to conceive that twelve bottles in
twenty should be so equally strong as to support the
whole strength of their charge, till the circuit of
their discharge was opened, and then be so equally
weak as to break altogether when the weight of that
charge was taken off from them by opening the cir-
cuits. At some other time I will give you my
opinion of this effect, if you desire it.

I have taken the account of this stroke of light-
ning from an Italian piece, entitled "Analisi d' un
nuovo Fenomeno del Fulmine," the dedication of
which is subscribed Carlo Barletti, delle Scuole Pie,
who, I suppose, is the author. As I do not per-
fectly understand that language, I may possibly in
some things have mistaken that philosopher's mean-
ing. I therefore desire, my dear friend, that you

238 The Works of [1782

would not permit this to be pubHshed till you have
compared and considered it with that original piece,
and communicated to me your remarks and correc-
tions. Nor would I in any case have it appear with
my name, as perhaps it may occasion disputes, and
I have no time to attend to them.

MLXXXII

THE LEYDEN PHIAL AND M. VOLTA's EXPERIMENT

I thank you for the account you give me of M.
Volta's experiment. You judge rightly in supposing
that I have not much time at present to consider
philosophical matters ; but, as far as I understand it
from your description, it is only another form of the
Leyden phial, and explicable by the same principles.
I must, however, own myself puzzled by one part of
your account, viz.: "And thus the electric force,
once excited, may be kept alive years together,"
which is perhaps only a mistake. I have known it,
indeed, to be continued many months in a phial
hermetically sealed, and suppose it may be so pre-
served for ages ; but, though one may, by repeatedly
touching the knob of a charged bottle with a small
insulated plate, like the upper one of the electro-
phore, draw an incredible number of sparks succes-
sively, that is, one after every touch, and those for a
while not apparently different in magnitude, yet at
length they will become small, and the charge be
finally exhausted. But I am in the wrong to give
my opinion till I have seen the experiment.

1782] Benjamin Franklin 239

I like much your pasteboard machine, and think
it may, in some respects, be preferable to the very
large glass ones constructed here. The Due de
Chaulnes has one, said, if I remember right, to be
five feet in diameter. I saw it tried, but it hap-
pened not to be in order. B. Franklin.

MLXXXIII

MILITIA PREFERABLE TO REGULAR TROOPS

Abb^ Morellet's Questions and Dr. Franklin's Answers.

"Je prie Monsieur Franklin de vouloir bien re-
pondre aux questions suivantes — by a yes or no.

' ' Croit-il que les Etats Unis puissent dans la suite
et apr^s leur independance reconnue, se passer de
troupes regulieres toujours sur pied?" — Yes.

"Feront-ils mieux de n'avoir que des milices
nationales ? ' ' — Certainly.

"Des milices couteront-elles moins cher k I'etat
ou plutot k la nation ; car ne peut-on pas dire, que,
dans un etat de choses ou tous les citoyens doivent
s'exercer h porter les armes, il y a en fin de compte,
en perte de temps, en depenses pour I'armement,
pour I'habillement, pour le rassemblement des
troupes k certains temps de I'annee, etc., une de-
pense reelle plus grande que celle qu'il faudroit pour
tenir sur pied un petit nombre de troupes regulieres ? ' '

Supposing a general militia to be equally expen-
sive with a body of regular troops, yet the militia is
preferable, because the whole, being especially dis-
ciplined, has nothing to fear from a part.

240 The Works of [1782

"Monsieur Franklin croit-il qu'on puisse entretenir
en Amerique un corps de troupes sur pied dans
chaque province confederee sans mettre la liberte en
danger?"

Europe was without regular troops till lately. One
powerful prince keeping an army always on foot
makes it necessary for his neighbor to do the same
to prevent surprise. We have no such dangerous
neighbors in America. We shall probably keep
magazines of arms and ammunition always filled,
and no European power will ever find us so unpro-
vided as England found us at the beginning of this
war, or can prepare to invade us with a sufficient
force in so short a time as not to give us time suffi-
cient to repel the invader. Mr. F. therefore thinks
that, to avoid not only the expense but the danger
of keeping up a body of regular troops in time of
peace, none of the States separately will do it, nor
the Congress for the whole.

MLXXXIV

A LECTURE ^ ON THE PROVIDENCE OF GOD IN THE
GOVERNMENT OF THE WORLD

When I consider my own weakness and the dis-
cerning judgment of those who are to be my audience,
I cannot help blaming myself considerably for this

I This lectiire was transcribed from a manuscript book in Dr. Frank-
lin's handwriting, in the possession of Mr. William Duane, Jr., of
Philadelphia. It was probably written for the Junto, and when the
author was comparatively unpractised as a writer. Its date is not
known. — Editor.

1782] Benjamin Franklin 241

rash undertaking of mine, being a thing I am alto-
gether unpractised in, and very much unqualified for ;
but I am especially discouraged when I reflect that
you are all my intimate pot-companions, who have
heard me say a thousand silly things in conversa-
tion, and therefore have not that laudable partiality
and veneration for whatever I shall deliver, that good
people commonly have for their spiritual guides;
that you have no reverence for my habit, nor for the
sanctity of my countenance; that you do not be-
lieve me inspired or divinely assisted, and therefore
will think yourselves at liberty to assent or dissent,
approve or disapprove of any thing I advance, can-
vassing and sifting it, as the private opinion of one
of your acquaintance. These are great disadvan-
tages and discouragements; but I am entered and
must proceed, humbly requesting your patience and
attention.

I propose, at this time, to discourse on the sub-
ject of our last conversation, the providence of God
in the government of the world. It might be judged
an affront to your understandings, should I go about
to prove this first principle, the existence of a Deity,
and that he is the creator of the universe; for that
would suppose you ignorant of what all mankind in
all ages have agreed in. I shall therefore proceed to
observe, that he must be a being of infinite wisdom,
as appears in his admirable order and disposition of
things ; whether we consider the heavenly bodies, the
stars and planets, and their wonderful regular mo-
tions; or this earth, compounded of such an excel-
lent mixture of all the elements; or the admirable

242 The Works of [1782

structure of animate bodies of such infinite variety,
and yet every one adapted to its nature and the way
of life it is to be placed in, whether on earth, in the
air, or in the water, and so exactly that the highest
and most exquisite human reason cannot find a
fault, and say this would have been better so, or in
such a manner; which whoever considers attentively
and thoroughly will be astonished and swallowed up
in admiration.

That the Deity is a being of great goodness, ap-
pears in his giving life to so many creatures, each of
which acknowledges it a benefit, by its imwillingness
to leave it ; in his providing plentiful sustenance for
them all, and making those things that are most
useful, most common and easy to be had; such as
water, necessary for almost every creature to drink;
air, without which few could subsist; the inexpres-
sible benefits of light and sunshine to almost all
animals in general; and to men, the most useful
vegetables, such as corn, the most useful of metals,
as iron, etc., the most useful animals, as horses, oxen,
and sheep, he has made easiest to raise or procure in
quantity or numbers; each of which particulars, if
considered seriously and carefully, would fill us with
the highest love and affection.

That he is a being of infinite power appears in his
being able to form and compound such vast masses
of matter, as this earth, and the stm, and innu-
merable stars and planets, and give them such pro-
digious motion, and yet so to govern them in their
greatest velocity, as that they shall not fly out of
their appointed bounds, nor dash one against another

1782] Benjamin Franklin 243

for their mutual destruction. But it is easy to con-
ceive his power, when we are convinced of his infinite
knowledge and wisdom. For, if weak and fooHsh
creatures as we are, by knowing the nature of a few
things, can produce such wonderful effects — such as,
for instance, by knowing the nature only of nitre
and sea-salt mixed we can make a water which will
dissolve the hardest iron, and by adding one ingre-
dient more can make another water which will dis-
solve gold and make the most solid bodies fluid ; and
by knowing the nature of saltpetre, sulphur, and
charcoal, with those mean ingredients mixed we can
shake the air in the most terrible manner, destroy
ships, houses, and men at a distance, and in an
instant overthrow cities, and rend rocks into a thou-
sand pieces, and level the highest mountains, — what
power must he possess, who not only knows the
nature of everything in the universe, but can make
things of new natures with the greatest ease and at
his pleasure!

Agreeing, then, that the world was at first made
by a being of infinite wisdom, goodness, and power,
which being we call God, the state of things existing
at this time must be in one of these four following
manners, namely:

1 . Either he unchangeably decreed and appointed
every thing that comes to pass, and left nothing to
the course of nature, nor allowed any creature free
agency ;

2. Without decreeing any thing, he left all to
general nature and the events of free agency in his
creatures, which he never alters or interrupts ; or,

244 The Works of [1782

3. He decreed some things unchangeably, and left
others to general nature and the events of free
agency, which also he never alters or interrupts ; or,

4. He sometimes interferes by his particular
providence, and sets aside the effects which would
otherwise have been produced by any of the above
causes.

I shall endeavor to show the first three supposi-
tions to be inconsistent with the common light of
reason, and that the fourth is most agreeable to it,
and therefore most probably true.

In the first place, if you say he has in the begin-
ning imchangeably decreed all things and left nothing
to nature or free agency, these strange conclusions
will necessarily follow : i . That he is now no more a
God. It is true, indeed, before he made such un-
changeable decree, he was a being of power almighty ;
but now, having determined every thing, he has
divested himself of all further power, he has done
and has no more to do, he has tied up his hands and
has now no greater power than an idol of wood or
stone ; nor can there be any more reason for praying
to him or worshipping of him than of such an idol,
for the worshippers can never be better for such
worship. Then, 2. He has decreed some things con-
trary to the very notion of a wise and good being;
such as, that some of his creatures or children shall
do all manner of injury to others, and bring every
kind of evil upon them without cause; that some
of them shall even blaspheme him, their Creator, in
the most horrible manner ; and, which is still more
highly absurd, he has decreed, that the greatest part

1782] Benjamin Franklin 245

of mankind shall in all ages put up their earnest
prayers to him, both in private and publicly in great
assemblies, when all the while he had so determined
their fate that he cotild not possibly grant them any
benefits on that accoimt, nor cotild such prayers be
in any way available. Why then should he ordain
them to make such prayers ? It cannot be imagined
that they are of any service to him. Surely it is not
more difficult to believe the world was made by a
god of wood or stone, than that the God who made
the world should be such a God as this.

In the second place, if you say he has decreed
nothing, but left all things to general nature and the
events of free agency, which he never alters or inter-
rupts, then these conclusions will follow: he must
either utterly hide himself from the works of his own
hands, and take no notice at all of their proceedings,
natural or moral, or he must be, as undoubtedly he
is, a spectator of everything, for there can be no
reason or ground to suppose the first. I say there
can be no reason to imagine he would make so glori-
ous a tmiverse merely to abandon it. In this case,
imagine the Deity looking on and beholding the ways
of his creatures. Some heroes in virtue he sees are
incessantly endeavoring the good of others; they
labor through vast difficulties, they suffer incredible
hardships and miseries to accomplish this end, in
hopes to please a good God, and attain his favors,
which they earnestly pray for. What answer can
he make, then, within himself, but this? Take the
reward chance may give you; I do not intermeddle in
these affairs. He sees others continually doing all

246 The Works of [1782

manner of evil, and bringing by their actions misery
and destruction among mankind. What can he say
here but this? // chance rewards you, I shall not
punish you; I am not to be concerned. He sees the
just, the innocent, and the beneficent in the hands of
the wicked and violent oppressor, and when the good
are at the brink of destruction, they pray to him:
Thou, 0 God, art mighty and powerful to save; help
us, we beseech thee! He answers: / cannot help you;
it is none of my business, nor do I at all regard these
things. How is it possible to believe a wise and an
infinitely good being can be delighted in this circum-
stance, and be utterly imconcerned what becomes of
the beings and things he has created? For thus we
must believe him idle and inactive, and that his
glorious attributes of power, wisdom, and goodness
are no more to be made use of.

In the third place, if you say he has decreed some
things, and left others to the events of nature and
free agency, which he never alters or interrupts, still
you un-God him, if I may be allowed the expression ;
he has nothing to do ; he can cause us neither good
nor harm ; he is no more to be regarded than a life-
less image, than Dagon, or Baal, or Bell and the
Dragon ; and, as in both the other suppositions fore-
going, that being, which from its power is most able
to act, from its wisdom knows best how to act, and
from its goodness would always certainly act best, is,
in this opinion, supposed to become the most inac-
tive of all beings, and remain everlastingly idle; an
absurdity which, when considered or but barely seen,
cannot be swallowed without doing the greatest vio-

1782] Benjamin Franklin 247

lence to common reason and all the faculties of the
understanding.

We are then necessarily driven to the fourth sup-
position, that the Deity sometimes interferes by
his particular providence, and sets aside the events,
which would otherwise have been produced in the
course of nature, or by the free agency of men; and
this is perfectly agreeable with what we know of his
attributes and perfections. But, as some may doubt
whether it is possible there should be such a thing as
free agency in creatures, I shall just offer one short
argument on that account, and proceed to show how
the duty of religion necessarily follows the belief of
a Providence. You acknowledge that God is infin-
itely powerful, wise, and good, and also a free agent,
and you will not deny that he has communicated to
us part of his wisdom, power, and goodness ; that is,
he has made us, in some degree, wise, potent, and
good. And is it, then, impossible for him to com-
municate any part of his freedom, and make us also
in some degree free ? Is not even this infinite power
sufficient for this? I should be glad to hear what
reason any man can give for thinking in that man-
ner. It is sufficient for me to show it is not impos-
sible, and no man, I think, can show it is improbable.
Much more might be offered to demonstrate clearly
that men are in some degree free agents and account-
able for their actions ; however, this I may possibly
reserve for another separate discourse hereafter, if I
find occasion.

Lastly, if God does not sometimes interfere by his
providence, it is either because he cannot, or because

248 The Works of [1782

he will not. Which of these positions will you
choose? There is a righteous nation grievously op-
pressed by a cruel tyrant; they earnestly entreat
God to deliver them. If you say he cannot, you
deny his infinite power, which you at first acknow-
ledged. If you say he will not, you must directly
deny his infinite goodness. You are of necessity
obliged to allow that it is highly reasonable to be-
lieve a Providence, because it is highly absurd to
believe otherwise.

Now, if it is unreasonable to suppose it out of the
power of the Deity to help and favor us particularly,
or that we are out of his hearing and notice, or that
good actions do not procure more of his favor than
ill ones; then I conclude that, believing a Provi-
dence, we have the foundation of all true religion;
for we should love and revere the Deity for his good-
ness, and thank him for his benefits; we should
adore him for his wisdom, fear him for his power,
and pray to him for his favor and protection. And
this religion will be a powerful regulator of our ac-
tions, give us peace and tranquillity within our own
minds, and render us benevolent, useful, and bene-
ficial to others.

MLXXXV

JOURNAL OF THE NEGOTIATION FOR PEACE WITH

GREAT BRITAIN, FROM MARCH 21 TO

JULY I, 1782

Passy, 9 May, 1782.

As, since the change of the ministry in England,
some serious professions have been made of their

1782] Benjamin Franklin 249

disposition to peace, and of their readiness to enter
into a general treaty for that purpose; and as the
concerns and claims of five nations are to be dis-
cussed in that treaty, which must therefore be in-
teresting to the present age and to posterity, I am
inclined to keep a journal of the proceedings, so far
as they come to my knowledge; and, to make it
more complete, I will first endeavor to recollect
what has already past. Great affairs sometimes take
their rise from small circumstances. My good friend
and neighbor, Madame Brillon, being at Nice all
last winter for her health, with her very amiable
family, wrote to me that she had met with some
English gentry there, whose acquaintance proved
agreeable; among them she named Lord Chol-
mondely, who, she said, had promised to call in his
return to England, and drink tea with us at Passy.
He left Nice sooner than she supposed, and came to
Paris long before her. On the 21st of March I re-
ceived the following note :

"Lord Cholmondely's compliments to Dr. Frank-
lin ; he sets out for London to-morrow evening, and
should be glad to see him for five minutes before he
went. Lord Cholmondely will call upon him at any
time in the morning he shall please to appoint."

" Thursday evening. Hotel de Chartres."

I wrote for answer that I should be at home all the
next morning, and glad to see his Lordship, if he did
me the honor of calling on me. He came accord-
ingly. I had before no personal knowledge of this

250 The Works of [1782

nobleman. We talked of oiir friends whom he left
at Nice, then of affairs in England, and the late reso-
lutions of the Commons on Mr. Conway's motion.
He told me that he knew Lord Shelbume had a great
regard for me, that he was sure his lordship would be
pleased to hear from me, and that if I would write a
line he should have a pleasure in carrying it. On
which I wrote the following.

Passy, 2 2 March, 1782.

My Lord : — Lord Cholmondely having kindly of-
fered to take a letter from me to your Lordship, I
embrace the opportunity of assuring the continuance
of my ancient respect for your talents and virtues,
and of congratulating you on the returning good
disposition of your country in favor of America,
which appears in the late resolutions of the Com-
mons. I am persuaded it will have good effects. I
hope it will tend to produce a general peace, which
I am sure your Lordship, with all good men, desires,
which I wish to see before I die, and to which I shall,
with infinite pleasure, contribute every thing in my
power.

Your friends, the Abbe Morellet and Madame
Helve tius, are well. You have made the latter very
happy by your present of gooseberry bushes, which
arrived in five days, and in excellent order. With
great and sincere esteem, I have the honor to be, etc.,

B. Franklin.

Soon after this we heard from England that a total
change had taken place in the ministry, and that

1782] Benjamin Franklin 251

Lord Shelbume had come in as Secretary of State.
But I thought no more of my letter, till an old friend
and near neighbor of mine many years in London
appeared at Passy, and introduced a Mr. Oswald,
who, he said, had a great desire to see me; and
Mr. Oswald, after some little conversation, gave me
the following letters from Lord Shelburne and Mr.
Laurens.

"London, 6 April, 1782.

"Dear Sir: — I have been favored with your let-
ter, and am much obliged by your remembrance. I
find myself returned nearly to the same situation,
which you remember me to have occupied nineteen
years ago ; and I should be very glad to talk to you
as I did then, and afterwards, in 1767, upon the
means of promoting the happiness of mankind, a
subject much more agreeable to my nature than the
best concerted plans for spreading misery and de-
vastation. I have had a high opinion of the com-
pass of your mind, and of your foresight. I have
often been beholden to both, and shall be glad to
be so again, as far as is compatible with your situa-
tion. Your letter, discovering the same disposition,
has made me send to you Mr. Oswald. I have had
a longer acquaintance with him than even I have
had the pleasure to have with you. I believe him
an honest man, and, after consulting some of our
common friends, I have thought him the fittest for
the purpose. He is a pacifical man, and conversant
in those negotiations which are most interesting to
mankind. This has made me prefer him to any

252 The Works of [1782

of our spectilative friends, or to any person of higher
rank. He is fully apprised of my mind, and you
may give full credit to every thing he assures you
of. At the same time, if any other channel occurs
to you, I am ready to embrace it. I wish to retain
the same simplicity and good faith which subsisted
between us in transactions of less importance. I
have the honor to be, etc."

" London, 7 April, 1782.

"Dear Sir: — Richard Oswald, Esquire, who will
do me the honor of delivering this, is a gentleman
of the strictest candor and integrity. I dare give
such assurances from an experience little short of
thirty years, and to add, you will be perfectly safe
in conversing freely with him on the business he
will introduce, a business which Mr. Oswald has
disinterestedly engaged in, from motives of benevol-
ence; and from the choice of the man a persuasion
follows, that the electors mean to be in earnest.

''Some people in this country, who have too long
indulged themselves in abusing every thing Amer-
ican, have been pleased to circulate an opinion that
Dr. Franklin is a very cunning man; in answer to
which I have remarked to Mr. Oswald : ' Dr. Frank-
lin knows very well how to manage a cunning man;
but, when the Doctor converses or treats with a man
of candor, there is no man more candid than him-
self.' I do not know whether you will ultimately
agree on political sketches; but I am sure, as gen-
tlemen, you will part very well pleased with each
other. Should you, sir, think proper to commimi-

1782] Benjamin Franklin 253

cate to me your sentiments and advice on our affairs,
— the more amply the more acceptable, and probably
the more serviceable, — Mr. Oswald will take charge
of your despatches, and afford a secure means of
conveyance.

"To this gentleman I refer you for general infor-
mation of a journey which I am immediately to
make, partly in his company, to Ostend, to file off
for the Hague. I feel a willingness, infirm as I am,
to attempt doing as much good as can be expected
from such a prisoner upon parole. As General Bur-
goyne is certainly exchanged (a circumstance, by
the by, which possibly might have embarrassed us,
had your late propositions been accepted), may I
presume at my return to offer another lieutenant-
general, now in England, a prisoner upon parole, in
exchange ; or what shall I offer in exchange for my-
self, a thing in my own estimation of no great value ?
I have the honor to be, with great respect, and, per-
mit me to add, great reverence, sir, etc.,

"Henry Laurens."

I entered into conversation with Mr. Oswald. He
was represented in the letter as fully apprised of
Lord Shelbume's mind, and I was desirous of know-
ing it. All I could learn was, that the new ministry
sincerely wished for a peace; that they considered
the object of the war, to France and America, as ob-
tained ; that, if the independence of the United States
was agreed to, there was no other point in dispute,
and therefore nothing to hinder a pacification; that
they were ready to treat of peace, but he intimated

254 The Works of [1782

that if France should insist upon terms too humihat-
ing to England, they would still continue the war,
having yet great strength and many resources left.
I let him know that America would not treat but in
concert with France, and that, my colleagues not
being here, I could do nothing of importance in the
affair; but that, if he pleased, I would present him
to M. de Vergennes, Secretary of State for Foreign
Affairs. He consenting, I wrote and sent the follow-
ing letter:

Passy, 16 April, 1782.

Sir: — An English nobleman, Lord Cholmondely,
lately returning from Italy, called upon me here, at
the time when we received the news of the first reso-
lutions of the House of Commons relating to Amer-
ica. In conversation, he said that he knew his
friend, Lord Shelbume, had a great regard for me,
that it would be pleasing to him to hear of my wel-
fare, and receive a line from me, of which he. Lord
Cholmondely, should like to be the bearer, adding,
if there should be a change of ministry, he believed
Lord Shelburne would be employed. I thereupon
wrote a few lines, of which I enclose a copy. This
day I received an answer, which I also enclose, to-
gether with another letter from Mr. Laurens. They
both, as your Excellency will see, recommend the
bearer, Mr. Oswald, as a very honest, sensible man.
I have had a little conversation with him. He tells
me that there has been a desire of making a separate
peace with America, and continuing the war with
France and Spain, but that now all wise people give
up that idea as impracticable; and it is his private

1782] Benjamin Franklin 255

opinion that the ministry do sincerely desire a general
peace, and that they will readily come into it, pro-
vided France does not insist upon conditions too
humiliating for England, in which case she will make
great and violent efforts rather than submit to them,
and that much is still in her power, etc.

I told the gentleman that I could not enter into
particulars with him, but in concert with the minis-
ters of this court. And I proposed introducing him
to your Excellency, after communicating to you the
letters he brought me, in case you should think fit to
see him, with which he appeared to be pleased. I
intend waiting on you to-morrow, when you will
please to acquaint me with your intentions, and
favor me with your counsels. He had heard no-
thing of Forth's mission, and the old ministry had
not acquainted the new with that transaction. Mr.
Laurens came over with him in the same vessel, and
went from Ostend to Holland. With great respect,
I am, etc.,

B. Franklin.

The next day, being at court with the foreign min-
isters, as usual on Tuesdays, I saw M. de Vergennes,
who acquainted me that he had caused the letters
to be translated, had considered the contents, and
should like to see Mr. Oswald. We agreed that the
interview should be on Wednesday at ten o'clock.
Immediately on my return home, I wrote to Mr. Os-
wald, acquainting him with what had passed at Ver-
sailles, and proposing that he should be with me at
half past eight the next morning, in order to proceed
thither. I received from him the following answer.

256 The Works of [1782

"Paris, 17 April.

"Sir: — I have the honor of yours by the bearer,
and shall be sure to wait on you to-morrow, at half
past eight, and am, with much respect, etc.,

"Richard Oswald."

He came accordingly, and we arrived at Versailles
ptmctually. M. de Vergennes received him with
much civility. Mr. Oswald not being ready in speak-
ing French, M. de Rayneval interpreted. Mr. Os-
wald at first thought of sending an express, with the
account of the conversation, which continued near
an hour, and was offered a passport, but finally con-
cluded to go himself; and I wrote the next day the
letter following.

Passy, 18 April, 1782.

My Lord : — I have received the letter your Lord-
ship did me the honor of writing to me on the 6th
instant. I congratulate you on your new appoint-
ment to the honorable and important office you
formerly filled so worthily, which must be so far
pleasing to you, as it affords you more opportunities
of doing good, and of serving your coimtry essen-
tially in its great concerns.

I have conversed a good deal with Mr. Oswald,
and am much pleased with him. He appears to me
a wise and honest man. I acquainted him that I
was commissioned, with others, to treat of and con-
clude a peace. That full powers were given us for
that purpose, and that the Congress promised in
good faith to ratify, confirm, and cause to be faith-
fully observed, the treaty we should make; but that
we would not treat separately from France, and I

1782] Benjamin Franklin 257

proposed introducing him to the Count de Ver-
gennes, to whom I commimicated your Lordship's
letter containing Mr. Oswald's character, as a founda-
tion for the interviews. He will acquaint you that
the assurance he gave of his Britannic Majesty's
good disposition towards peace was well received,
and assurances returned of the same good disposi-
tions in his most Christian Majesty.

With regard to circumstances relative to a treaty,
M. de Vergennes observed, that the king's engage-
ments were such that he could not treat without
the concurrence of his allies, that the treaty should,
therefore, be for a general, not a partial peace ; that,
if the parties were disposed to finish the war speed-
ily by themselves, it would perhaps be best to treat
at Paris, as an ambassador from Spain was already
there, and the Commissioners from America might
easily and soon be assembled there. Or, if they
chose to make use of the proposed mediation, they
might treat at Vienna; but that the king was so
truly willing to put a speedy end to the war, that he
would agree to any place the king of England should
think proper.

I leave the rest of the conversation to be related
to your Lordship by Mr. Oswald; and, that he might
do it more easily and fully than he could by letter, I
was of opinion with him, that it would be best he
should return immediately and do it viva voce. Be-
ing myself but one of the four persons now in Europe
commissioned by the Congress to treat of peace, I
can make no propositions of much importance with-
out them. I can only express my wish that, if Mr.

258 The Works of [1782

Oswald returns hither, he may bring with him the
agreement of your court to treat for a general peace,
and the proposal of place and time, that I may im-
mediately write to Messrs. Adams, Laurens, and Jay.
I suppose that in this case your Lordship will think
it proper to have Mr. Laurens discharged from the
engagements he entered into when he was admitted
to bail. I desire no other channel of communica-
tion between us than that of Mr. Oswald, which I
think your Lordship has chosen with much judg-
ment. He will be witness of my acting with all
the simplicity and good faith which you do me the
honor to expect from me ; and, if he is enabled, when
he returns hither, to communicate more fully your
Lordship's mind on the principal points to be settled,
I think it may contribute much to the blessed work
our hearts are engaged in.

By the act of Parliament relative to American
prisoners, I see the king is empowered to exchange
them. I hope those you have in England and Ire-
land may be sent home soon to their country, in
flags of truce, and exchanged for an equal number
of your people. Permit me to add that I think it
would be well if some kindness were mixed in the
transaction, with regard to their comfortable ac-
commodation on shipboard, as these poor unfor-
tunate people have been long absent from their
friends, and rather hardly treated. With great and
sincere respect, I have the honor to be, my Lord, etc.,

B. Franklin.

To the account contained in this letter of what

1782] Benjamin Franklin 259

passed in the conversation with the minister, I shovild
add his frank declaration that, as the foiindation of
a good and durable peace should be laid in justice,
whenever a treaty was entered upon, he had several
demands of justice to make from England. Of this,
says he, I give you previous notice. What these de-
mands were he did not particularly say. One oc-
curred to me, viz., reparation for the injury done in
taking a number of French ships by surprise, before
the declaration of the preceding war, contrary to the
law of nations. Mr. Oswald seemed to wish to ob-
tain some propositions to carry back with him; but
M. de Vergennes said to him, very properly : "There
are four nations engaged in the war against you,
who cannot, till they have consulted and know each
other's minds, be ready to make propositions. Your
court being without allies and alone, knowing its
own mind, can express it immediately. It is there-
fore more natural to expect the first proposition
from you."

On our return from Versailles, Mr. Oswald took
occasion to impress me with ideas that the present
weakness of the government of England, with regard
to continuing the war, was owing chiefly to the divi-
sion of sentiments about it; that, in case France
should make demands too humiliating for England
to submit to, the spirit of the nation would be roused,
unanimity would prevail, and resources would not
be wanting. He said there was no want of money
in the nation; that the chief difficiilty lay in the
finding out new taxes to raise it; and perhaps
that difficulty might be avoided by shutting up the

26o The Works of [1782

exchequer, stopping the payment of the interest of
the public funds, and applying that money to the
support of the war. I made no reply to this, for
I did not desire to discourage their stopping pay-
ment, which I considered as cutting the throat of the
public credit, and a means of adding fresh exaspera-
tion against them with the neighboring nations.
Such menaces were besides an encouragement with
me, remembering the adage, that they who threaten
are afraid.

The next morning, when I had written the above
letter to Lord Shelbume, I went with it to Mr. Os-
wald's lodgings, and gave it to him to read before I
sealed it ; that, in case any thing might be in it with
which he was not satisfied, it might be corrected;
but he expressed himself much pleased.

In going to him I had also in view the entering
into a conversation which might draw out something
of the mind of his court on the subject of Canada and
Nova Scotia. I had thrown some loose thoughts on
paper, which I intended to serve as memorandums
for my discourse, but without a fixed intention of
showing them to him. On his saying that he was
obliged to me for the good opinion I had expressed
of him to Lord Shelbume in my letter, and assuring
me that he had entertained the same of me, I ob-
served that I perceived Lord Shelburne had placed
great confidence in him, and, as we had happily the
same in each other, we might possibly, by a free
communication of sentiments, and a previous set-
tling of our own minds on some of the important
points, be the means of great good, by impressing

1782] Benjamin Franklin 261

oiir sentiments on the minds of those with whom
they might have influence, and where their being
received might be of importance.

I then remarked that his nation seemed to de-
sire a reconcihation ; that, to obtain this, the party
which had been the aggressor and had cruelly treated
the other, should show some marks of concern for
what was past, and some disposition to make repara-
tion ; that perhaps there were things which America
might demand by way of reparation, and which Eng-
land might yield, and that the effect would be vastly
greater, if they appeared to be voluntary, and to
spring from returning good-will; that I, therefore,
wished England would think of offering something
to relieve those who had suffered by its scalping
and burning parties. Lives indeed could not be re-
stored nor compensated, but the villages and houses
wantonly destroyed might be rebuilt, etc. I then
touched upon the affair of Canada, and, as in a for-
mer conversation he had mentioned his opinion that
the giving up of that country to the Enghsh, at the
last peace, had been a politic act in France, for that
it had weakened the ties between England and her
colonies, and that he himself had predicted from it
the late revolution, I spoke of the occasions of future
quarrel that might be produced by her continuing
to hold it; hinting at the same time, but not ex-
pressing too plainly, that such a situation, to us so
dangerous, would necessarily oblige us to cultivate
and strengthen our union with France. He ap-
peared much struck with my discourse, and, as I
frequently looked at my paper, he desired to see it.

262 The Works of [1782

After some little delay, I allowed him to read it;
the following is an exact copy.

NOTES FOR CONVERSATION

To make a peace durable, what may give occa-
sion for future wars should if practicable be removed.

The territory of the United States, and that of
Canada, by long extended frontiers, touch each other.

The settlers on the frontiers of the American
provinces are generally the most disorderly of the
people, who, being far removed from the eye and
control of their respective governments, are more
bold in committing offences against neighbors, and
are forever occasioning complaints and furnishing
matter for fresh differences between their States.

By the late debates in Parliament, and public
writings, it appears that Britain desires a recon-
ciliation with the Americans. It is a sweet word.
It means much more than mere peace, and what is
heartily to be wished for. Nations make a peace
whenever they are both weary of making war. But
if one of them hac made war upon the other unjustly,
and has wantonly and unnecessarily done it great
injuries, and refuses reparation, though there may,
for the present, be peace, the resentment of those
injuries will remain, and will break out again in
vengeance when occasions offer. These occasions
will be watched for by one side, feared by the other,
and the peace will never be secure; nor can any
cordiality subsist between them.

Many houses and villages have been burnt in
America by the English and their allies, the Indians.

1782] Benjamin Franklin 263

I do not know that the Americans will insist on
reparation; perhaps they may. But would it not
be better for England to offer it? Nothing would
have a greater tendency to conciliate, and much
of the future commerce and returning intercourse
between the two countries may depend on the re-
conciliation. Would not the advantage of reconcilia-
tion by such means be greater than the expense ?

If then a way can be proposed, which may tend
to efface the memory of injuries, at the same time
that it takes away the occasions of fresh quarrels and
mischief, will it not be worth considering, especially
if it can be done, not only without expense, but be
a means of saving?

Britain possesses Canada. Her chief advantage
from that possession consists in the trade for peltry.
Her expenses in governing and defending that settle-
ment must be considerable. It might be himiiliating
to her to give it up on the demand of America. Per-
haps America will not demand it ; some of her pohti-
cal rulers may consider the fear of such a neighbor as
a means of keeping the thirteen States more united
among themselves and more attentive to military
discipline. But on the mind of the people in general
would it not have an excellent effect if Britain should
voluntarily offer to give up this province, though on
these conditions, that she shall, in all times coming,
have and enjoy the right of free trade thither, unin-
cumbered with any duties whatsoever ; that so much
of the vacant lands there shall be sold, as will raise
a sum sufficient to pay for the houses burnt by
the British troops and their Indians; and also to

264 The Works of [1782

indemnify the royalists for the confiscation of their
estates ?

This is mere conversation matter between Mr.
Oswald and Mr. Franklin, as the former is not em-
powered to make propositions, and the latter cannot
make any without the concurrence of his colleagues."

He then told me that nothing in his judgment
could be clearer, more satisfactory and convincing,
than the reasonings in that paper ; that he would do
his utmost to impress Lord Shelbume with them;
that, as his memory might not do them justice, and
it would be impossible for him to express them so
well or state them so clearly as I had written them,
he begged I would let him take the paper with him,
assuring me that he would return it safely into my
hands. I at length complied with this request also.
We parted exceeding good friends, and he set out for
London.

By the first opportunity after his departure I wrote
the following letter to Mr. Adams, and sent the pa-
pers therein mentioned, that he might fully be ap-
prised of the proceedings. I omitted only the paper
of Notes for Conversation with Mr. Oswald, but gave
the substance, as appears in the letter. The reason
of my omitting it was, that, on reflection, I was not
pleased with my having hinted a reparation to Tories
for their forfeited estates, and I was a little ashamed
of my weakness in permitting the paper to go out of
my hands.

Passy, 20 April, 1782.

Sir: — I hope your Excellency received the copy
of our instructions which I sent by the courier from

1782] Benjamin Franklin 265

Versailles some weeks since. I wrote to you on the
13th, to go by Captain Smedley, and sent a packet
of correspondence with Mr. Hartley. Smedley did
not leave Paris so soon as I expected ; but you should
have it by this time.

With this I send a fresh correspondence, which I
have been drawn into, viz., ist, a letter I sent to Lord
Shelbume before he was a minister; 2dly, his an-
swer since he was a minister, by Mr. Oswald; 3dly,
a letter from Mr. Laurens; 4thly, my letter to M.
de Vergennes; 5thly, my answer to Lord Shelbume;
6thly, my answer to Mr. Laurens; ythly, a copy of
Digges' report. These papers will inform you pretty
well of what passed between me and Mr. Oswald,
except that in a conversation at parting, I mentioned
to him that I observed they spoke much in England
of obtaining a reconciliation with the colonies; that
this was more than a peace; that the latter might
possibly be obtained without the former; that the
cruel injuries constantly done us by burning our
towns, etc., had made deep impressions of resent-
ment that would long remain ; that much of the ad-
vantage to the commerce of England from a peace
would depend on a reconciliation; that the peace
without reconciliation would probably not be dur-
able ; that after a quarrel between friends, nothing
tended so much to conciliate as offers made by the
aggressor of reparation for injuries done by him in
his passion. And I hinted that, if England should
make us a voluntary offer of Canada, expressly for
that purpose, it might have a good effect.

Mr. Oswald liked much the idea, and said they

266 The Works of [1782

were too much straitened for money to make us
pecuniary reparation, but he should endeavor to
persuade their doing it this way. He is furnished
with a passport to go and return by Calais, and I
expect him back in ten or twelve days. I wish you
and Mr. Laurens could be here when he arrives, for
I shall much want your advice, and cannot act with-
out your concurrence. If the present crisis of your
affairs prevents your coming, I hope, at least, Mr.
Laurens will be here, and we must communicate
with you by expresses, for your letters to me by post
are generally opened. I shall write by the next
post, requesting Mr. Jay to be here also as soon as
possible.

I received your letter advising of your draft on
me for a quarter's salary, which will be duly honored.
With great esteem, I have the honor to be, etc.,

B. Franklin.

Supposing Mr. Laurens to be in Holland with Mr.
Adams, I, at the same time, wrote to him the follow-
ing letter :

Passy, 20 April, 1782.

Sir: — I received, by Mr. Oswald, the letter you
did me the honor of writing to me on the 7th instant.
He brought me also a letter from Lord Shelbume,
which gave him the same good character that you do,
adding : ' ' He is fully apprised of my mind, and you
may give full credit to every thing he assures you of."
Mr. Oswald, however, could give me no other particu-
lars of his Lordship's mind but that he was sincerely
disposed to peace. As the message seemed therefore

1782] Benjamin Franklin 267

rather intended to procure or receive propositions
than to make any, I told Mr. Oswald that I could
make none but in concurrence with my colleagues in
the commission, and that, if we were together, we
should not treat but in conjunction with France;
and I proposed introducing him to M. de Vergennes,
which he accepted.

He made to that minister the same declaration
of the disposition of England to peace ; who replied
that France had assuredly the same good disposi-
tion ; that a treaty might be immediately begun, but
it must be for a general, not a particular peace.
That as to the place he thought Paris might be the
most convenient, as Spain had here already an am-
bassador, and the American Commissioners could
easily be assembled here; this upon a supposition
of the parties treating directly with each other with-
out the intervention of mediators ; but if the media-
tion was to be used it might be at Vienna. The
king, his master, however, was so truly disposed to
peace, that he would agree to any place that the king
of England should choose, and would, at the treaty,
give proof of the confidence that might be placed in
any engagements he should then enter into, by the
fidelity and exactitude with which he should observe
those he already had with his present allies.

Mr. Oswald is returned with these general an-
swers by the way of Calais, and expects to be here
again in a few days. I wish it might be convenient
for you and Mr. Adams to be here at the same time,
but if the present critical situation of affairs there
makes his being in Holland necessary just now, I

268 The Works of [1782

hope you may nevertheless be here, bringing with
you his opinion and advice. I have proposed to
Lord Shelburne to discharge you from the obhga-
tions you entered into at the time of your enlarge-
ment, that you may act more freely in the treaty
he desires.

I had done myself the honor of writing to you a
few days before the arrival of Mr. Oswald. My
letter went by Mr. Young, your secretary, and en-
closed a copy of your commission, with an offer of
money if you had occasion for any. Hoping that
you will not return to England before you have been
at Paris, I forbear enlarging on the state of our
affairs here and in Spain. M. de Vergennes told me
he should be very glad to see you here. I found Mr.
Oswald to answer perfectly the character you gave
me of him, and was much pleased with him. I have
the honor to be, etc.,

B. Franklin.

Just after I had despatched these letters I received
the following from Mr. Adams.

"Amsterdam, i6 April, 1782.

"Sir: — Yesterday noon Mr. William Vaughan, of
London, came to my house with Mr. Laurens, the
son of the president, and brought me a line from the
latter, and told me the president was at Haerlem
and desired to see me. I went to Haerlem and
found my old friend at the Golden Lion. He told
me he was come partly for his health and the pleasure
of seeing me, and partly to converse with me and
see if he had at present just ideas and views of things,

1782] Benjamin Franklin 269

at least to see if we agreed in sentiment, having been
desired by several of the new ministry to do so. I
asked him if he was at liberty. He said, No; that
he was still under parole, but at liberty to say what
he pleased to me. I told him that I could not com-
municate to him, being a prisoner, even his own
instructions, nor enter into any consultation with
him as one of our colleagues in the commission for
peace ; that all I should say to him would be as one
private citizen conversing with another; but that,
upon all such occasions, I should reserve a right to
communicate whatever should pass to oiu* colleagues
and allies.

"He said that Lord Shelbume and others of the
new ministers were anxious to know whether there
was any authority to treat of a separate peace, and
whether there could be an accommodation upon any
terms short of independence; that he had ever an-
swered them that nothing short of an express or
tacit acknowledgment of our independence, in his
opinion, would ever be accepted, and that no treaty
ever would or could be made separate from France.
He asked me if his answers had been right. I told
him that I was fully of that opinion. He said that
the new ministers had received Digges' report, but
his character was such that they did not choose to
depend upon it; that a person by the name of Os-
wald, I think, set off for Paris to see you about the
same time he came away to see me.

"I desired him, between him and me, to consider,
without saying any thing of it to the ministry,
whether we could ever have a real peace with Canada

270 The Works of [1782

or Nova Scotia in the hands of the EngHsh, and
whether we ought not to insist at least upon a stipu-
lation that they should keep no standing army or
regular troops, nor erect any fortifications upon the
frontiers of either. That at present I saw no motive
that we had to be anxious for a peace; and if the
nation was not ripe for it upon proper terms, we
might wait patiently till they should be so.

' ' I found the old gentleman perfectly sound in his
system of politics. He has a very poor opinion both
of the integrity and abilities of the new ministry, as
well as the old. He thinks they know not what they
are about; that they are spoiled by the same insin-
cerity, duplicity, falsehood, and corruption with the
former. Lord Shelbume still flatters the king with
ideas of conciliation and a separate peace, etc. ; yet
the nation and the best men in it are for universal
peace and an express acknowledgment of American
independence, and many of the best are for giving
up Canada and Nova Scotia. His design seemed to
be solely to know how far Digges' report was true.
After an hour or two of conversation, I returned to
Amsterdam, and left him to return to London.

"These are all but artifices to raise the stocks;
and if you think of any method to put a stop to them,
I will cheerfully concur with you. They now know
sufficiently that our commission is to treat of a general
peace, and with persons vested with equal powers,
and if you will agree to it I will, never to see another
messenger that is not a plenipotentiary.

" It is expected that the seventh province, Guelder-
land, will this day acknowledge American independ-

1782] Benjamin Franklin 271

ence. I think we are in such a situation that we
ought not, upon any consideration, to think of a
truce or any thing short of an express acknowledg-
ment of the sovereignty of the United States. I
should be glad, however, to know your sentiments
upon this point. I have the honor to be, etc.,

"John Adams."

To the above I immediately wrote the following
answer:

Passy, 20 April, 1782.

Sir: — I have just received the honor of yours,
dated the i6th instant, acquainting me with the in-
terview between your Excellency and Mr. Laurens.
I am glad to learn that his political sentiments
coincide with ours, and that there is a disposition in
England to give us up Canada and Nova Scotia.

I like your idea of seeing no more messengers that
are not plenipotentiaries ; but I cannot refuse seeing
again Mr. Oswald, as the minister here considered
the letter to me from Lord Shelbume as a kind of
authentication given that messenger, and expects
his return with some explicit propositions. I shall
keep you advised of whatever passes.

The late act of Parliament for exchanging Amer-
ican prisoners as prisoners of war, according to the
law of nations, any thing in their commitments not-
withstanding, seems to me a renunciation of their pre-
tensions to try our people as subjects guilty of high
treason, and to be a kind of tacit acknowledgment of
our independency. Having taken this step, it will

272 The Works of [1782

be less difficult for them to acknowledge it expressly.
They are now preparing transports to send the pris-
oners home. I yesterday sent the passports desired
of me.

Sir George Grand shows me a letter from Mr.
Fizeau, in which he says that, if advantage is taken
of the present enthusiasm in favor of America, a loan
might be obtained in Holland of five or six millions
of florins for America, and if their house is em-
powered to open it, he has no doubt of success, but
that no time is to be lost. I earnestly recommend
this matter to you as extremely necessary to the
operations of our financier, Mr. Morris, who, not
knowing that the greatest part of the last five mil-
lions had been consumed by purchase of goods, etc.,
in Europe, writes me advice of large drafts that he
shall be obliged to make upon me this summer.

This court has granted us six millions of livres
for the current year; but it will fall vastly short of
our occasions, there being large orders to fulfil, and
near two millions and a half to pay M. Beaumarchais,
besides the interest, bills, etc. The house of Fizeau
& Grand is now appointed banker for France by a
special commission from the king, and will, on that
as well as other accounts, be, in my opinion, the
fittest for this operation. Your Excellency, being
on the spot, can better judge of the terms, etc., and
manage with that house the whole business, in which
I should be glad to have no other concern than that
of receiving assistance from it when pressed by the
dreaded drafts. With great respect, I am, sir, etc.,

B. Franklin.

1782] Benjamin Franklin 273

In reply to this, Mr. Adams wrote to me as follows :

"Amsterdam, 2 May, 1782.

"Sir: — I am honored with your favor of the 20th
of April, and Mr. Laurens' son proposes to carry the
letter to his father forthwith. The instructions by
the courier from Versailles came safe, as all other
despatches by that channel, no doubt, will do. The
correspondence with Mr. Hartley I received by
Captain Smedley, and will take the first good op-
portunity by private hand to return it, as well as
that with the Earl of Shelbume.

"Mr. Laurens and Mr. Jay will, I hope, be able to
meet at Paris; but when it will be in my power to
go, I know not. Your present negotiation about
peace falls in very well to aid a proposition, which
I am instructed to make, as soon as the court of
Versailles shall judge proper, of a triple or quadruple
alliance. This matter, the treaty of commerce,
which is now under deliberation, and the loan, will
render it improper for me to quit this station, unless
in case of necessity. If there is a real disposition
to permit Canada to accede to the American asso-
ciation, I should think there would be no great diffi-
culty in adjusting all things between England and
America, provided our allies are contented too. In
a former letter I hinted that I thought an express ac-
knowledgment of our independence might now be
insisted on; but I did not mean that we should in-
sist upon such an article in the treaty. If they make
a treaty of peace with the United States of America,
this is acknowledgment enough for me.

"The affair of a loan gives me much anxiety and

274 The Works of [1782

fatigue. It is true, I may open a loan for five mil-
lions; but I confess I have no hopes of obtaining
so much. The money is not to be had. Cash is
not infinite in this country. Their profits by trade
have been ruined for two or three years; and there
are loans open for France, Spain, England, Russia,
Sweden, Denmark, and several other powers, as well
as their own national, provincial, and collegiate
loans. The undertakers are already loaded with
burdens greater than they can bear; and all the
brokers in the republic are so engaged that there is
scarcely a ducat to be lent but what is promised.

"This is the true cause why we should not suc-
ceed ; yet they will seek a hundred other pretences. It
is considered such an honor and such an introduction
to American trade to be the house, that the eager-
ness to obain the title of American banker is pro-
digious. Various houses have pretensions, which
they set up very high; and, let me choose which I
will, I am sure of a cry and clamor.

"I have taken some measures to endeavor to calm
the heat, and give general satisfaction, but have as
yet small hopes of success. I would strike with any
house that would insure the money, but none will
undertake it, now it is offered, although several were
very ready to affirm that they could, when it began
to be talked of. Upon inquiry, they do not find the
money easy to obtain, which I could have told them
before. It is to me, personally, perfectly indifferent
which is the house; and the only question is, which
will be able to do best for the interests of the United
States. This question, however simple, is not easy

1782] Benjamin Franklin 275

to answer. But I think it clear, after very painful
and laborious inquiry for a year and a half, that no
house whatever will be able to do much. Enthusi-
asm, at some times and in some countries, may do a
great deal ; but there has as yet been no enthusiasm
in this country for America strong enough to untie
many purses. Another year, if the war continues,
perhaps we may do better. I have the honor to be,
etc., "John Adams."

During Mr. Oswald's absence, I received the fol-
lowing from Mr. Laurens :

"London, 20 April, 1782.

''Sir: — I wrote to you on the 7th instant, by Mr.
Oswald, since which, that is to say, on the 28th, I
was honored by the receipt of your letter of the 1 2th,
enclosing a copy of the commission for treating for
peace, by the hands of Mr. Young. The recogniz-
ance, exacted from me by the late ministry, has been
vacated and done away by the present; these have
been pleased to enlarge me without formal condi-
tions; but, as I would not consent that the United
States of America should be outdone in generosity,
however late the marks appeared on this side, I took
upon me to assure Lord Shelbume, in a letter of
acknowledgment for the part which his Lordship had
taken for obtaining my release, that Congress would
not fail to make a just and adequate return. The
only return, in my view, is Lieutenant-General Lord
Cornwallis. Congress were pleased some time ago,
to offer a British lieutenant-general for my ransom;
and, as I am informed a special exchange of Lord
Cornwallis for the same object was lately in contem-

276 The Works of [1782

plation, it would afford me very great satisfaction to
know that you will join me in cancelling the debt of
honor which we have impliedly incurred, by discharg-
ing his Lordship from the obligations of his parole.

* ' For my own part, though not a bold adventurer,
I think I shall not commit myself to the risk of cen-
sure by acting conjunctly with you in such a bar-
gain. I entreat you, sir, at least to reflect on this
matter; I shall take the liberty of requesting your
determination when I reach the Continent, which
will probably happen in a few days.

"Lord Comwallis, in a late conversation with me,
put the following case: 'Suppose,' said his Lordship,
'it shall have been agreed, in America, that Lord
Comwallis should be offered in exchange for Mr.
Laurens; don't you think, although you are now
discharged, I ought to reap the intended benefit?'
A reply from the feelings of the heart, as I love fair
play, was prompt: 'Undoubtedly, my Lord, you
ought to be, and shall be, in such case, discharged,
and I will venture to take the burden upon myself.'
Certain legal forms, I apprehend, rendered the dis-
charge of me, without condition, unavoidable ; but I
had previously refused to accept of myself for no-
thing, and what I now aim at was understood as an
adequate return; it is not to be doubted his Lord-
ship's question was built on this ground.

"I had uniformly and explicitly declared to the
people here, people in the first rank of importance,
that nothing short of independence, in terms of our
treaty of alliance, would induce America to treat for
truce or peace, and that no treaty could be had

1782] Benjamin Franklin 277

without the consent of our ally first obtained; in a
word, if you mean to have peace, you must seek
for a general peace. The doctrine was ill relished,
especially by those whose power only could set
the machine in motion ; but having, since my return
from Haerlem, asserted, in very positive terms, that
I was confirmed in my former opinions, the late
obduracy has been more than a little softened, as you
will soon learn from the worthy friend, by whom I
addressed you on the 7 th, who two days ago set out
on his return to Passy and Versailles, with, I believe,
a more permanent commission than the former.

"Accept my thanks, sir, for the kind offer of a
supply of money. I know too well how much you
have been harassed for that article, and too well how
low our American finances in Europe are ; therefore,
if I can possibly avoid it, I will not further trouble
you, nor impoverish them, or not till the last ex-
tremity. Hitherto I have supported myself with-
out borrowing from anybody, and I am determined
to continue living upon my own stock while it lasts ;
the stock is indeed small; my expenses have been
and shall be in a suitable, modest style. I pray God
to bless you. I have the honor to be, etc.,

"Henry Laurens.

"P. S. — I judged it proper not only to show the
peace commission to Lord Shelbume, but to give his
Lordship a copy of it, from an opinion that it would
work no evil, being shown elsewhere."

On the 4th of May Mr. Oswald returned, and
brought me the following letter from Lord Shelburne :

2 78 The Works of [1782

"Shelburne House, 20 April, 1782.

"Dear Sir: — I have received much satisfaction in
being assured by you that the quaUfications of wis-
dom and integrity, which induced me to make choice
of Mr. Oswald as the fittest instrument for the re-
newal of our friendly intercourse, have also recom-
mended him so effectually to your approbation and
esteem. I most heartily wish the influence of this
first communication of our mutual sentiments may
be extended to a happy conclusion of all our public
differences.

"The candor with which the Count de Vergennes
expresses his Most Christian Majesty's sentiments
and wishes, on the subject of a speedy pacification,
is a pleasing omen of its accomplishment. His Ma-
jesty is not less decided in the same sentiments and
wishes, and it confirms his Majesty's ministers in
their intention to act in like manner, as most con-
sonant to the true dignity of a great nation. In
consequence of these reciprocal advances, Mr. Oswald
is sent back to Paris, for the purpose of arranging and
setthng with you the preliminaries of time and place;
and I have the pleasure to tell you that Mr. Laurens
is already discharged from those engagements which
he entered into when he was admitted to bail.

"It is also determined that Mr. Fox, from, whose
department that communication is necessarily to
proceed, shall send a proper person, who may confer
and settle immediately with the Count de Vergennes
the further measures and proceedings which may be
judged proper to adopt toward advancing the prose-
cution of this important business.

1782] Benjamin Franklin 279

"In the meantime, Mr. Oswald is instructed to
communicate to you my thoughts upon the principal
objects to be settled. Transports are actually pre-
paring for the purpose of conveying your prisoners
to America, to be there exchanged ; and we trust that
you will learn that due attention has not been want-
ing to their accommodation and good treatment.

"I have the honor to be, with very sincere respect,

dear sir, your very faithful and obedient, humble

servant,

"Shelburne."

Having read the letter, I mentioned to Mr. Oswald
the part which refers me to him for his Lordship's
sentiments. He acquainted me that they were very
sincerely disposed to peace ; that the whole ministry
concurred in the same disposition ; that a good deal
of confidence was placed in my character for open,
honest dealing ; that it was also generally believed I
had still remaining some part of my ancient affec-
tion and regard for Old England, and it was hoped
it might appear on this occasion. He then showed
me an extract from the minutes of council, but did
not leave the paper with me. As well as I can re-
member, it was to this purpose :

"At a Cabinet Council, held April 27, 1782, pres-
ent. Lord Rockingham, Lord Chancellor, Lord Presi-
dent, Lord Camden, etc., etc., to the number of
fifteen or twenty, being all ministers and great officers
of state.

"It was proposed to represent to his Majesty that
it would be well for Mr. Oswald to return to Doctor

28o The Works of [1782

Franklin, and acquaint him that it is agreed to treat
for a general peace, and at Paris; and that the prin-
cipal points in contemplation are, the allowing of
American independence, on condition that England
be put into the same situation that she was left in by
the peace of 1763."

Mr. Oswald also informed me that he had con-
versed with Lord Shelburne on the subject of my
paper of Notes, relating to reconciliation. That he
had shown him the paper, and had been prevailed on
to leave it with him a night ; but it was on his Lord-
ship's solemn promise of returning it, which had been
complied with, and he now returned it to me. That
it seemed to have made an impression, and he had
reason to believe that matter might be settled to
our satisfaction towards the end of the treaty; but
in his own mind he wished it might not be men-
tioned at the beginning. That his Lordship indeed
said he had not imagined reparation would be ex-
pected, and he wondered I should not know whether
it was intended to demand it. Finally, Mr. Oswald
acquainted me that as the business now likely to be
brought forward more particularly appertained to
the department of the other secretary, Mr. Fox, he
was directed to announce another agent coming from
that department, who might be expected every day,
viz., the honorable Mr. Grenville, brother to Lord
Temple, and son of the famous Mr. George Gren-
ville, formerly Chancellor of the Exchequer. I im-
mediately wrote the following note to the Count de
Vergennes:

1782] Benjamin Franklin 281

Passy, 4 May, 1782.

Sir : — I have the honor to acquaint your Excel-
lency that Mr. Oswald is just returned from London,
and is now with me. He has delivered me a letter
from Lord Shelbume, which I enclose for your perus-
al, together with a copy of my letter to which it is
an answer. He tells me that it has been agreed in
council to treat at Paris, and to treat of a general
peace; and that, as it is more particularly in the
department of Mr. Fox to regulate the circumstan-
tials, a gentleman, Mr. Grenville, to be sent by him
for that purpose, may be daily expected here. Mr.
Oswald will wait on your Excellency whenever you
shall think fit to receive him. I am, with respect,
etc.,

B. Franklin.

And the next day I received the following answer:

"Versailles, 5 May, 1782.

"Sir: — I have received the letter which you did
me the honor to write to me the 4th instant, as also
those which accompanied it. I will see you with
your friend, with pleasure, at eleven o'clock to-
morrow morning. I have the honor to be, etc.,

"De Vergennes."

Accordingly, on Monday morning I went with Mr.
Oswald to Versailles, and we saw the minister. Mr.
Oswald acquainted him with the disposition of his
court to treat for a general peace, and at Paris;
and he announced Mr. Grenville, who, he said, was
to set out about the same time with him, but, as he

282 The Works of [1782

would probably come by the way of Ostend, might
be a few days longer on the road. Some general con-
versation passed, agreeable enough, but not of
importance.

In our return Mr. Oswald repeated to me his
opinion that the affair of Canada would be settled to
our satisfaction, and his wish that it might not be
mentioned till towards the end of the treaty. He
intimated, too, that it was apprehended the greatest
obstructions in the treaty might come from the part
of Spain; but said, if she was unreasonable, there
were means to bring her to reason. That Russia was
a friend to England, had lately made great discov-
eries on the back of North America, could make
establishments there, and might easily transport an
army from Kamschatka to the coast of Mexico, and
conquer all those countries. This appeared a little
visionary, at present, but I did not dispute it.

On the whole, I was able to draw so little from
Mr. Oswald of the sentiments of Lord Shelbume,
who had mentioned him as intrusted with the com-
munication of them, that I could not but wonder at
his being sent again to me, especially as Mr. Gren-
ville was so soon to follow.

On Tuesday I was at court, as usual on that day.
M. de Vergennes asked me if Mr. Oswald had not
opened himself further to me. I acquainted him
with the sight I had had of the minute of council,
and of the loose expressions contained in it, of what
was in contemplation. He seemed to think it odd
that he had brought nothing more explicit. I sup-
posed Mr. Grenville might be better furnished. The

1782] Benjamin Franklin 283

next morning I wrote the following letter to Mr.
Adams :

Passy, 8 May, 1782.

Sir:— Mr. Oswald, whom I mentioned in a for-
mer letter, which I find you have received, is re-
turned, and brought me another letter from Lord
Shelburne, of which the above is a copy. It says
Mr. Oswald is instructed to commtmicate to me his
Lordship's thoughts. He is, however, very sparing
of such communication. All I have got from him is,
that the ministry have in contemplation the allowing
independence to America, on condition of Britain
being put again into the state she was left in by the
peace of 1763, which I suppose means being put
again in the possession of the islands which France
has taken from her. This seems to me a proposition
of selling to us a thing that was already our own,
and making France pay the price they are pleased
to ask for it.

Mr. Grenville, who is sent by Mr. Fox, is ex-
pected here daily. Mr. Oswald tells me that Mr.
Laurens will soon be here also. Yours of the 2d
instant is just come to hand. I shall write to you
on this affair hereafter by the court couriers; for I
am certain that your letters to me are opened at the
post-office, either here or in Holland, and I suppose
that mine to you are treated in the same manner.
I enclose the cover of your last, that you may see
the seal. With great respect, I am, sir, etc.,

B. Franklin.
I had but just sent away this letter, when Mr.
Oswald came in, bringing with him Mr. Grenville,

284 The Works of [1782

who was just arrived. He gave me the following
letter from Mr. Secretary Fox:

"St. James, i May, 1782.

"Sir: — Though Mr. Oswald will no doubt have
informed you of the nature of Mr. Grenville's com-
mission, yet I cannot refrain from making use of the
opportunity that his going offers me, to assure you
of the esteem and respect which I have borne to your
character, and to beg you to believe that no change
in my situation has made any in those ardent wishes
for reconciliation which I have invariably felt from
the very beginning of this unhappy contest.

"Mr. Grenville is fully acquainted with my senti-
ments upon this subject, and with the sangiiine hopes
which I have conceived, that those with whom we
are contending are too reasonable to continue a con-
test which has no longer any object, either real or
even imaginary. I know your liberality of mind too
well to be afraid lest any prejudices against Mr.
Grenville's name may prevent you from esteeming
those excellent qualities of heart and head which
belong to him, or from giving the fullest credit to
the sincerity of his wishes for peace, in which no
man in either country goes beyond him. I am, with
great truth and regard, etc.,

"C. J. Fox."

I imagined the gentleman had been at Versailles,
as I supposed Mr. Grenville would first have waited
on M. de Vergennes before he called on me. But
finding, in conversation, that he had not, and that
he expected me to introduce him, I immediately

1782] Benjamin Franklin 285

wrote to that minister, acquainting him that Mr.
Grenville was arrived, and desired to know when his
Excellency would think fit to receive him, and I sent
an express with my letter.

I then entered into conversation with him on the
subject of his mission, Mr. Fox having referred me
to him as being fully acquainted with his sentiments.
He said that peace was really wished for by every-
body, if it coiild be obtained on reasonable terms;
and as the idea of subjugating America was given up,
and both France and America had thereby obtained
what they had in view originally, it was hoped that
there now remained no obstacle to a pacification.
That England was willing to treat of a general peace
with all the powers at war against her, and that the
treaty should be at Paris.

I did not press him much for further particulars,
supposing they were reserved for oiu* interview with
M. de Vergennes. The gentlemen did me the honor
of staying to dinner with me, on the supposition,
which I urged, that my express might be back before
we parted. This gave me an opportunity of a good
deal of general conversation with Mr. Grenville, who
appeared to me a sensible, judicious, intelligent,
good-tempered, and well-instructed young man, an-
swering well the character Mr. Fox had given me of
him.

They left me, however, about six o'clock, and my
messenger did not return till near nine. He brought
me the answer of the Count de Vergennes, that he
was glad to hear of Mr. Grenville's arrival, and
would be ready to receive us to-morrow at half past

286 The Works of [1782

ten or eleven o'clock. I immediately enclosed his
note in one to Mr. Grenville, requesting him to be
with me at Passy by eight, that we might have time
to breakfast before we set out. I have preserved no
copy of these three last-mentioned notes, or I should
have inserted them, as I think that, though they seem
of almost too trifling a nature, they serve usefully
sometimes to settle dates, authenticate facts, and
show something of the turn and manner of thinking
of the writers on particular occasions. The answer
I received was as follows:

"Mr. Grenville presents his compliments to Mr.
Franklin, and will certainly do himself the honor of
waiting upon Mr. Franklin to-morrow morning at
eight o'clock.

"Rue de Richelieu, Wednesday night."

We set out accordingly the next morning in my
coach, and arrived punctually at Count de Ver-
gennes', who received Mr. Grenville in the most cor-
dial manner, on account of the acquaintance and
friendship that had formerly subsisted between his
uncle and the Count de Vergennes, when they were
ambassadors together at Constantinople.

After some little agreeable conversation, Mr. Gren-
ville presented his letters from Mr. Secretary Fox,
and, I think, from the Duke of Richmond. When
these were read, the subject of peace was entered
upon. What my memory retains of the discourse
amounts to little more than this, that, after mutual
declarations of the good dispositions of the two
courts, Mr. Grenville having intimated that, in case

1782] Benjamin Franklin 287

England gave America independence, France, it was
expected, wotild restore the conquests she had made
of British islands, receiving back those of Miquelon
and St. Pierre. And, the original object of the war
being obtained, it was supposed that France would
be contented with that. The minister seemed to
smile at the proposed exchange, and remarked, the
offer of giving independence to America amounted
to little. "America," said he, "does not ask it of
you ; there is Mr. Franklin, he will answer you as to
that point." "To be sure," I said, "we do not con-
sider ourselves as imder any necessity of bargaining
for a thing that is our own, which we have bought
at the expense of much blood and treasure, and
which we are in possession of." "As to otir being
satisfied with the original object of the war," con-
tinued he, "look back to the conduct of your nation
in former wars. In the last war, for example, what
was the object? It was the disputed right of some
waste lands on the Ohio and the frontiers of Nova
Scotia. Did you content yourselves with the recov-
ery of those lands? No, you retained at the peace
all Canada, all Louisiana, all Florida, Grenada, and
other West India islands, the greatest part of the
northern fisheries, with all your conquests in Africa
and the East Indies." Something being mentioned
of its not being reasonable that a nation, after making
an unprovoked and unsuccessful war upon its neigh-
bors, should expect to sit down whole and have
every thing restored which she had lost in such a war,
I think Mr. Grenville remarked, the war had been
provoked by the encouragement given by France to

288 The Works of [1782

the Americans to revolt. On which the Count de
Vergennes grew a Httle warm, and declared, firmly,
that the breach was made, and our independence
declared, long before we received the least encourage-
ment from France; and he defied the world to give
the smallest proof of the contrary. "There sits,"
said he, "Mr. Franklin, who knows the fact, and can
contradict me if I do not speak the truth."

He repeated to Mr. Grenville what he had before
said to Mr. Oswald, respecting the king's intention
of treating fairly, and keeping faithfully the conven-
tions he should enter into, of which disposition he
should give at the treaty convincing proofs by the
fidelity and exactitude with which he should observe
his engagements with his present allies, and added
that the points which the king had chiefly in view
were justice and dignity; these he could not depart
from. He acquainted Mr. Grenville that he should
immediately write to Spain and Holland, communi-
cate to those courts what had passed, and request
their answers; that, in the meantime, he hoped Mr.
Grenville would find means of amusing himself agree-
ably, to which he should be glad to contribute ; that
he would communicate what had passed to the king,
and he invited him to come again the next day.

On our return Mr. Grenville expressed himself as
not quite satisfied with some part of the Coimt de
Vergennes' discourse, and was thoughtful. He told
me that he had brought two state messengers with
him, and perhaps, after he had had another inter-
view with the minister, he might despatch one of
them to London. I then requested leave to answer,

1782] Benjamin Franklin 289

by that opportunity, the letters I had received from
Lord Shelbume and Mr. Fox, and he kindly pro-
mised to acquaint me in time of the messenger's de-
parture. He did not ask me to go with him the
next day to Versailles, and I did not offer it.

The coming and going of these gentlemen were
observed, and made much talk at Paris; and the
Marquis de Lafayette, having learned something of
their business from the minister, discoursed with me
about it. Agreeably to the resolutions of Congress,
directing me to confer with him and take his assist-
ance in our affairs, I communicated with him what
had passed. He told me that, during the treaty at
Paris for the last peace, the Duke de Nivemais had
been sent to reside in London, that this court might,
through him, state what was from time to time
transacted in the light they thought best, to prevent
misrepresentations and misunderstandings. That
such an employ woiild be extremely agreeable to
him on many accounts; that as he was now an
American citizen, spoke both languages, and was
well acquainted with our interests, he believed he
might be useful in it ; and that, as peace was likely,
from appearances, to take place, his return to Amer-
ica was perhaps not so immediately necessary. I
liked the idea, and encouraged his proposing it to the
ministry. He then wished I would make him ac-
quainted with Messrs. Oswald and Grenville, and for
that end proposed meeting them at breakfast with
me, which I promised to contrive if I could, and
endeavor to engage them for Saturday.

Friday morning, the loth of May, I went to Paris

290 The Works of [1782

and visited Mr. Oswald. I found him in the same
friendly dispositions, and very desirous of good, and
seeing an end put to this ruinous war. But I got no
further sight as to the sentiments of Lord Shelbume
respecting the terms. I told him the Marquis de
Lafayette would breakfast with me to-morrow, and
as he, Mr. Oswald, might have some curiosity to see
a person who had in this war rendered himself so
remarkable, I proposed his doing me the same honor.
He agreed to it cheerfully. I came home intending
to write to Mr. Grenville, who I supposed might stay
and dine at Versailles, and therefore did not call on
him. But he was returned, and I found the follow-
ing note from him :

"Paris, io May, 1782.

"Mr. Grenville presents his compliments to Mr.
Franklin ; he proposes sending a courier to England
at ten o'clock to-night, and will give him in charge
any letters Mr. Franklin may wish to send by him."

I sat down immediately and wrote the two short
letters following to the secretaries of state :

TO CHARLES J. FOX

Passy, 10 May, 1782.

Sir : — I received the letter you did me the honor
of writing to me by Mr. Grenville, whom I find to
be a sensible, judicious, and amiable gentleman. The
name, I assure you, does not with me lessen the
regard his excellent qualities inspire. I introduced
him as soon as possible to Count de Vergennes; he
will himself give you an account of his reception. I

1782] Benjamin Franklin 291

hope his coming may forward the blessed work of
pacification, in which, for the sake of humanity, no
time should be lost; no reasonable cause, as you
observe, existing for the continuance of this abomin-
able war. Be assured of my endeavors to put an
end to it.

I am much flattered by the good opinion of a
person I have long highly esteemed, and I hope it
will not be lessened by my conduct in the affair
that has given rise to our correspondence. With
great respect, I have the honor to be, etc.,

B. Franklin.

TO LORD SHELBURNE

Passy, 10 May, 1782.

My Lord: — I have received the honor of your
Lordship's letter, dated the 28th past, by Mr.
Oswald, informing me that he is sent back to settle
with me the preliminaries of time and place. Paris,
as the place, seemed to me yesterday to be agreed on,
between Mr. Grenville and M. de Vergennes, and is
perfectly agreeable to me. The time cannot well be
settled till this court has received answers from
Madrid and the Hague, and until my colleagues are
arrived. I expect daily Messrs. Jay and Laurens.
Mr. Adams doubts whether he can be here, but that
will not hinder our proceeding.

It gave me great pleasure to hear Mr. Laurens is
discharged entirely from the obligations he had
entered into. I am much obliged by the readiness,
with which your Lordship has conferred that favor.
Please to accept my thankful acknowledgments.

292 The Works of [1782

I am happy, too, in understanding from your
letter that transports are actually preparing to con-
vey our prisoners to America, and that attention
will be paid to their accommodation and good treat-
ment. Those people on their return will be dispersed
through every part of America, and the accounts
they will have to give of any marks of kindness
received by them under the present ministry, will
lessen much the resentment of their friends against
the nation for the hardships they suffered under the
past.

Mr. Oswald rests here awhile by my advice, as I
think his presence likely to be useful. With great
and sincere respect, I have the honor to be, etc.,

B. Franklin.

And I sent them to Mr. Grenville with the follow-
ing note:

Mr. Franklin presents his compliments to Mr.
Grenville, and thanks him for the information of his
courier's departure, and his kind offer of forwarding
Mr. Franklin's letter; he accepts the favor and en-
closes two.

The Marquis de Lafayette and Mr. Oswald will
do Mr. Franklin the honor of breakfasting with him
to-morrow between nine and ten o'clock. Mr.
Franklin will also be happy to have the company of
Mr. Grenville if agreeable to him. He should have
waited upon Mr. Grenville to-day at Paris, but he
imagined Mr. Grenville was at Versailles.

Passy, Friday evening. May loth.

1782] Benjamin Franklin 293

To which Mr. Grenville sent me this answer:

"Mr. Grenville presents his compliments to Mr.
Franklin, and will, with great pleasure, do himself
the honor of breakfasting with Mr. Franklin to-
morrow between nine and ten o'clock. Mr. Gren-
ville was at Versailles to-day, and should have been
sorry if Mr. Franklin should have given himself the
trouble of calling at Paris this morning. The courier
shall certainly take particular care of Mr. Franklin's
letters.

"Paris, Friday, May loth."

The gentlemen all met accordingly, had a good
deal of conversation at and after breakfast, stayed
till after one o'clock, and parted much pleased with
each other.

The Monday following, I called to visit Mr. Gren-
ville. I found with him Mr. Oswald, who told me he
was just about returning to London. I was a little
surprised at the suddenness of the resolution he had
taken, it being, as he said, to set out the next morn-
ing early. I conceived the gentleman was engaged
in business, so I withdrew, and went to write a few
letters, among which was the following to Lord Shel-
bume, being really concerned at the thought of los-
ing so good a man as Mr. Oswald :

Passy, 13 May, 1782.

My Lord: — I did myself the honor of writing to
your Lordship a few days since, by Mr. Grenville's
courier, acknowledging the receipt of yours of the
28th past, by Mr. Oswald.

I then hoped that gentleman would have re-

294 The Works of [1782

mained here some time, but his affairs, it seems,
recall him sooner than he imagined. I hope he will
return again, as I esteem him more, the more I am
acquainted with him, and believe his moderation,
prudent counsels, and sound judgment may con-
tribute much, not only to the speedy conclusion of a
peace, but to the framing of such a peace as may
be firm and lasting. With great respect, etc.,

B. Franklin.

I went in the evening to Mr. Oswald's lodging
with my letters, when he informed me his intention
was to return immediately hither from England ; and,
to make the more despatch in going and returning,
he should leave his carriage at Calais, as the em-
barking and debarking of carriages in the packet
boats often occasioned a tide's delay. I did not in-
quire the reason of this movement. We had but
little conversation, for Mr. Grenville coming in, I
soon after wished him a good journey and retired,
that I might not interrupt their consultations.

Since his departure, Mr. Grenville has made me a
visit; and entered into conversation with me, ex-
actly of the same tenor with the letters I formerly
received from Mr. Hartley, stating suppositions that
France might insist on points totally different from
what had been the object of our alliance, and that,
in such case, he should imagine we were not at all
boimd to continue the war to obtain such points for
her, etc. I thought I cotdd not give him a better
answer to this kind of discourse than what I had
given in two letters to Mr. Hartley, and, therefore.

1782] Benjamin Franklin 295

calling for those letters, I read them to him. He
smiled, and would have turned the conversation ; but
I gave a little more of my sentiments on the general
subject of benefits, obhgation, and gratitude. I said
I thought people had often imperfect notions of their
duty on those points, and that a state of obligation
was to many so uneasy a state that they became
ingenious in finding out reasons and argimients to
prove that they had been laid under no obligation at
all, or that they had discharged it, and they too
easily satisfied themselves with such argimients.

To explain clearly my ideas on the subject, I stated
a case. A, a stranger to B, sees him about to be
imprisoned for a debt by a merciless creditor; he
lends him the sum necessary to preserve his liberty.
B then becomes the debtor of A, and, after some
time, repays the money. Has he then discharged
the obligation? No. He has discharged the money
debt, but the obligation remains, and he is a debtor
for the kindness of A, in lending him the sum so
seasonably. If B should afterwards find A in the
same circumstances that he, B, had been in when A
lent him the money, he may then discharge this
obligation or debt of kindness, in part, by lending
him an equal sum. In part, I said, and not wholly,
because when A lent B the money there had been
no prior benefit received to induce him to it. And,
therefore, if A should a second time need the same
assistance, I thought B, if in his power, was in duty
bound to afford it to him.

Mr. Grenville conceived that it was carrying grati-
tude very far to apply this doctrine to our situation

296 The Works of [1782

in respect to France, who was really the party served
and obliged by our separation from England, as it
lessened the power of her rival and relatively in-
creased her own.

I told him I was so strongly impressed with the
kind assistance afforded us by France in our distress,
and the generous and noble manner in which it was
granted without extracting or stipulating for a single
privilege or particular advantage to herself in our
commerce, or otherwise, that I could never siiffer
myself to think of such reasonings for lessening the
obligation, and I hoped, and, indeed, did not doubt,
but my countrymen were all of the same sentiments.

Thus he gained nothing of the point he came to
push ; we parted, however, in good humor. His con-
versation is always polite, and his manner pleasing.
As he expressed a strong desire to discourse with me
on the means of a reconciliation with America, I
promised to consider the subject, and appointed
Saturday, the first day of June, for our conversation,
when he proposed to call on me. The same day I
received another letter from my old friend, Mr.
Hartley. Our former correspondence on the sub-
ject of peace since the beginning of this year I have
kept by itself, as it preceded this, was in the time of
the old ministry, and consisted wholly of letters im-
mixed with personal conversation. This being the
first letter from him under the new ministry, and as
it may be followed by others, which may relate to
the negotiation, I insert it here, with my answer,
and shall continue to insert the future letters I may
receive from him relative to the same subject.

17S2] Benjamin Franklin 297

"London, 3 May, 1782.

"My Dear Friend: — I write to you only one line,
just to inform you that a general order is issued by
our government for the release of all the American
prisoners ever)rwhere. I have had this from Lord
Shelbume, who informed me that the order was not
partial or conditional, but general and absolute. I
heartily congratulate you upon this first step towards
sweet reconciliation. I hope other things will follow.
I had a long conversation with Lord Shelbume re-
lating to America, in which he expressed himself in
most favorable terms. I shall have the honor of
seeing and conversing with you again. But at pres-
ent, as you know, certain matters are depending
from your side of the water.

"Mr. Laurens is entirely at liberty. I see him
very frequently, and when you see him he will tell
you many things from me, which have occurred to
me in my poor endeavours to promote the cause of
peace. Da pacem, Domine, in diebus nostris. Your
affectionate, etc.,

"D. Hartley."

TO DAVID HARTLEY

Passy, 13 May, 1782.

My Dear Friend: — I have just received your
favor of the 3d instant. I thank you much for the
good news you give me, that * an order is issued by
your government for the release of all the American
prisoners everywhere, an order not partial or con-
ditional, but general and absolute.' I rejoice with
you in this step, not only on account of the unhappy
captives, who by it will be set at liberty and restored

298 The Works of [1782

to their friends and famihes, but as I think it will
tend greatly towards a reconciliation, on which alone
the hope of a durable peace can be founded. I am
much indebted to your good brother for a very kind
and obliging letter, which was mislaid when it should
have been answered. I beg you would present to
him my thankful acknowledgments and my sincere
respects. I join you most heartily in the prayer
that ends your letter. Da pacem, Domine, in diehus
nostris. I am ever, my friend, yours most affec-
tionately, B. Franklin.

Our business standing still at present, till the re-
turn of Mr. Oswald, gives me a void, that I may fill
up with two or three circumstances not at present
connected with this intended treaty, but which serve
to show something of the disposition of courts who
have, or may have, a concern in it.

Mr. Jay had written to me, from time to time of
the unaccountable delays he has met with since his
residence at the court of Spain, and that he was now
no nearer in the business he had been charged with
than when he first arrived. Upon the first coming
of Mr. Oswald, and the apparent prospect of a treaty,
I wrote to press his coming hither, and, being a little
out of humor with that court, I said: They have
taken four years to consider whether they should
treat with us, give them forty, and let us mind our
own business; and I sent the letter under cover to
a person at Madrid, who I hoped would open and
read it.

It seems to me that we have, in most instances,

1782] Benjamin Franklin 299

hurt our credit and importance by sending all over
Europe, begging alliances and soliciting declarations
of our independence. The nations, perhaps, from
thence seemed to think that our independence is
something they have to sell and that we do not offer
enough for it. Mr. Adams has succeeded in Hol-
land, owing to their war with England, and a good
deal to the late votes in the Commons towards a
reconciliation ; but the ministers of the other powers
refused, as I hear, to return his visits because our
independence was not yet acknowledged by their
courts. I had heard here, by good luck, that the
same resolution was taken by several of them not to
return the visits I should make them (as they sup-
posed) when I was first received here as Minister
Plenipotentiary, and disappointed their project by
visiting none of them. In my private opinion, the
first civility is due from the old resident to the
stranger and new-comer. My opinion, indeed, is
good for nothing against custom, which I should have
obeyed, but for the circumstances, that rendered it
more prudent to avoid disputes and affronts, though
at the hazard of being thought rude or singular.

While I am writing, something ridiculous enough
on this head has happened to me. The Count du
Nord, who is son of the Empress of Russia, arriv-
ing at Paris, ordered, it seems, cards of visit to be
sent to all the foreign ministers. One of them, on
which was written, "L^ Comte du Nord et le Prince
Bariatinski,'" was brought to me. It was on Monday
evening last. Being at court the next day, I in-
quired of an old minister, my friend, what was the

300 The Works of [1782

etiquette, and whether the Count received visits.
The answer was: ''Non; on se fait ecrire; voila tout.''
This is done by passing the door and ordering your
name to be written on the porter's book. Accord-
ingly, on Wednesday I passed the house of Prince
Bariatinski, Ambassador of Russia, where the Count
lodged, and left my name on the list of each. I
thought no more of the matter; but this day, May
the 24th, comes the servant who brought the card,
in great affliction, saying he was like to be ruined
by his mistake in bringing the card here, and wish-
ing to obtain from me some paper, of I know not
what kind, for I did not see him.

In the afternoon came my friend, M. Le Roy, who
is also a friend of the Prince's, telling me how much
he, the Prince, was concerned at the accident, that
both himself and the Count had great personal re-
gard for me and my character, but that, our inde-
pendence not yet being acknowledged by the court
of Russia, it was impossible for him to permit him-
self to make me a visit as minister. I told M. Le
Roy it was not my custom to seek such honors,
though I was very sensible of them when conferred
upon me; that I should not have voluntarily in-
truded a visit, and that, in this case, I had only
done what I was informed the etiquette required of
me; but if it would be attended with any incon-
venience to Prince Bariatinski, whom I much es-
teemed and respected, I thought the remedy was
easy ; he had only to erase my name out of his book
of visits received, and I would bum their card.

All the northern princes are not ashamed of a

1782] Benjamin Franklin 301

little civility committed towards an American. The
king of Denmark, travelling in England under an
assumed name, sent me a card expressing in strong
terms his esteem for me and inviting me to dinner
with him at St. James'. And the ambassador from
the king of Sweden lately asked me whether I had
powers to make a treaty of commerce with their
kingdom, for, he said, his master was desirous of
such a treaty with the United States, had directed
him to ask me the question, and had charged him to
tell me that it would flatter him greatly to make it
with a person whose character he so much esteemed,
etc. Such compliments might make me a little
proud, if we Americans were not naturally as much
so already as the porter, who, being told he had
with his burden jostled the Great Czar, Peter, then
in London, walking the street: "Poh!" says he, ''we
are all Czars here.''

I did not write by Mr. Oswald to Mr. Laurens,
because, from some expressions in his last to me, I
expected him here, and I desired Mr. Oswald, if he
found him still in London, or met him on the road,
to give him that reason. I am disappointed in my
expectation, for I have now received (May 25th) the
following letter from him:

"OsTEND, 17 May, 1782.

"Sir: — I had the honor of addressing you on the
30th ultimo by post, a duplicate of which will accom-
pany this, in order to guard against the effect of a
miscarriage in the first instance, and I beg leave to
refer you to the contents.

302 The Works of [1782

"On the loth current and no sooner, your very
obHging favor of the 20th preceding reached me in
London. Being then on the point of leaving that
place, I deferred a reply until my arrival on this side.
This happened yesterday, too late to catch the post
of the day, except by a single letter, put into my
hands, I believe, by Dr. Price, which I sent forward.

"I sincerely and heartily thank you, sir, for the
cordial contents of your last letter; but, from the
most mature reflection, and taking into considera-
tion my present very infirm state of health, I have
resolved to decline accepting the honor intended me
by Congress, in the commission for treating with
Great Britain, and I find the less difficulty in coming
to this determination, from a persuasion in my own
mind that my assistance is not essential, and that
it was not the view or expectation of our constitu-
ents that every one named in the commission should
act. I purpose to repair to, or near Mr. Adams, and
inquire of him whether I may yet be serviceable
under the commission to which I had been first ap-
pointed, that for borrowing money for the use of the
United States. If he speaks in the affirmative, I
shall, though much against my own grain, as is well
known at our little court, proceed in the mission
with diligence and fidelity; otherwise, I shall take
a convenient opportunity of returning to give an
account there, of having in the course of two years
and upwards done nothing, excepting only the mak-
ing a great number of rebels in the enemy's country,
and reconciling thousands to the doctrine of abso-
lute and imlimited independence; a doctrine which

1782] Benjamin Franklin 303

I asserted and maintained with as much freedom in
the Tower of London, as I ever had done in the State
House at Philadelphia ; and having contentedly sub-
mitted to the loss of my estate, and being ready to
lay down my life in support of it, I had the satisfac-
tion of perceiving the coming of converts every day.
I must not, however, conclude this head without
assuring you that should you think proper to ask
questions respecting American commerce, or the in-
terest of any particular State, I will answer with
candor and the best judgment I am possessed of;
but of that judgment I sincerely protest I have the
utmost diffidence. God prosper your proceedings in
the great work; you will be called blessed by all the
grateful of the present generation, and your name
will be celebrated by posterity. I feel myself happy
in reflecting that in the great outlines of a treaty
our opinions exactly coincide, that we shall not want
the countenance and assistance of our great and
good ally, and that you have so honest a man as Mr.
Oswald to deal with for preliminaries. I know him
to be superior to chicanery, and am sure he will not
defile his mind by attempting any dirty thing.

"I entreat you, sir, to present my humble respects
to M. de Vergennes, and thank his Excellency for his
polite expressions respecting me, and be so good as
to say all that shall appear necessary in excuse for
my non-appearance at his court.

"Lord ComwalHs called on me the day before I
left London, and was, as you may suppose, very
anxious to know when he might probably hear from
me on the subject of his release; let me therefore

304 The Works of [1782

request your opinion in answer to what I had the
honor of writing in my last concerning that affair.
I wish it may prove satisfactory to his Lordship by
enabling me, with your consent and concurrence, to
cancel a debt, which does not sit easy upon me, and
which cannot, with honor to our country, remain
unpaid. I think we shall not, it is impossible we
should, incur displeasure b}^ doing an act of common
justice, and our authority may be fairly implied.

"His Lordship declares he has no intention of
returning to America, but desires to be reinstated in
his legislative and military character in his own
country, and I am of opinion that in the former he
will rather be friendly to us than otherwise. For
my own part, if the war continues, I should not be
uneasy if his Lordship were to go to the Chesapeake
again.

' ' I have a thousand compliments and good wishes
to present to you from friends in England, where,
males and females, I am sure you have at least so
many that your own remembrance will lead you to
individuals of your old acquaintance.

"To-morrow I intend to proceed to Brussels, and
thence, probably, to the Hague and Amsterdam.
My movements must, unavoidably, be as slow as
water carriage. My weak under-limbs cannot bear
continual thumping on the pavement in the rough
machines of this country, and the feebleness of my
pocket will not admit the indulgence of a more con-
venient vehicle. I beg, sir, you will write to me at
the house of Mr. Edward Jennings, or under the pro-
tection of any other friend in that city that will be

1782] Benjamin Franklin 305

at the trouble of finding out a voyager who is, at all
times and in all places, with the highest esteem and
respect, sir, etc.,

"Henry Laurens."

To the above I wrote the following answer:

Passy, 25 May, 1782.

Sir: — I am now honored with yours of the 17th.
I had before received one of the 7th, which remained
unanswered, because from the words in it, 'when I
reach the Continent, which will probably happen in
a few days,' I flattered myself with the pleasure of
seeing you here. That hope is disappointed by your
last, in which you tell me you are determined not to
act in the commission for treating of peace with
Great Britain. I regret your taking this resolution,
principally because I am persuaded that your assist-
ance must have been of great service to our country.
But I have besides some private or particular reasons
that relate to myself.

To encourage me in the arduous task, you kindly
tell me I shall be called blessed, etc. I have never
yet known of a peace made that did not occasion a
great deal of popular discontent, clamor, and censure
on both sides. This is, perhaps, owing to the usual
management of the leaders and ministers of the con-
tending nations, who, to keep up the spirits of their
people for continuing the war, generally represent
the state of their own affairs in a better light, and
that of the enemy in a worse, than is consistent with
the truth; hence the populace on each side expect
better terms than can really be obtained, and are apt

VOL. IX. — 20.

3o6 The Works of [1782

to ascribe their disappointment to treachery. Thus
the peace of Utrecht and that of Aix - la - Chapelle
were said in England to have been influenced by
French gold, and in France by English guineas.
Even the last peace, the most glorious and advan-
tageous for England that ever she made, was, you
may remember, violently decried, and the makers as
violently abused. So that the blessing promised to
peacemakers, I fancy, relates to the next world, for
in this they seem to have a greater chance of being
cursed. And as another text observes that in 'the
multitude of counsellors there is safety/ which I think
may mean safety to the coimsellors as well as to the
counselled, because if they commit a fault in counsel-
ling the blame does not fall upon one or a few, but
is divided among many, and the share of each is so
much the lighter, or because when a number of hon-
est men are concerned the suspicion of their being
biassed is weaker, as being more improbable, or
because defendit numerus; for all these reasons, but
especially for the support your established character
of integrity would afford me against the attacks of
enemies, if this treaty take place, and I am to act in
it, I wish for your presence, and the presence of as
many of the commissioners as possible, and I hope
you will reconsider and change your resolution.

In the meantime, as you have had opportunities
of conversing with the new ministers and other lead-
ing people in England, and of learning their senti-
ments relating to terms of peace, etc., I request you
would inform me by letters of what you think
important. Letters from you will come safer by the

1782] Benjamin Franklin 307

court courier than by the post, and I desire you
would, if you should continue determined not to act,
communicate to me your ideas of the terms to be
insisted on, and the points to be attended to, respect-
ing commerce, fisheries, boundaries, and every other
material circtmistance that may be of importance to
all or any of the United States.

Lord Shelbume having written to me on the
subject of the wished-for peace, I acquainted him in
my answer, sent by our friend, Mr. Oswald, that you
were one of the commissioners appointed by Con-
gress to treat with Britain, and that I imagined his
Lordship would therefore think proper to discharge
you entirely from the obligations you entered into
when you were admitted to bail that you might be
at liberty to act freely in the commission. He wrote
to me in reply that you were accordingly discharged
immediately. His Lordship mentioned nothing of
any exchange being expected for you; nevertheless,
I honor your sensibility on the point, and your con-
cern for the credit of America, that she should not
be outdone in generosity by Great Britain, and will
cheerfully join with you in any act that you may
think proper, to discharge in return the parole of
Lord Comwallis, as far as in our power may lie ; but
we have no express authority for that purpose, and
the Congress may possibly, in the meantime, have
made some other arrangement relative to his ex-
change. I conceive that our acts should contain a
clause reserving to Congress the final approbation or
disallowance of the proceeding; and I have some
doubt whether Lord Comwallis will think himself

3o8 The Works of [1782

well freed of his engagements, and at liberty to exer-
cise his military employments by virtue of any con-
cession in his favor made by persons who are not
vested with authority for that purpose. So that, on
the whole, perhaps the best and surest way will be
our writing immediately to Congress and strongly
recommending the measure. However, I will do
what you shall think best.

I heartily wish you success in any endeavors you
may use in Holland for raising a loan of money. We
have pressed rather too hard on this court, and we
still want more than they can conveniently spare us ;
but I am sorry that too scrupulous regard to our
wants and difficulties should induce you, under the
present infirmity of your lower limbs, to deny your-
self the necessary comfort of an easy carriage, rather
than make any use of the public assistance, when the
public must be much in your debt. I beg you would
get over that difficulty, and take of me what you
may have occasion for.

The letter you forwarded to me was from Amer-
ica's constant friend, the good Bishop of St. Asaph.
He speaks of you in terms of the highest esteem and
respect.

Mr. Oswald has gone back again to London, but
intended to return again immediately. Mr. Gren-
ville remains here, and has received power to treat,
but no further steps can be taken till Spain and
Holland have empowered ministers for the same
purpose.

I shall inform you and Mr. Adams (if he does not
come) of the proceeding from time to time, and re-

1782] Benjamin Franklin 309

quest your counsel in cases of any difficulty. I hope
you will not think of hazarding a return to America
before a peace, if we find any hopes of its being soon
obtained; and that, if you do not find you can be
useful in the manner you wish, in Holland, you will
make me happy by your company and counsel here.
With great and sincere esteem, etc.,

B, Franklin.

May 26th, I received the following from Mr.
Hartley:

"London, 13 May, 1782.

"My Dear Friend:— I wrote you a long letter
dated May ist,^ by Mr. Laurens, who left London on
Saturday last, but I will add a few lines now by a
conveyance, which I believe will overtake him, just to
tell you two or three things which I believe I omitted
in my last. Perhaps they may not be of any conse-
quence, but, as they relate to my own conduct, I
could wish to have you understand them.

"After several conferences with the late ministry,
I gave in the paper, called the Breviate,' on the 7th
of February, but I never received any answer from
them. They resigned on the 20th March. Upon
the accession of the new ministry, I heard nothing
from them upon the subject, nor indeed did I apply
to them. I did not know whether that paper would
not come into their hands by succession, and I
doubted whether it might not be more proper for
me to wait till I heard from them. While I re-
mained doubtful about this, I received your letters,

I See Diplomatic Correspondence, Vol. IIL, p. 343.
'/6*d., p. 351.

3IO The Works of [1782

which determined me to go to Lord Shelbume. This
was about the beginning of the present month. I
communicated to him some extracts, such as those
about the prisoners, etc., and Hkewise the whole of
your letter of April 13th, containing the offer of the
late ministry, the king of France's answer, together
with your reflections in the conclusion respecting
peace. As you had given me a general permission,
I left him a copy of the whole letter.

"Upon the occasion of this interview. Lord Shel-
bume told me that he had made much inquiry in
the offices for the correspondence and papers which
had passed between the late ministry and me, but
that he could not meet with them. He expressed a
regret that he had not conversed with me at an ear-
lier day, with many civilities of that kind. In short,
I had been backward to intrude myself, and he
expressed regret that he had not sent for me.

"Upon this opening on his part, I stated to him the
substance of what passed between the late ministry
and myself, and I left a copy of the Breviate with
him. He gave me a very attentive audience, and I
took that opportunity of stating my sentiments to
him, as far as I could, upon every view of the ques-
tion. Upon his expressing his regret that he had not
seen me sooner, I told him that I always had been,
and always should be, most ready to give any assist-
ance in my power towards the work of peace. I say
the same to you.

*T do not believe that there is any difference of
sentiment between you and me, personally, in our own
minds upon independence, etc., etc. But we belong

1782] Benjamin Franklin 311

to different communities, and the right of judgment,
and of consent and dissent, is vested in the commun-
ity. Divide independence into six millions of shares,
and you should have been heartily welcome to my
share from the beginning of the war. Divide Canada
into six millions of shares, I could find a better
method of disposing of my share, than by offering it
to France to abandon America. Divide the Rock of
Gibraltar into six million of pieces, I can only answer
for one portion. Let Reason and Justice decide in
any such case, as universal imipires between con-
tending parties, and those who wish well to the
permanent peace of mankind will not refuse to give
and to receive equal justice.

"I agree with you, that the equitable and philo-
sophical principles of politics can alone form a solid
foundation of permanent peace; and the contraries
to them, though highly patronized by nations them-
selves, and their ministers, are no better than vulgar
errors ; but nations are slow to convictions from the
personal argimients of individuals. They are 'jeal-
ous in honor, seeking the bubble reputation even in
the cannon's mouth.' But until a confirmed millen-
nium, founded upon wiser principles, shall be gener-
ally established, the reputation of nations is not
merely a bubble. It forms their real security.

"To apply all this in one word, let all nations
agree with one accord to beat their swords into
ploughshares and their spears into pruning hooks, or
give me wooden walls to Great Britain! I have
nothing further to add. My reason for writing this
was just to communicate to you in what position I

312 The Works of [1782

had dehvered over my conferences and arguments
with the late ministry into the hands of the present.
And I will conclude with your own words, may God
send us all more wisdom. I am ever, most affec-
tionately, yours, etc.,

"D. Hartley.

"P. S. — May 17th. Since writing the above, I
have likewise left a copy of the enclosed preliminaries
with Lord Shelbume :

"May 7, 1782.

"i. That the British troops shall be withdrawn
from the Thirteen Provinces of North America, and
a truce made between Great Britain and the said
Provinces, for years. (Suppose ten or twenty

years.)

"2. That a negotiation for peace shall bona fide
be opened between Great Britain and the allies of
America.

"3. If the proposed negotiation between Great
Britain and the allies of America should not succeed
so far as as to produce peace, but that war should
continue between the said parties, that America
should act and be treated as a neutral nation.

"4. That whenever peace shall take place between
Great Britain and the allies of America, the truce
between Great Britain and America shall be con-
verted into a perpetual peace, the independence of
America shall be admitted and guaranteed by Great
Britain, and a commercial treaty settled between
them.

"5. That these propositions shall be made to the

1782] Benjamin Franklin 313

court of France for communication to the American
commissioners and for an answer to the court of
Great Britain."

The same day Mr. Grenville visited me. He ac-
quainted me that his courier was returned, and had
brought him full powers in form to treat for a peace
with France and her allies. That he had been at
Versailles, and had shown his power to M. de Ver-
gennes, and left a copy with him. That he had also
a letter of credence, which he was not to deHver till
France should think fit to send a minister of the
same kind to London; that M. de Vergennes had
told him that he would lay it before the king and
had desired to see him again on Wednesday. That
Mr. Oswald had arrived in London about an hour
before the courier came away. That Mr. Fox in his
letter had charged him to thank me for that which
I had written, and to tell me that he hoped I would
never forget that he and I were of the same country.

I answered that I should always esteem it an
honor to be owned as a countryman of Mr. Fox.
He had requested me, at our last interview, that, if I
saw no impropriety in doing it, I would favor him
with a sight of the treaty of alliance between France
and America. I acquainted him that it was printed,
but that if he could not readily meet with a copy
I would have one written for him. And as he had
not been able to find one, I this day gave it to him.

He lent me a London gazette containing Admiral
Rodney's account of his victory over M. de Grasse,
and the accounts of other successes in the East

314 The Works of [1782

Indies, assuring me, however, that these events made
not the least change in the sincere desire of his court
to treat for peace.

In the afternoon the Marquis de Lafayette called
upon me. I acquainted him with what Mr. Gren-
ville had told me respecting the credential letter and
the expectation that a person on the part of this
court would be sent to London with a commission
similar to his. The Marquis told me he was on his
way to Versailles and should see M. de Vergennes.
We concluded that it would now be proper for him
to make the proposition we had before talked of,
that he should be the person employed in that
service.

On Monday the 27th I received a letter from Mr.
Jay, dated the 8th, acquainting me that he had re-
ceived mine of the 21st and 2 2d past, and had con-
cluded to set out for Paris about the 19th, so that
he may be expected in a few days.

I dined this day with Count d'Estaing and a num-
ber of brave marine officers that he had invited.
We were all a little dejected with the news. I men-
tioned, by way of encouragement, the observation of
the Turkish bashaw, who was taken with his fleet at
Lepanto by the Venetians. "Ships," says he, "are
like my master's beard; you may cut it, but it will
grow again. He has cut off from your government
all the Morea, which is like a limb, which you will
never recover." And his words proved true.

On Tuesday I dined at Versailles with some friends,
so was not at home when the Marquis de Lafayette
called to acquaint me that M. de Vergennes informed

1782] Benjamin Franklin 315

him that the full power received by Mr. Grenville
from London and communicated by him, related to
France only. The Marquis left for me this informa-
tion, which I could not understand. On Wednesday
I was at court and saw the copy of the power. It
appeared full with regard to treating with France,
but mentioned not a word of her allies. And, as M.
de Vergennes had expHcitly and constantly from the
beginning declared to the several messengers, Mr.
Forth, Mr. Oswald, and Mr. Grenville, that France
could only treat in concert with her allies, and it had
in consequence been declared on the part of the
British ministry that they consented to treat for a
general peace, and at Paris, the sending this partial
power seemed to be insidious, and a mere invention
to occasion delay, the late disasters to the French
fleet having probably given the court of England
fresh courage and other views.

M. de Vergennes said he should see Mr. Grenville
on Thtirsday, and wotild speak his mind to him on
the subject very plainly. "They want," said he,
"to treat with us for you, but this the king will not
agree to. He thinks it not consistent with the dig-
nity of your state. You will treat for yourselves;
and every one of the powers at war with England
will make its own treaty. All that is necessary for
our common security is that the treaties go hand in
hand, and are signed all on the same day."

Prince Bariatinski, jthe Russian ambassador, was
particularly civil to me this day at court, apologized
for what passed relating to the visit, expressed him-
self extremely sensible of my friendship in covering

3i6 The Works of [1782

the affair, which might have occasioned him very-
disagreeable consequences, etc. The Count du Nord
came to M. de Vergennes, while we were drinking
coffee, after dinner. He appears lively and active,
with a sensible, spirited countenance. There was an
opera that night for his entertainment. The house
being richly finished with abundance of carving and
gilding, well illuminated with wax tapers, and the
company all superbly dressed, many of the men in
cloth of tissue, and the ladies sparkling with dia-
monds, formed altogether the most splendid spec-
tacle my eyes ever beheld.

I had some little conference to-day with Messrs.
Berkenrode, Vanderpierre, and Boeris, the ambas-
sador of Holland, and the agents of the Dutch East
India Company. They informed me that the second
letter of Mr. Fox to the mediating minister of Russia,
proposing a separate peace with Holland, made no
more impression than the first, and no peace would
be made but in concurrence with France.

The Swedish minister told me he expected orders
from his court relative to a treaty, etc.

I had, at our last interview, given Mr. Grenville a
rendezvous for Saturday morning, and, having some
other engagements for Thursday and Friday, though
I wished to speak to him on the subject of his power,
I did not go to him, but waited his coming to me on
Saturday. On Friday, May 31st, Mr. Oswald called
on me, being just returned, and brought me the fol-
lowing letter from David Hartley, and two letters
from Lord Shelburne, the first of which had been
written before his arrival :

1782] Benjamin Franklin 317

"London, 25 May, 1782.

"My Dear Friend: — Yours of the 13th instant
I received by Mr. Oswald. I did not doubt but that
the news of a general and absolute release of the
American prisoners, which Lord Shelbume was so
good as to communicate to me, in answer to that
part of your letter of the 5th of April, in which you
speak so pathetically of sweet reconciliation, would
give you much sincere and heartfelt pleasure. God
send, that it may be the happy omen of final recon-
ciliation and durable peace. I should be very happy
to hear that good news from you, and in any way
to contribute to it. Having on that subject com-
municated the preliminaries, dated May, 1782, to
Lord Shelbume, you may be assured that I have
no reservations upon that head respecting America,
in any circumstances or condition whatever. You
know all my thoughts upon that subject, and the
principles upon which they are founded, and, there-
fore, that they are not changeable.

' ' It would give me the greatest pleasure if I could
hope for any opportunity of seeing you. I could
say many things which are otherwise incommu-
nicable, and which, perhaps, would contribute to
facilitate the road to peace. I think I see in many
parts much matter to work with, out of which a
peace, honorable to all parties, and upon durable
principles, might be established. No degrading or
mortifying conditions to shorten peace and rekindle
war. Perhaps I might not say too much if I were
to add that simply the adoption of reason among
nations and the mere rectification of obsolete and

3i8 The Works of [1782

gothic absurdities, which carry no gratification,
would afford a fund of remuneration to all parties
for renouncing those objects of mutual contention,
which, in the eye of reason, are no better than crea-
tures of passion, jealousy, and false pride. Until
the principles of reason and equity shall be adopted
in national transactions, peace will not be durable
amongst men.

"These are reflections general to all nations. As
to the mutual concerns between Great Britain and
North America, reconciliation is the touchstone to
prove those hearts which are without alloy. If I
can be of any assistance to you in any commu-
nications or explanations conducive to peace, you
may command my utmost services. Even if a
French minister were to overhear such an offer, let
him not take it in jealous part. Zealously and af-
fectionately attached to my own country and to
America, I am nevertheless most perfectly in accord
with you, that justice and honor should be observed
towards all nations. Mr. Oswald will do me the
favor to convey this to you. I heartily wish him
success in his pacific embassy. Yours ever, most
affectionately, „p Hartley."

" Whitehall, 21 May, 1782.

"Sir: — I am honored with your letter of the loth
instant, and am very glad to find that the conduct
which the king has empowered me to observe towards
Mr. Laurens and the American prisoners has given
you pleasure. I have signified to Mr. Oswald his
Majesty's pleasure, that he shall continue at Paris

1782] Benjamin Franklin 319

till he receives orders from hence to retiim. In the
present state of this business, there is nothing for
me to add but my sincere wishes for a happy issue,
and to repeat my assurances that nothing shall be
wanting on my part which can contribute to it. I
have the honor to be, with very great regard,

"Shelburne." ^

I As the Earl of Shelbtime was the principal minister concerned in
negotiating the peace, and as it was a very important event in his
official life, he retained among his private papers a copy of the entire
correspondence between the ministry and Mr. Oswald, the British
commissioner in Paris during the whole of the negotiation. This
valuable collection is now in the possession of the Marquis of Lans-
down, by whose courtesy and liberality I was favored with a complete
transcript of it while I was pursuing my researches for materials re-
lating to American history in the public offices of London; with per-
mission to make such use of any parts of the correspondence as would
conduce to historical truth, or help to explain the transactions to
which it relates. In Mr. Oswald's letters he gives copious accounts of
his conversations with Dr. Franklin and the other commissioners on
the subject of the treaty, from which the views of the parties and
their modes of proceeding are more or less clearly ascertained. These
letters bear so directly on many points in Dr. Franklin's correspond-
ence while the negotiation was in progress, that I shall add in the notes
a few extracts from them as occasions may offer, premising the above
statement merely for the reader's information as to their origin and
authenticity.

From the Earl of Shelburne to Richard Oswald. — "I am sorry to
observe that the French minister gives very little reason to expect
that his court is likely to make good their professions which they made
through so many channels, of a desire of peace upon terms becoming
this country to accept, upon the strength of which Dr. Franklin invited
the present negotiation. I have that entire confidence in Dr. Frank-
lin's integrity and strict honor, that if the court of France have other
views, and that they have been throwing out false lures to support
the appearance of moderation throughout Europe, and in the hope of
misleading and the chance of dividing us, I am satisfied that he must
have been himself deceived ; and in such a case I trust that if this shall
be proved in the course of the present negotiation, he will consider
himself and his constituents freed from the tie which will appear
to have been founded upon no ideas of common interest.

"We shall, however, I hope, speedily ascertain the real purposes of

320 The Works of [1782

"Whitehall, 25 May, 1782,

"Sir: — I have the honor to receive your letter of
the 13th of May by Mr. Oswald. It gives me great
pleasure to find my opinion of the moderation, pru-
dence, and judgment of that gentleman confirmed by
your concurrence. For I am glad to assure you that
we likewise concur in hoping that those qualities
may enable him to contribute to the speedy conclu-
sion of a peace, and such a peace as may be firm and
long lasting. In that hope he has the king's orders
to return immediately to Paris, and you will find
him, I trust, properly instructed to co-operate in so
desirable an object. I have the honor to be, etc.,

"Shelburne."

I had not then time to converse much with Mr.
Oswald, and he promised to come and breakfast with
me on Monday.

Saturday, June ist. — Mr. Grenville came, accord-
ing to appointment. Our conversation began by
my acquainting him that I had seen the Count de
Vergennes, and had perused the copy left with him
of the power to treat; that after what he, Mr. Gren-
ville, told me of its being to treat with France and her
allies, I was a little surprised to find in it no mention
of the allies, and that it was only to treat with the

France by their conduct in the future progress of this negotiation,
which the king will not suffer to go into any length. In the meantime
you will govern your conversation with the American commissioners
with all possible prudence, collecting your sentiments, and every other
information which you may conceive may hereafter prove useful ; and
I have his Majesty's commands to acquaint you that it is his pleasure
you should continue at Paris till you receive his orders to ret vim, of
which you will acquaint Dr. Franklin and Count de Vergennes" —
Whitehall, May 21st, MS. Letter. Sparks.

1782] Benjamin Franklin 321

king of France and his ministers ; that, at Versailles,
there was some suspicion of its being intended to
occasion delay, the professed desire of a speedy peace
being, perhaps, abated in the British court since its
late successes; but that I imagined the words re-
lating to the allies might have been accidentally
omitted in transcribing, or that perhaps he had a
special power to treat with us distinct from the
other.

He answered that the copy was right, and that he
had no such power in form, but that his instructions
were full to that purpose, and that he was sure the
ministers had no desire of delay, nor any of excluding
us from the treaty, since the greatest part of those
instructions related to treating with me. That to
convince me of this sincerity of his court respecting
us, he would acquaint me with one of his instructions,
though perhaps the doing it now was premature,
and, therefore, a little inconsistent with the char-
acter of a politician, but he had that confidence in
me that he should not hesitate to inform me (though
he wished that at present it should go no further),
he was instructed to acknowledge the independence of
America, previous to the commencement of the treaty.
And he said he could only account for the omission
of America in the power by supposing that it was
an old official form copied from that given to Mr.
Stanley, when he came over hither before the last
peace. Mr. Grenville added that he had, immedi-
ately after his interview with the Count de Ver-
gennes, despatched a courier to London, and hoped
that with his return the difficulty would be removed.

VOL. IX. 21.
The Works of [1782

That he was perfectly assured their late success had
made no change in the disposition of his court to
peace, and that he had more reason than the Count
de Vergennes to complain of delays, since five days
were spent before he could obtain a passport for his
courier, and then it was not to go and return by way
of Calais, but to go by Ostend, which would occasion
a delay of five days longer. Mr. Grenville then
spoke much of the high opinion the present ministry
had of me, and their great esteem for me, their de-
sire of a perfect reconciliation between the two coun-
tries, and the firm and general behef in England that
no man was so capable as myself of proposing the
proper means of bringing about such a reconciliation,
adding that, if the old ministers had formerly been
too little attentive to my counsels, the present were
very differently disposed, and he hoped that in
treating with them I would totally forget their
predecessors.

The time has been when such flattering language,
as from great men, might have made me vainer, and
had more effect on my conduct than it can at present,
when I find myself so near the end of life as to es-
teem lightly all personal interests and concerns, ex-
cept that of maintaining to the last and leaving
behind me the tolerably good character I have hither-
to supported.

Mr. Grenville then discoursed of our resolution
not to treat without our allies. "This," says he,
"can only properly relate to France, with whom you
have a treaty of alliance, but you have none with
Spain, you have none with Holland. If Spain and

1782] Benjamin Franklin 323

Holland, and even if France should insist on un-
reasonable terms of advantage to themselves, after
you have obtained all you want and are satisfied, can
it be right that America should be dragged on in a
war for their interest only ? ' ' He stated this matter
in various lights and pressed it earnestly.

I resolved from various reasons to evade the dis-
cussion, therefore answered that the intended treaty
not being yet begun, it appeared unnecessary to enter
at present into considerations of that kind. The
preliminaries being once settled and the treaty com-
menced, if any of the other powers should make ex-
travagant demands on England, and insist on our
continuing the war till those were complied with, it
would then be time enough to consider what our ob-
ligations were and how far they extended. The first
thing necessary was for him to procure the full
powers, the next for us to assemble the plenipoten-
tiaries of all the belligerent parties, and then propo-
sitions might be mutually made, received, considered,
answered, or agreed to. In the meantime I would
just mention to him that though we were yet under
no obligations to Spain by treaty, we were under
obligations of gratitude for the assistance she had
afforded us; and as Mr. Adams had some weeks
since commenced a treaty in Holland, the terms of
which I was not yet acquainted with, I knew not
but that we might have already some alliance and
obligations contracted there. And perhaps we ought,
however, to have some consideration for Holland
on this account, that it was in vengeance for the
friendly disposition shown by some of her people

324 The Works of [1782

to make a treaty of commerce with us, that England
had declared the war against her.

He said it would be hard upon England if, having
given reasonable satisfaction to one or two of her
enemies, she could not have peace with those till
she had complied with whatever the others might
demand, however unreasonable, for so she might
be obliged to pay for every article fourfold. I ob-
served that when she made her propositions, the
more advantageous they were to each, the more it
would be the interest of each to prevail with the
others to accept those offered to them. We then
spoke of the reconciliation, but his full power not
being yet come, I chose to defer entering upon that
subject at present. I told him I had thoughts of
putting down in writing the particulars that I judged
would conduce to that end, and of adding my rea-
sons, that this required a little time and I had been
hindered by accidents, which was true, for I had
begun to write but had postponed it on account of
his defective power to treat. But I promised to
finish it as soon as possible. He pressed me ear-
nestly to do it, saying an expression of mine in a
former conversation, that there still remained roots
of good-will in America towards England, which if
properly taken care of might produce a reconcilia-
tion, had made a great impression on his mind and
given him infinite pleasure, and he hoped I would
not neglect furnishing him with the information of
what would be necessary to nourish those roots, and
could assure me that my advice would be greatly
regarded.

1782] Bf^njamin Franklin 325

Mr. Grenville had shown me at our last interview
a letter from the Duke of Richmond to him, request-
ing him to prevail with me to disengage a Captain
McLeod of the artillery from his parole, the Duke's
brother, Lord George Lenox, being appointed to the
command of Portsmouth, and desiring to have him
as his aide-de-camp. I had promised to consider it,
and this morning I sent him the following letter:

Passy, 31 May, 1782.

Sir: — I do not find that I have any express au-
thority to absolve a parole given by an English offi-
cer in America, but desirous of complying with a
request of the Duke of Richmond as far as may be in
my power, and being confident that the Congress will
be pleased with whatever may oblige a personage
they so much respect, I do hereby consent that Cap-
tain McLeod serve in his military capacity in Eng-
land only, till the pleasure of the Congress is known,
to whom I will write immediately, and who, I make
no doubt, will discharge him entirely. I have the
honor to be, etc.,

B. Franklin.

America had been constantly befriended in Parlia-
ment by the Duke of Richmond, and I believed the
Congress would not be displeased that this oppor-
tunity was taken of obliging him, and that they
would by their approbation supply the deficiency
of my power. Besides, I could not well refuse it,
after what had passed between Mr. Laurens and me,
and what I had promised to do for that gentleman.

Sunday, June 2d. — The Marquis de Lafayette

326 The Works of [1782

called and dined with me. He is uneasy about the
delay, as he cannot resolve concerning his voyage to
America till some certainty appears of there being a
treaty or no treaty. This day I wrote the following
letter to Mr. Adams :

Passy, 2 June, 1782.

Sir: — Since mine of May 8th I have not had any
thing material to communicate to your Excellency.
Mr. Grenville indeed arrived just after I had de-
spatched that letter, and I introduced him to M. de
Vergennes, but, as his mission seemed only a repeti-
tion of that by Mr. Oswald, the same declaration of
the king of England's sincere desire of peace, and
willingness to treat at Paris, which were answered by
the same declarations of the good dispositions of this
court, and that it could not treat without the con-
currence of its allies, I omitted writing till some-
thing should be produced from a kind of agreement,
that M. de Vergennes would acquaint Spain and
Holland with the overture, and Mr. Grenville would
write for full powers to treat and make propositions ;
nothing of importance being in the meantime to be
transacted.

Mr. Grenville accordingly despatched a messen-
ger for London, who returned in about twelve days.
Mr. Grenville called on me, after having been at
Versailles, and acquainted me that he had received
the power, and had left a copy of it with M. de Ver-
gennes, and that he was thereby authorized to treat
with France and her allies. The next time I went to
Versailles I desired to see that copy, and was sur-
prised to find in it no mention of the allies of France,

1782] Benjamin Franklin 327

or any one of them, and, on speaking with M. de
Vergennes about it, I found he began to look upon
the whole as a piece of artifice to amuse us and gain
time ; since he had uniformly declared to every agent
who had appeared there, viz., to Forth, Oswald, and
Grenville, that the king would not treat without the
concurrence of his allies, and yet England had given
a power to treat with France only, which showed she
did not intend to treat at all, but meant to continue
the war.

I had not till yesterday an opportunity of talking
with Mr. Grenville on the subject, and expressing my
wonder that, after what he told me, there should be
no mention made of our States in his commission;
he could not explain this to my satisfaction, but said
he believed the omission was occasioned by their
copying an old commission given to Mr, Stanley at
the last treaty of peace, for he was sure the intention
was that he should treat with us, his instructions
being fully to that purpose. I acquainted him that
I thought a special commission was necessary, with-
out which we could not treat with him. I imagine
that there is a reluctance in their king to take this
first step, as the giving such a commission would itself
be a kind of acknowledgment of our independence.
Their late success against Count de Grasse may also
have given them hopes that, by delay and more suc-
cesses, they may make that acknowledgment and a
peace less necessary.

Mr. Grenville has written to his court for further
instructions. We shall see what the return of his
courier will produce. If full power to treat with each

328 The Works of [1782

of the powers at war against England does not ap-
pear, I imagine the negotiation will be broken off.
Mr. Grenville, in his conversation with me, insists
much on our being under no engagements not to
make a peace without Holland. I have answered
him that I know not but that you may have entered
into some, and if there should be none, a general
pacification, made at the same time, would be best
for us all, and that I believe neither Holland nor
we could be prevailed on to abandon our friends.
What happens further shall be immediately com-
municated.

Be pleased to present my respects to Mr. Laurens,
to whom I wrote some days since. Mr. Jay, I sup-
pose, is on his way hither. With great respect, etc.,

B. Franklin.

On Monday the 3d, Mr. Oswald came according to
appointment. He told me, he had seen and had
conversations with Lord Shelbume, Lord Rocking-
ham, and Mr. Fox. That their desire of peace con-
tinued uniformly the same, though he thought some
of them were a little too much elated with the late
victory in the West Indies ; and when, observing his
coolness, they asked him if he did not think it a
very good thing: "Yes," said he, "if you do not
rate it too high." He went on with the utmost
frankness to tell me that the peace was absolutely
necessary for them. That the nation had been
foolishly involved in four wars, and could no longer
raise money to carry them on, so that if they con-
tinued, it would be absolutely necessary for them

1782] Benjamin Franklin 329

to stop payment of the interest money on the funds,
which would ruin their future credit. He spoke of
stopping on all sums above one thousand pounds,
and continuing to pay on those below, because the
great sums belonged to the rich, who could better
bear the delay of their interest, and the smaller
sums to poorer persons, who would be more hurt
and make more clamor, and that the rich might be
quieted by promising them interest upon their in-
terest. All this looked as if the matter had been
seriously thought on.

Mr. Oswald has an air of great simplicity and hon-
esty, yet I could hardly take this to be merely a
weak confession of their deplorable state, and thought
it might be rather intended as a kind of intimida-
tion, by showing us that they had still that resource
in their power, which he said would fiunish five
millions a year. But, he added, our enemies may
now do what they please with us; they have the ball
at their foot, was his expression, and we hope they
will show their moderation and magnanimity. He
then repeatedly mentioned the great esteem the min-
isters had for me, that they, with all the considerate
people of England, looked to and depended on me
for the means of extricating the nation from its
present desperate situation; and that, perhaps, no
single man had ever in his hands an opportunity of
doing so much good as I had at this present time,
with much more to that purpose. He then showed
me a letter to him from Lord Shelbume, partly, I
suppose, that I might see his Lordship's opinion of
me, which, as it has some relation to the negotiation,

330 The Works of [1782

is here inserted. He left it with me, requesting
that I woiild communicate it to Mr. Walpole :

FROM THE EARL OF SHELBURNE TO RICHARD OSWALD

"Whitehall, 21 May, 1782.

"Sir: — It has reached me that Mr. Walpole es-
teems himself much injured by your going to Paris,
and that he conceives it was a measure of mine, in-
tended to take the present negotiation with the
court of France out of his hands, which he conceives
to have been previously commenced through his
channel, by Mr. Fox. I must desire that you will
have the goodness to call upon Mr. Walpole, and
explain to him distinctly how very little foundation
there is for so unjust a suspicion, as I knew of no
such intercourse. Mr. Fox declares he considered
what had passed between him and Mr. Walpole of
a mere private nature, not sufficiently material to
mention to the king or the cabinet, and will write
to Mr. Walpole to explain this distinctly to him.

"But if you find the least suspicion of this kind
has reached Dr. Franklin, or the Count de Ver-
gennes, I desire this matter may be clearly explained
to both. I have too much friendship for Dr. Frank-
lin, and too much respect for the character of the
Count de Vergennes, with which I am perfectly ac-
quainted, to be so indifferent to the good opinion
of either, as to suffer them to beheve me capable
of an intrigue, where I have both professed and ob-
served a direct opposite course of conduct. In
truth, I hold it in such perfect contempt that, how-
ever proud I may be to serve the king in my present

1782] Benjamin Franklin 331

situation, or in any other, and however anxious I
may be to serve my country, I should not hesitate
a moment about retiring from any situation which
required such services. But I must do the king the
justice to say that his Majesty abhors them, and I
need not tell you that it is my fixed principle that
no country in any moment can be advantaged by
them. I am, with great truth and regard, etc.,

"Shelburne."

In speaking further of the ministry's opinion of the
great service it might be in my power to render, Mr.
Oswald said he had told them, in one of his conver-
sations, that nothing was to be expected of me but
consistency, nothing unsuitable to my character, or
inconsistent with my duty to my country. I did not
ask him the particular occasion of his saying this,
but thought it looked a little as if something in-
consistent with my duty had been talked of or pro-
posed. Mr. Oswald also gave me a copy of a paper
of memorandums, written by Lord Shelburne, viz.:

"i. That I am ready to correspond more particu-
larly with Dr. Franklin, if wished.

"2. That the Enabling Act is passing, with the
insertion of commissioners recommended by Mr.
Oswald; and, on our part, commissioners will be
named, or any character given to Mr. Oswald which
Dr. Franklin and he may judge conducive to a final
settlement of things between Great Britain and
America, which Dr. Franklin very properly says
requires to be treated in a very different manner

332 The Works of [1782

from the peace between Great Britain and France,
who have always been at enmity with each other.

"3. That an estabhshment for the loyahsts must
always be on Mr. Oswald's mind, as it is uppermost
in Lord Shelbume's, besides other steps in their
favor to influence the several States to agree to a
fair restoration or compensation for whatever con-
fiscations have taken place.

"4. To give Lord Shelbume's letter about Mr.
Walpole to Dr. Franklin."

On perusing this paper, I recollected that a bill
had been some time since proposed in Parliament,
To enable his Majesty to conclude a Peace or Truce
with the revolted Provinces in America, which I sup-
posed to be the Enabling Bill mentioned, that had
hitherto slept, and not having been passed, was per-
haps the true reason why the colonies were not men-
tioned in Mr. Grenville's commission. Mr. Oswald
thought it likely, and said that the words "insertion
of commissioners recommended by Mr. Oswald" re-
lated to his advising an express mention in the bill of
the commissioners appointed by Congress to treat
of peace, instead of the vague denomination of any
person or persons, etc. , in the first draft of the bill.

As to the loyalists, I repeated what I had said to
him when first here, that their estates had been con-
fiscated by the laws made in particular States where
the delinquents had resided, and not by any law of
Congress, who indeed had no power either to make
such laws or to repeal them, or to dispense with
them, and therefore could give no power to their

1782] Benjamin Franklin 33^

commissioners to treat of a restoration for those
people; that it was an affair appertaining to each
State. That if there were justice in compensating
them, it must be due from England rather than
America ; but in my opinion England was not under
any very great obligations to them, since it was by
their misrepresentations and bad counsels she had
been drawn into this miserable war. And that if an
account was to be brought against us for their losses,
we should more than balance it by an account of the
ravages they had committed all along the coasts of
America.

Mr. Oswald agreed to the reasonableness of all
this, and said he had, before he came away, told the
ministers that he thought no recompense to those
people was to be expected from us ; that he had also,
in consequence of our former conversation on that
subject, given it as his opinion that Canada should
be given up to the United States, as it would pre-
vent the occasions of future difference, and as the
government of such a country was worth nothing
and of no importance if they could have there a free
commerce; that the Marquis of Rockingham and
Lord Shelbume, though they spoke reservedly, did
not seem very averse to it, but that Mr. Fox appeared
to be startled at the proposition. He was, however,
not without hopes that it would be agreed to.

We now came to another article of the note, viz.,
"On our part commissioners will be named, or any
character given to Mr. Oswald which Dr. Franklin
and he may judge conducive to a final settlement of
things between Great Britain and America."

334 The Works of [1782

This, he said, was left entirely to me, for he had
no will in the affair; he did not desire to be further
concerned than to see it in train; he had no personal
views either of honor or profit. He had now seen
and conversed with Mr. Grenville, thought him a
very sensible young gentleman, and very capable of
the business; he did not, therefore, see any further
occasion there was for himself, but if I thought other-
wise, and conceived he might be further useful, he
was content to give his time and service, in any
character or manner I should think proper. I said
his knowledge of America, where he had lived, and
with every part of which, and of its commerce and
circumstances, he was well acquainted, made me
think that in persuading the ministry to things
reasonable relating to that country, he could speak
or write with more weight than Mr. Grenville, and
therefore I wished him to continue in the service,
and I asked him whether he would like to be joined
in a general commission for treating with all the
powers at war with England, or to have a special
commission to himself for treating with America
only. He said he did not choose to be concerned
in treaty with the foreign powers, for he was not
sufficiently a master of their affairs or of the French
language, which probably would be used in treating;
if therefore he accepted of any commission, it should
be that of treating with America. I told him I
would write to Lord Shelbume on the subject, but
Mr. Grenville having some time since despatched a
courier, partly on account of the commission, who
was not yet returned, I thought it well to wait a few

1782] Benjamin Franklin 335

days till we could see what answer he would bring or
what measures were taken. This he approved of.

The truth is he appears so good and so reasonable
a man that, though I have no objection to Mr. Gren-
ville, I should be loth to lose Mr. Oswald. He seems
to have nothing at heart but the good of mankind,
and putting a stop to mischief; the other, a young
statesman, may be supposed to have naturally a
little ambition of recommending himself as an able
negotiator.

In the afternoon, M. Boeris, of Holland, called on
me and acquainted me that the answer had not yet
been given to the last memorial from Russia, relating
to the mediation; but it was thought that it would
be in respectful terms to thank her Imperial Majesty
for her kind offers, and to represent the propriety
of their connection with France in endeavors to ob-
tain a general peace, and that they conceived it
would be still more glorious for her Majesty to em-
ploy her influence in procuring a general, than a
particular pacification. M. Boeris further informed
me that they were not well satisfied in Holland with
the conduct of the Russian court, and suspected
views of continuing the war for particular purposes.

Tuesday, June 4th. — I have received another
packet from Mr. Hartley. It consisted of dupli-
cates of former letters and papers already inserted,
and contained nothing new but the following letter
from Colonel Hartley, his brother:

"SoHo Square, 24 May, 1782.

"Dear Sir: — It is with the greatest pleasure I
take up my pen to acknowledge your remembrance

336 The Works of [1782

of me in yours to my brother, and to thank you for
those expressions of regard which I can assure you
are mutual. My brother has desired me to copy
some letters and papers, by way of sending you
duplicates. I am particularly happy at the employ-
ment, because the greatest object of my parliament-
ary Hfe has been to co-operate with him in his
endeavors to put a period to this destructive war,
and forward the blessed work of peace. I hope to see
him again in that situation, where he can so well
serve his country with credit to himself; and while
I have the honor of being in Parliament, my atten-
tion will be continued to promote the effects which
will naturally flow from those principles of freedom
and universal philanthropy you have both so much
supported. While I copy his words, my own feel-
ings and judgment are tnily in unison, and I have
but to add the most ardent wish that peace and
happiness may crown the honest endeavors towards
so desirable an end. I am, dear sir, with the great-
est respect and esteem, yours sincerely,

"W. H. Hartley."

Wednesday, June <,th. — Mr. Oswald called again to
acquaint me that Lord Comwallis, being very anxious
to be discharged from his parole as soon as possible,
had sent a Major Ross hither to solicit it, supposing
Mr. Laurens might be here with me. Mr. Oswald
told me, what I had not heard before, that Mr. Lau-
rens, while prisoner in the Tower, had proposed ob-
taining the discharge of Lord Comwallis in exchange
for himself, and had promised to use his utmost

1782] Benjamin Franklin 337

endeavors to that purpose, in case he was set at Hb-
erty, not doubting of the success. I communicated
to Mr. Oswald what had already passed between Mr.
Laurens and me, respecting Lord Comwallis, which
appears in the preceding letters; and told him I
should have made less difficulty about the discharge
of his parole if Mr. Laurens had informed me of his
being set at liberty in consequence of such an offer
and promise; and I wished him to state this in a
letter to me, that it might appear for my justification
in what I might, with Mr. Laurens, do in the affair,
and that he would procure for me from Major Ross
a copy of the parole, that I might be better ac-
quainted with the nature of it. He accordingly in
the afternoon sent me the following letter :

"Paris, 5 June, 1782.

"Sir: — While Mr. Laurens was under confinement
in England, he promised that, on condition of his
being liberated upon his parole, he would apply to
you for an exchange in favor of Lord Cornwallis, by
a discharge of his Lordship's granted upon the sur-
render of his garrison at the village of York in Vir-
ginia ; and, in case of your being under any difficulty
in making such exchange, he undertook to write to
the Congress, and to request it of that assembly,
making no doubt of obtaining a favorable answer,
without loss of time.

"This proposal, signed by Mr. Laurens' hand, I
carried and delivered, I think in the month of Decem-
ber last, to his Majesty's then secretaries of state,
which was duly attended to, and in consequence
thereof Mr. Laurens was soon after set at full liberty.

VOL. IX. 22.

338 The Works of [1782

And though not a prisoner under parole, yet it is
to be hoped a variation in the mode of discharge will
not be supposed of any essential difference.

"And with respect to Mr. Laurens, I am satisfied
he will consider himself as much interested in the
success of this application, as if his own discharge
had been obtained under the form, as proposed by
the representation, which I delivered to the secre-
taries of state, and, I make no doubt, will sincerely
join my Lord Comwallis in an acknowledgment of
your favor and good offices in granting his Lordship
a full discharge of his parole above mentioned. I
have the honor to be, with much respect, sir, your
most obedient, humble servant,

"Richard Oswald."

"P. S. — Major Ross has got no copy of Lord Com-
wallis' parole. He says it was in the common form,
as in like cases.

"Since writing the above, I recollect I was under
a mistake, as if the proposal of exchange came first
from Mr. Laurens; whereas it was made by his
Majesty's secretaries of state to me that Mr. Laurens
should endeavor to procure the exchange of Lord
Comwallis, so as to be discharged himself. Which
proposal I carried to Mr. Laurens, and had from
him the obligation above mentioned, upon which
the mode of his discharge was settled. R. O."

To this I made the following answer:

Passv, 6 June, 1782.

Sir : — I received the letter you did me the honor
of writing to me respecting the parole of Lord Com-

1782] Benjamin Franklin 339

wallis. You are acquainted with what I wrote some
time since to Mr. Laurens. To-morrow is post day
from Holland, when possibly I may receive an an-
swer with a paper drawn up by him for the ptupose
of discharging that parole, to be signed by us jointly.
I suppose the staying at Paris another day will not
be very inconvenient to Major Ross ; and if I do not
hear to-morrow from Mr. Laurens, I will immedi-
ately, in compliance with your request, do what I
can towards the liberation of Lord Com wallis. I
have the honor to be, with great respect, sir, your
most obedient, humble servant,

B. Franklin.

Friday, June yth. — Major Ross called upon me to
thank me for the favorable intentions I had ex-
pressed in my letter to Mr. Oswald, respecting Lord
Comwallis, and to assure me that his Lordship
would for ever remember it with gratitude, etc. I
told him it was our duty to alleviate, as much as
we could, the calamities of war; that I expected
letters from Mr. Laurens relating to the affair, after
the receipt of which I would immediately complete
it; or, if I did not hear from Mr. Laurens, I would
speak to the Marquis de Lafayette, get his appro-
bation, and finish it without further delay.

Saturday, June 8th. — I received some newspapers
from England, in one of which is the following
paragraph :

From the London Evening Post, of May 30, 1782.

' ' If report on the spot speak truth, Mr. Grenville,
in his first visit to Dr. Franklin, gained a considerable

340 The Works of [1782

point of information as to the powers America had
retained for treating separately with Great Britain,
in case her claims or demands were granted.

"The treaty of February 6, 1778, was made the
basis of this conversation; and by the spirit and
meaning of this treaty, there is no obUgation on
America not to treat separately for peace, after she
is assured England will grant her independence
and a free commerce with all the world.

"The first article of that treaty engages America
and France to be bound to each other as long as
circumstances may require; therefore, the granting
America all she asks of England is breaking the bond
by which the circumstances may bind America to
France.

"The second article says, the meaning and direct
end of the alliance is to insure the freedom and in-
dependence of America. Surely, then, when free-
dom and independence are allowed by Britain,
America may or may not, as she chooses, put an end
to the present war between England and America,
and leave France to war on through all her mad
projects of reducing the power and greatness of
England, while America feels herself possessed of
what she wishes.

' ' By the eighth article of the treaty, neither France
nor America can conclude peace without the assent
of the other; and they engage not to lay down their
arms until the independence of America is acknow-
ledged; but this article does not exclude America
from entering into a separate treaty for peace with
England, and evinces more strongly than the former

1782] Benjamin Franklin 341

articles, that America may enter into a separate
treaty with England when she is convinced that
England has insured to her all that she can reasonably
ask.''

I conjecture that this must be an extract from a
letter of Mr. Grenville's; but it carries an appear-
ance as if he and I had agreed, in these imaginary
discourses, of America's being at liberty to make
peace without France, and whereas my whole dis-
course, in the strongest terms, declared our deter-
minations to the contrary, and the impossibility of
our acting, not only contrary to the treaty, but the
duties of gratitude and honor, of which nothing is
mentioned. This young negotiator seems to value
himself on having obtained from me a copy of the
treaty. I gave it to him freely at his request, it
being not so much a secret as he imagined, having
been printed, first in all the American papers soon
after it was made, then at London in Almon's Re-
membrancer, which I wonder he did not know; and
afterwards in a collection of the American Constitu-
tions, published by order of Congress. As such im-
perfect accounts of our conversations find their way
into the English papers, I must speak to this gentle-
man of its impropriety.^

^ In relation to some of these topics, Mr. Oswald wrote as follows to
the Earl of Shelbume :

"I have nothing of business to trouble your Lordship with, only
that upon one occasion, since my last arrival, Dr. Franklin said they
(the Americans) had been totally left out in Mr. Grenville's powers, as
they extended only to treating with the minister of France. I told
him the deficiency would, no doubt, be supplied in due time, as might
be supposed, since, in the meanwhile, they had been assured by Mr.

342 The Works of [1782

Sunday, June gth. — Dr. Bancroft being intimately
acquainted with Mr. Walpole, I this day gave him
Lord Shelburne's letter to Mr. Oswald, requesting
he would communicate it to that gentleman. Dr.
Bancroft said it was believed both Russia and the
Emperor wish the continuance of the war, and aimed
at procuring for England a peace with Holland, that
England might be better able to continue it against
France and Spain.

The Marquis de Lafayette having proposed to call
on me to-day, I kept back the discharge of Lord
Comwallis, which was written and ready, desiring to
have his approbation of it, as he had in a former con-
versation advised it. He did not come, but late in

Grenville, that his Majesty had agreed to grant independence in the first
instance. The Doctor said it was true, and he was glad of it, and sup-
posed that was all that could be done, until the act depending in
Parliament was passed.

"He then talked of treaties, and said, he thought the best way to
come to a general peace was to treat separately with each party, and
under distinct commissions to one and the same, or different persons.

"By this method, he said, many difficulties, which must arise in dis-
cussing a variety of subjects, not strictly relative to each other, under
the same commission, and to which air the several parties are called,
would be in a great measure avoided. And then at last there will
only remain to consolidate those several settlements into one general
and conclusive treaty of pacification; which, upon inquiry, I found he
understood to be the indispensable mode of final accommodation.

"However material that part of the question might be, regarding
the possibility of an equitable coalescence of so many different pro-
positions and settlements, there was no explanation as to the extent
of their relative dependence on each other. And I did not think it pro-
per to ask for it. He only explained, as to the commissions, that there
might be one to treat with France, one for the Colonies, one for Spain,
and, he added, one for Holland, if it should be thought proper. Mr.
Grenville being very well with the Doctor, he has, no doubt, men-
tioned the same things to him; yet I thought it my duty to communi-
cate to him the substance of this conversation." — Paris, June gth,
MS. Letter.

1782] Benjamin Franklin 343

the evening sent me a note, acquainting me that he
had been prevented, by accompanying the Great
Duke to the review, but would breakfast with me
to-morrow morning.

This day I received a letter from Mr. Dana, dated
at St. Petersburg, April 29th, in which is the follow-
ing passage : ' ' We yesterday received the news that
the States-General had, on the 19th of this month,
(N. S.), acknowledged the independence of the
United States. This event gave a shock here, and
is not well received, as they at least profess to have
flattered themselves that the mediation would have
prevented it, and otherwise brought on a partial
peace between Britain and Holland. This resent-
ment, I beheve, will not be productive of any ill con-
sequences to the Dutch republic." It is true that
while the war continues Russia feels a greater de-
mand for the naval stores, and perhaps at a higher
price. But is it possible that for such petty in-
terests mankind can wish to see their neighbors de-
stroy each other? Or has the project, lately talked
of, some foundation, that Russia and the Emperor
intend driving the Turks out of Europe, and do they
therefore wish to see France and England so weak-
ened as to be unable to assist those people ?

Monday, June loth. — The Marquis de Lafayette
did not come till between eleven and twelve. He
brought with him Major Ross. After breakfast he
told me (Major Ross being gone into another room)
that he had seen Mr. Grenville lately, who asked him
when he should go to America; that he had an-
swered: "I have stayed here longer than I should

344 The Works of [1782

otherwise have done, that I might see whether we
were to have peace or war; but as I see that the
expectation of peace is a joke, and that you only
amuse us without any real intention of treating, I
think to stay no longer, but set out in a few days."
On which Mr. Grenville assured him that it was no
joke; that they were very sincere in their proposal
of treating, and four or five days would convince
the Marquis of it.

The Marquis then spoke to me about a request of
Major Ross' in behalf of himself. Lord Chewton, a
lieutenant-colonel, and Lieutenant Haldane, who
were aides-de-camp to Lord Comwallis, that they
too might be set at liberty with him. I told the
Marquis that he was better acquainted with the
custom in such cases than I, and being himself one
of the generals to whom their parole had been given,
he had more right to discharge it than I had, and
that if he judged it a thing proper to be done, I
wished him to do it. He went into the bureau,
saying he would write something, which he accord-
ingly did ; but it was not, as I expected, a discharge
that he was to sign; it was for me to sign. And
the Major, not liking that which I had drawn for
Lord Comwallis, because there was a clause in it,
reserving to Congress the approbation or disallow-
ance of my act, went away without taking it. Upon
which I the next morning wrote the following to Mr.
Oswald :

Passy, II Jvrne, 1782.

Sir: — I did intend to have waited on you this
morning to inquire after your health, and deliver the

1782] Benjamin Franklin 345

enclosed paper relating to the parole of Lord Com-
wallis, but being obliged to go to Versailles, I must
postpone my visit till to-morrow.

I do not conceive that I have any authority in
virtue of my office here, to absolve that parole in any
degree; I have therefore endeavored to found it as
well as I could on the express power given me by
Congress to exchange General Burgoyne for Mr.
Laurens. A reservation is made of confirmation or
disapprobation by Congress, not from any desire to
restrain the entire liberty of that general, but be-
cause I think it decent and my duty to make such
reservation, and that I might otherwise be blamed
as assuming a power not given me if I undertook
to discharge absolutely a parole given to Congress
without any authority from them for so doing.
With great esteem and respect, etc.,

B. Franklin.

I have received no answer from Mr. Laurens. The
following is the paper mentioned in the above
letter:

The Discharge of Lord Cornwallis from his Parole

The Congress having, by a resolution of the 14th
of June last, empowered me to offer an exchange of
General Burgoyne for the Honorable Henry Lau-
rens, then a prisoner in the Tower of London, and
whose liberty they much desire to obtain, which ex-
change, though proposed by me, according to the
said resolution, had not been accepted or executed
when advice was received that General Burgoyne

346 The Works of [1782

was exchanged in virtue of another agreement, and
Mr. Laurens thereupon having proposed another
lieutenant-general, viz., Lord Comwallis, as an ex-
change for himself, promising that if set at liberty
he would do his utmost to obtain a confirmation of
that proposal, and Mr. Laurens being soon after
discharged, and having since urged me earnestly in
several letters to join with him in absolving the
parole of that general, which appears to be a thing
just and equitable in itself, and for the honor there-
fore of our country, I do hereby, as far as in my
power lies, in virtue of the above resolution, or
otherwise, absolve and discharge the parole of Lord
Comwallis, given by him in Virginia; setting him
at entire liberty to act in his civil or military capacity
until the pleasure of Congress shall be known, to
whom is reserved the confirmation or disapproba-
tion of this discharge, in case they have made, or
shall intend to make, a different disposition.
Given at Passy, this 9th day of June, 1782.

B. Franklin,
Minister Plenipotentiary from the United States
of America to the Court of France

I did not well comprehend the Major's conduct in
refusing this paper. He was come express from
London to solicit the discharge of Lord Comwallis'
parole. He had said that his Lordship was very
anxious to obtain that discharge, being unhappy in
his present situation. One of his objections to it
was that his Lordship, with such a limited discharge
of his parole, could not enter into foreign service.

1782] Benjamin Franklin 347

He declared it was not his Lordship's intention to
return to America. Yet he would not accept the
paper unless the reservation was omitted. I did not
choose to make the alteration, and so he left it, not
well pleased with me.

This day, Tuesday, June nth, I was at Versailles,
and had a good deal of conversation with M. de Ray-
neval. Secretary to the Council. I showed him the
letters I had received by Mr. Oswald from Lord Shel-
burne, and related all the consequent conversation I
had with Mr. Oswald. I related to him also the con-
versation I had had with Mr. Grenville. We con-
cluded that the reason of his courier's not being
returned might be the formalities occasioning delay
in passing the Enabling Bill.

I went down with him to the cabinet of Count de
Vergennes, where all was repeated and explained.
That minister seemed now to be almost persuaded
that the English court was sincere in its declarations
of being desirous of peace. We spoke of all its at-
tempts to separate us, and of the prudence of our
holding together and treating in concert. I made
one remark that, as they had shown so strong a de-
sire of disuniting us by large offers to each particular
power, plainly in the view of dealing more advan-
tageously with the rest, and had reluctantly agreed
to make a general treaty, it was possible that, after
making a peace with all, they might pick out one of
us to make war with separately. Against which
project I thought it would not be amiss if before the
treaties of peace were signed we who were at war
against England should enter into another treaty,

348 The Works of [1782

engaging ourselves that in such a case we should
again make it a common cause, and renew the gen-
eral war, which he seemed to approve of. He read
Lord Shelbume's letter relating to Mr. Walpole, said
that gentleman had attempted to open a negotia-
tion through the Marquis de Castries, who had told
him he was come to the wrong house, and should go
to Count de Vergennes ; but he never had appeared ;
that he was an intriguer, knew many people about
the court, and was accustomed to manage his affairs
by hidden and roundabout ways; but, said he:
"When people have any thing to propose that re-
lates to my employment, I think they should come
directly to me; my cabinet is the place where such
affairs are to be treated." On the whole he seemed
rather pleased that Mr. Walpole had not come to
him, appearing not to like him.

I learned that Mr. Jay had taken leave, on the
7th past, of the Spanish minister, in order to come
hither, so that he may be daily expected ; but I hear
nothing of Mr. Laurens or Mr. Adams.

Wednesday, June 12th. — I visited Mr. Oswald this
morning. He said he had received the paper I had
sent him, relating to the parole of Lord Cornwallis,
and had, by conversing with Major Ross, convinced
him of his error in refusing it; but he saw I had
done every thing that could be fairly desired of me,
and said every thing in the paper that could give a
weight to the temporary discharge, and tend to pre-
vail with the Congress to confirm and complete it.
Major Ross, coming in, made an apology for not
having accepted it at first, declared his perfect satis-

1782] Benjamin Franklin 349

faction with it, and said he was sure Lord Com-
wallis would be very sensible of the favor. He then
mentioned the custom among military people, that
in discharging the parole of a general, that of his aides
was discharged at the same time. I answered, I was
a stranger to the customs of the army, that I had
made the most of the authority I had for exchanging
General Burgoyne, by extending it as a foundation
for the exchange of Lord Cornwallis, but that I had
no shadow of authority for going further; that the
Marquis de Lafayette, having been present when the
parole was given, and one of the generals who re-
ceived it, was, I thought, more competent to the
discharge of it than myself; and I could do nothing
in it. He went then to the Marquis, who, in the
afternoon, sent me the drafts of a limited discharge,
which he should sign, but requested my approbation
of it, of which I made no difficulty, though I ob-
served he had put into it that it was by my advice.
He appears very prudently cautious of doing any
thing that may seem assuming a power that he is
not vested with.

Friday, the 14th. — M. Boeris called again, wishing
to know if Mr. Grenville's courier was returned, and
whether the treaty was like to go on. I could give
him no information. He told me it was intended in
Holland, in answer to the last Russian memorial, to
say, that they could not now enter into a particular
treaty with England, that they thought it more
glorious for her Imperial Majesty to be the mediatrix
in a general treaty, and wished her to name the
place. I said to him: "As you tell me their High

350 The Works of [1782

Mightinesses are not well satisfied with Russia, and
had rather avoid her mediation, would it not be bet-
ter to omit the proposition, at least of her naming the
place, especially as France, England, and America
have already agreed to treat at Paris? " He replied,
it might be better; but, says he, "we have no poli-
ticians among us." I advised him to write and get
that omitted, as I understood it would be a week
before the answer was concluded on. He did not
seem to think his writing would be of much import-
ance. I have observed that his colleague, M. Van-
derpierre, has a greater opinion by far of his own
influence and consequence.

Saturday, June i$th. — Mr. Oswald came out to
breakfast with me. We afterwards took a walk in
the garden, when he told me that Mr. Grenville's
courier returned last night. That he had received by
him a letter from Mrs. Oswald, but not a line from
the ministry, nor had he heard a word from them
since his arrival, nor had he heard of any news
brought by the courier. That he should have gone to
see Mr. Grenville this morning, but he had omitted
it, that gentleman being subject to morning head-
aches, which prevented his rising so early. I said I
supposed he would go to Versailles, and call on me
in his return. We had but little further discourse,
having no new subject.

Mr. Oswald left me about noon, and soon after
Mr. Grenville came and acquainted me with the
return of his courier, and that he had brought the
full powers. That he, Mr. Grenville, had been at
Versailles, and left a copy with Coimt de Vergennes.

1782] Benjamin Franklin 351

That the instrument was in the same terms with the
former, except that, after the power to treat with
the king of France, or his ministers, there was an
addition of words, importing a power to treat with
the ministers of any other Prince or State whom it
might concern. That Count de Vergennes had at
first objected to these general words as not being
particular enough, but said he would lay it before
the king, and communicate it to the ministers of the
belligerent powers, and that Mr. Grenville should
hear from him on Monday. Mr. Grenville added
that he had further informed Count de Vergennes
of his being now instructed to make a proposition
as a basis for the intended treaty, viz., the peace of
1763; that the proposition intended to be made
under his first powers, not being then received, was
now changed, and instead of proposing to allow the
independence of America on condition of England's
being put into the situation she was in at the peace
of 1763, he was now authorized to declare the inde-
pendence of America previous to the treaty as a volun-
tary act, and to propose separately as a basis the
treaty of 1763. This also Count de Vergennes under-
took to lay before the king, and communicate to me.
Mr. Grenville then said to me he hoped all diffi-
culties were now removed, and that we might pro-
ceed in the good work. I asked him if the Enabling
Bill was passed. He said. No. It passed the Com-
mons, and had been once read in the House of Lords,
but was not yet completed. I remarked that the
usual time approached for the prorogation of Parlia-
ment, and possibly this business might be omitted.

352 The Works of [1782

He said there was no danger of that, the Parliament
would not rise this year till the middle of July; the
India affairs had put back other business which must
be done, and would require a prolongation of the
session till that time. I then observed to him that,
though we Americans considered ourselves as a dis-
tinct independent power, or state, yet, as the British
government had always hitherto affected to con-
sider us only as rebellious subjects, and as the En-
abling Act was not yet passed, I did not think it
could be fairly supposed that his court intended by
the general words, any other Prince or State, to in-
clude a people whom they did not allow to be a
state; and that, therefore, I doubted the sufficiency
of his power as to treating with America, though it
might be good as to Spain and Holland. He replied
that he himself had no doubt of the sufficiency of
his power, and was willing to act upon it. I then
desired to have a copy of the power, which he ac-
cordingly promised me.

He would have entered into conversation on the
topic of reconciliation, but I chose still to waive it,
till I should find the negotiation more certainly com-
menced; and I showed him the London paper con-
taining the article above transcribed, that he might
see how our conversations were misrepresented, and
how hazardous it must be for me to make any pro-
positions of the kind at present. He seemed to treat
the newspapers lightly, as of no consequence ; but I
observed that, before he had finished the reading of
the article, he turned to the beginning of the paper
to see the date, which made me suspect that he

1782] Benjamin Franklin 353

doubted whether it might not have taken its rise
from some of his letters.

When he left me, I went to dine with M. de Chau-
mont, who had invited me to meet there Mr. Wal-
pole, at his request. We shook hands, and he
observed that it was near two years since we had seen
each other. Then, stepping aside, he thanked me
for having communicated to him Lord Shelburne's
letter to Mr. Oswald, thought it odd that Mr. Oswald
himself had not spoken to him about it ; said he had
received a letter from Mr. Fox upon the affair of St.
Eustatia, in which there were some general words
expressing a desire of peace ; that he had mentioned
this to the Marquis de Castries, who had referred
him to Count de Vergennes, but he did not think it
a sufficient authority for him to go to that minister.
It was known that he had business with the Minister
of the Marine, on the other affair, and therefore his
going to him was not taken notice of ; but, if he had
gone to Count de Vergennes, Minister of Foreign
Affairs, it would have occasioned speculation and
much discourse; that he had therefore avoided it
till he should be authorized, and had written accord-
ingly to Mr. Fox; but that in the meantime, Mr.
Oswald had been chosen upon the supposition that
he, Mr. Walpole, and I were at variance. He spoke
of Mr. Oswald as an odd kind of man, but that, in-
deed, his nation were generally odd people, etc. We
dined pleasantly together with the family, and parted
agreeably, without entering into any particulars of
the business. Count d'Estaing was at this dinner,
and I met him again in the evening at Madame

354 The Works of [1782

Brillon's. There is at present among the people
much censure of Count de Grasse's conduct, and a
general wish that Count d'Estaing had the command
in America. I avoid meddling or even speaking on
the subject, as improper for me, though I much es-
teem that commander.

Sunday, the 16th. — I heard nothing from Ver-
sailles. I received a letter from Mr. Adams, ac-
quainting me he had drawn upon me for a quarter's
salary, which he hoped would be the last, as he now
found himself in the way of getting some money
there, though not much. But he says not a word
in answer to my late letters on public affairs, nor
have I any line from Mr. Laurens, which I wonder
at. I received also a letter from Mr. Carmichael,
dated June 5th, at Madrid. He speaks of Mr. Jay
being on his journey, and supposes he would be with
me before that letter, so that I may expect him
daily. We have taken lodgings for him in Paris.

Monday, the ijth. — I received a letter from Mr.
Hodgson, acquainting me that the American pris-
oners at Portsmouth, to the number of three hund-
red, were all embarked on board the transports,
that each had received twenty shillings' worth of
necessaries at the expense of government, and went
on board in good humor; that contrary winds had
prevented the transports arriving in time at Ply-
mouth, but that the whole number there now of
our people, amounting to seven hundred, with those
arrived from Ireland, woiild soon be on their way
home.

In the evening the Marquis de Lafayette came to

1782] Benjamin Franklin 355

see me, and said he had seen Count de Vergennes,
who was satisfied with Mr. Grenville's powers. He
asked me what I thought of them, and I told him
what I had said to Mr. Grenville of their imperfection
with respect to us. He agreed in opinion with me.
I let him know that I proposed waiting on Count de
Vergennes to-morrow.

He said he had signed the paper relating to Major
Ross' parole, and hoped Congress would not take it
amiss, and added that, in conversation with the
Major, he had asked him why England was so back-
ward to make propositions, "We are afraid," says
the Major, "of offering you more than you expect
or desire." I find myself in some perplexity with
regard to these two negotiators. Mr. Oswald ap-
pears to have been the choice of Lord Shelburne,
Mr. Grenville that of Mr. Secretary Fox. Lord
Shelburne is said to have lately acquired much of
the king's confidence. Mr. Fox calls himself the
minister of the people, and it is certain that his
popularity is lately much increased. Lord Shel-
burne seems to wish to have the management of the
treaty; Mr. Fox seems to think it in his department.
I hear that the understanding between these min-
isters is not quite perfect. Mr. Grenville is clever,
and seems to feel reason as readily as Mr. Oswald,
though not so ready to own it. Mr. Oswald ap-
pears quite plain and sincere; I sometimes a little
doubt Mr. Grenville. Mr. Oswald, an old man,
seems now to have no desire but that of being useful
in doing good. Mr. Grenville, a young man, natur-
ally desirous of acquiring reputation, seems to aim

356 The Works of [1782

at that of being an able negotiator. Mr. Oswald
does not solicit to have any share in the business,
but, submitting the matter to Lord Shelbume and
me, expresses only his willingness to serve, if we
think he may be useful, and is equally willing to be
excused, if we judge there is no occasion for him.
Mr. Grenville seems to think the whole negotiation
committed to him, and to have no idea of Mr. Os-
wald's being concerned in it, and is therefore willing
to extend the expressions in his commission, so as
to make them comprehend America, and this beyond
what I think they will bear. I imagine we might,
however, go on very well with either of them, though
I should rather prefer Oswald; but I apprehend
difficulties if they are both employed, especially if
there is any misunderstanding between their princi-
pals. I must, however, write to Lord Shelbume,
proposing something in consequence of his offer of
vesting Mr. Oswald with any commission which
that gentleman and I should think proper.

Tuesday, the iSth. — I found myself much indis-
posed with a sudden and violent cold, attended with
a feverishness and headache. I imagined it to be an
effect of the influenza, a disorder now reigning in
various parts of Europe. This prevented my going
to Versailles.

Thursday, the 20th. — Weather excessively hot,
and my disorder continues, but is lessened, the head-
ache having left me. I am, however, not yet able to
go to Versailles.

Friday, the 21st. — I received the following note
from the Marquis de Lafayette :

1782] Benjamin Franklin 357

"Versailles, Thursday morning, 20 June, 1782.

"My Dear Sir: — Agreeably to your desire, I have
waited upon the Count de Vergennes, and said to
him what I had in command from your Excellency.
He intends taking the king's orders this morning,
and expects he will be able to propose to Mr. Gren-
ville a meeting for to-morrow, when he will have
time to explain himself respecting France and her
allies, that he may make an official commimication
both to the king and the allied ministers. What
Count de Vergennes can make out of this conversa-
tion will be communicated by him to your Excel-
lency, in case you are able to come. In the other
case I shall wait upon you to-morrow evening with
every information I can collect. I have the honor
to be, very respectfully, etc., ''Lafayette."

In the evening the Marquis called upon me, and
acquainted me that Mr. Grenville had been with
Count de Vergennes, but could not inform me what
had passed.

Saturday, the 2 2d. — Messrs. Oswald and White-
foord came and breakfasted with me. Mr. Oswald
had received no letters or instructions. I told him I
would write to Lord Shelbume respecting him, and
call on him on Monday morning to breakfast, and
show him what I proposed to write, that it might re-
ceive such alterations as he should judge proper.

Sunday, the 2^d. — In the afternoon Mr. Jay ar-
rived, to my great satisfaction. I proposed going
with him next morning to Versailles, and presenting
him to M. de Vergennes. He informed me that the

358 The Works of [1782

Spanish ministers had been much struck with the
news from England respecting the resolutions of
Parliament to discontinue the war in America, etc.,
and that they had since been extremely civil to him,
and he understood intended to send instructions to
their ambassador at this court to make the long-
talked-of treaty with him here.

Monday, the 24th. — Wrote a note of excuse to Mr.
Oswald, promising to see him on Wednesday, and
went with Mr. Jay to Versailles. Count de Vergen-
nes acquainted us that he had given to Mr. Grenville
the answer to his propositions, who had imme-
diately despatched it to his court. He read it to us,
and I shall endeavor to obtain a copy of it. Count
de Vergennes informing us that a frigate was about
to be despatched for America, by which we might
write, and that the courier who was to carry down
the despatches would set out on Wednesday morn-
ing, we concluded to omit coming to court on Tues-
day, in order to prepare our letters. Count de
Vergennes appeared to have some doubts about the
sincerity of the British court and the bonne foi of
Mr. Grenville, but said the return of Mr. Grenville 's
courier might give light. I wrote the following
letters to Mr. Secretary Livingston and Mr. Morris.

Passy, 25 June, 1782.

Sir: — I have received your respective letters of
January 26th * and February 13th. The first was
accompanied with a form of a convention for the
establishment of consuls. Mr. Barclay having been
detained these six months in Holland, though in

* See Diplomatic Correspondence, Vol. III., p. 294.

1782] Benjamin Franklin 359

continual expectation of returning hither, I have yet
done nothing in that business, thinking his presence
might be of use in settling it. As soon as he arrives
I shall move the completion of it.

The second enforces some resolutions of Con-
gress sent me with it, respecting a loan of twelve
milHons of hvres to be demanded of France for the
current year. I have already received the promise of
six millions, together with the clearest and most
positive assurances that it was all the king could
spare to us, that we must not expect more, that if
drafts and demands came upon me beyond that sum
it behoved me to take care how I accepted them, or
where I should find fimds for the payment, since I
could certainly not be further assisted out of the
royal treasury. Under this declaration, with what
face could I ask for another six millions? It would
be saying you are not to be believed, you can spare
more ; you are able to lend me twice the sum if you
were but willing. If you read my letter to Mr. Mor-
ris of this date, I think you will be convinced how
improper any language, capable of such a construc-
tion, would be to such a friend. I hope, however,
that the loan Mr. Adams has opened in Holland for
three millions of florins, which it is said is likely to
succeed, will supply the deficiency.

By the newspapers I have sent, you will see that
the general disposition of the British nation towards
us had been changed. Two persons have been sent
here by the new ministers to propose treating for
peace. They had at first some hopes of getting the
belligerent powers to treat separately, one after

36o The Works of [1782

another, but finding that impracticable, they have,
after several messengers sent to and fro, come to a
resolution of treating with all together for a general
peace, and have agreed that the place shall be Paris.
Mr. Grenville is now here with full powers for that
purpose (if they can be reckoned full with regard to
America till a certain act is completed for enabling
his Majesty to treat, etc., which has gone through
the Commons, and has been once read in the House
of Lords). I keep a very particular journal of what
passes every day in the affair, which is transcribing
to be sent to you. I shall therefore need to say no
more about it in this letter except that though I still
think they were sincere at first in their desire of
peace, yet since their success in the West Indies I
imagine that I see marks of their desiring rather to
draw the negotiations into length, that they may
take the chance of what the campaign shall produce
in their favor; and as there are so many interests to
adjust, it will be prudent for us to suppose that even
another campaign may pass before all can be agreed.
Something, too, may happen to break off the nego-
tiations, and we should be prepared for the worst.

I hoped for the assistance of Mr. Adams and Mr.
Laurens. The first is too much engaged in Holland
to come hither, and the other declines serving; but
I have now the satisfaction of being joined by Mr.
Jay, who happily arrived here from Madrid last
Sunday. The Marquis de Lafayette is of great use
in our affairs here, and as the campaign is not likely
to be very active in North America, I wish I may be
able to prevail with him to stay a few weeks longer.

1782] Benjamin Franklin 361

By him you will receive the journal above mentioned,
which is already pretty voluminous, and yet the
negotiations cannot be said to be opened.

Ireland, you will see has obtained all her demands
triumphantly. I meet no one from that country who
does not express some obligations to America for
their success.

Before I received your just observations on the
subject, I had obtained from the English ministers
a resolution to exchange all our prisoners. They
thought themselves obliged to have an act of Parlia-
ment about it for authorizing the king to do it, this
war being different from others, as made by an act of
Parliament declaring us rebels, and our people being
committed for high treason. I empowered Mr.
Hodgson, who was chairman of the committee that
collected and dispensed the charitable subscriptions
for the American prisoners, to treat and conclude on
the terms of their discharge; and, having approved
of the draft he sent me of the agreement, I hope
Congress will see fit to order a punctual execution
of it. I have long suffered with those poor brave
men, who with so much public virtue have endured
four or five years' hard imprisonment, rather than
serve against their coimtry. I have done all I could
afford towards making their situation more com-
fortable; but their numbers were so great that I
could do but little for each, and that very great
villain, Digges, defrauded them of between three
and four hundred pounds, which he drew from me
on their account. He lately wrote me a letter, in
which he pretended he was coming to settle with

362 The Works of [1782

me, and to convince me that I had been mistaken
with regard to his conduct; but he never appeared,
and I hear he is gone to America. Beware of him,
for he is very artful, and has cheated many. I hear
every day of new rogueries committed by him in
England.

The ambassador from Sweden to this court ap-
plied to me lately to know if I had powers that
would authorize my making a treaty with his mas-
ter in behalf of the United States. Recollecting a
general power, that was formerly given to me with
the other commissioners, I answered in the affirma-
tive. He seemed much pleased, and said the king
had directed him to ask the question, and charged
him to tell me that he had so great esteem for me
that it would be a particular satisfaction to him to
have such a transaction with me. I have perhaps
some vanity in repeating this ; but I think, too, that
it is right that Congress should know it, and judge
if any use may be made of the reputation of a citizen
for the public service. In case it should be thought
fit to employ me in that business, it will be well to
send a more particular power and proper instruc-
tions. The ambassador added that it was a pleasure
to him to think, and he hoped it would be remem-
bered, that Sweden was the first power in Europe
which had voluntarily offered its friendship to the
United States without being solicited. This affair
should be talked of as little as possible till completed.

I enclose another complaint from Denmark,
which I request you to lay before Congress. I am
continually pestered with complaints from French

1782] Benjamin Franklin 3^3

seamen, who were with Captain Conyngham in his
first cruise from Dunkirk; from others who were in
the Lexington, the Alliance, etc., being put on board
prizes that were retaken, were never afterwards able
to join their respective ships, and so have been de-
prived of the wages, etc., due to them. It is for our
national honor that justice should be done them, if
possible ; and I wish you to procure an order of Con-
gress for inquiring into their demands, and satisfying
such as shall be found just. It may be addressed to
the consul.

I enclose a note from M. de Vergennes to me,
accompanied by a memoir relating to a Swiss, who
died at Edenton. If you can procure the informa-
tion desired, it will much oblige the French ambas-
sador in Switzerland.

I have made the addition you directed, to the
cipher. I rather prefer the old one of Dumas per-
haps because I am more used to it. I enclose several
letters from that ancient and worthy friend of our
country. He is now employed as secretary to Mr.
Adams, and I must, from a long experience of his
zeal and usefulness, beg leave to recommend him
warmly to the consideration of Congress, with regard
to his appointments, which have never been equal to
his merit. As Mr. Adams writes me the good news,
that he shall no longer be obliged to draw on me for
his salary, I suppose it will be proper to direct his
paying that which shall be allowed to M. Dumas.
Be pleased to present my duty to the Congress, and
believe me to be, with great esteem and regard,

B. Franklin.

364 The Works of [1782

Passy, 25 June, 1782.

Sir: For what relates to war and peace,

I must refer you to Mr. Livingston, to whom I write
fully. I will only say that, though the English a
few months since seemed desirous of peace, I suspect
they now intend to draw out the negotiation into
length, till they can see what this campaign will pro-
duce. I hope our people will not be deceived by
fair words, but be on their guard, ready against
every attempt that our insidious enemies may make
upon us. I am, etc., B.Franklin.

Wednesday, the 26th. — I sent away my letters, and
went to see Mr. Oswald. I showed him the draft of
a letter to be addressed to him instead of Lord Shel-
bume, respecting the commission or public character
he might hereafter be vested with. This draft was
founded on Lord Shelbume's memorandums, which
Mr. Oswald had shown to me, and this letter was in-
tended to be communicated by him to Lord Shel-
bume. Mr. Oswald liked the mode, but rather
chose that no mention should be made of his having
shown me Lord Shelbume's memorandums, though
he thought they were given to him for that purpose.
So I struck that part out, and new modelled the
letter, which I sent him the next day, as follows :

Passy, 27 June, 1782.

Sir : — The opinion I have of your candor, probity,
and good understanding, and good-will to both coun-
tries, made me hope you would have been vested with
the character of plenipotentiary to treat with those
from America. When Mr. Grenville produced his

1782] Benjamin Franklin 365

first commission, which was only to treat with France,
I did imagine that the other to treat with us was re-
served for you, and kept only till the Enabling Bill
should be passed. Mr. Grenville has since received
a second commission, which, as he informs me, has
additional words, empowering him to treat with the
ministers of any other Prince or State whom it may
concern; and he seems to understand that those
general words comprehend the United States of
America. There may be no doubt that they may
comprehend Spain and Holland; but as there exist
various public acts by which the government of
Britain denies us to be states, and none in which they
acknowledge us to be such, it seems hardly clear that
we could be intended at the time the commission was
given, the Enabling-Act not being then passed. So
that, though I can have no objection to Mr. Grenville,
nor right to make it, if I had any, yet, as your long
residence in America has given you a knowledge of
that country, its people, circumstances, commerce,
etc., which, added to your experience in business,
may be useful to both sides in facilitating and expe-
diting the negotiation, I cannot but hope that it is
still intended to vest you with the character above
mentioned, respecting the treaty with America,
either separately or in conjunction with Mr. Gren-
ville, as to the wisdom of your ministers may seem
best. Be it as it may, I beg you would accept this line
as a testimony of the sincere esteem and respect with
which, etc., ^ Franklin.^

I In conformity to Dr. Franklin's suggestion, previously made to
Mr. Oswald, the British ministry appointed separate commissions to

366 The Works of [1782

Friday, June 2Sth. — M. de Rayneval called upon
me, and acquainted me that the ministers had re-
ceived intelligence from England that besides the
orders given to General Carleton to propose terms of
reunion to America, artful emissaries were sent over
to go through the country and stir up the people to
call on the Congress to accept those terms, they be-
ing similar to those settling with Ireland; that it
would therefore be well for Mr. Jay and me to write
and caution Congress against these practices. He
said Count de Vergennes wished also to know what
I had written respecting the negotiation, as it would
be well for us to hold pretty near the same language.
I told him that I did not apprehend the least danger
that such emissaries would meet with any success, or

negotiate treaties of peace, as appears by the following extract from
a letter written by the Earl of Shelburne to Mr. Oswald:

" I hope to receive early assurances from you, that my confidence in
the sincerity and good faith of Dr. Franklin has not been misplaced,
and that he will concur with you in endeavoring to render effectual
the great work in which our hearts and wishes are so equally interested.
You will observe, that we have adopted his idea of the method to come
to a general pacification by treating separately with each party. I
cannot but entertain a firm reUance that the appointment of the
particular commissioners will be no less satisfactory to him. He has
very lately warranted me to depend upon that effect in the instance of
your nomination, and he will not be surprised at the choice of your
colleague, Mr. Jackson, when he considers how very conversant Mr.
Jackson is with the subject of America, and how very sincere a friend
he has tmiformly shown himself to be to the reestablishment of peace
and harmony between that country and this."— Whitehall, June 30,
1782. MS.

Mr. Richard Jackson, who was associated with Mr. Oswald in the
commission, had been long connected with Dr. Franklin in the trans-
action of Pennsylvania affairs in England and is often mentioned in
the earlier parts of this correspondence. It is uncertain whether he
accepted the appointment of commissioner. At any rate, he did not
go to Paris, nor take any part in the negotiation.

1782] Benjamin Franklin 367

that the Congress would make any treaty with Gen-
eral Carleton; that I would, however, write as he
desired, and Mr. Jay, coming in, promised the same.
He said the courier would go to-morrow. I accord-
ingly wrote as follows to Mr. Secretary Livingston
and to my friend Dr. Cooper:

Passy, 28 June, 1782.

Sir: — In mine of the 25th instant I omitted
mentioning that, at the repeated earnest instances
of Mr. Laurens, who had given such expectations to
the ministry in England when his parole or secur-
ities were discharged, as that he could not think
himself at liberty to act in public affairs till the
parole of Lord Comwallis was absolved by me in
exchange, I sent to that general the paper, of which
the enclosed is a copy, and I see by the English
papers that his Lordship, immediately on the re-
ceipt of it, appeared at court, and has taken his seat
in the House of Peers, which he did not before think
was warrantable. My authority for doing this ap-
peared questionable to myself, but Mr. Laurens
judged it deducible from that respecting General
Burgoyne, and, by his letters to me, seemed so
unhappy till it was done, that I ventured it, with a
clause, however, as you will see, reserving to Con-
gress the approbation or disallowance of it.

The Enabling Act is now said to be passed, but
no copy of it is yet received here, so that as the
bill first printed has suffered alterations in passing
through Parliament, and we know not what they
are, the treaty with us is not yet commenced. Mr.
Grenville expects his courier in a few days, with the

368 The Works of [1782

answer of his court to a paper given him on the part
of this. That answer will probably afford us a
clearer understanding of the intentions of the Brit-
ish ministry, which for some weeks past have ap-
peared somewhat equivocal and uncertain. It looks
as if, since their late success in the West Indies, they
a little repented of the advances they had made in
their declarations respecting the acknowledgment
of our independence, and we have pretty good in-
formation that some of the ministers still flatter the
king with the hope of recovering his sovereignty
over us on the same terms as are now making with
Ireland. However willing we might have been at
the commencement of this contest to have accepted
such conditions, be assured we can have no safety
in them at present. The king hates us most cor-
dially. If he is once admitted to any degree of
power and government among us, however limited,
it will soon be extended by corruption, artifice, and
force, till we are reduced to absolute subjection,
and that the more easily as by receiving him again
for our king, we shall draw upon us the contempt
of all Europe, who now admire and respect us, and
shall never again find a friend to assist us.

There are, it is said, great divisions in the minis-
try on other points as well as this, and those who
aim at engrossing the power, flatter the king with
this project of reunion, and it is said have much re-
liance on the operations of private agents sent into
America to dispose minds there in favor of it, and to
bring about a separate treaty there with General
Carleton. I have not the least apprehension that

1782] Benjamin Franklin 369

Congress will give in to this scheme, it being incon-
sistent with our treaties, as well as with our interest,
but I think it will be well to watch the emissaries, and
secure, or banish immediately, such as shall be found
tampering and stirring up the people to call for it.

The firm, united resolution of France, Spain,
and Holland, joined with ours, not to treat of a
particular, but a general peace, notwithstanding the
separate tempting offers to each, will in the end give
us the command of that peace. Every one of the
other powers sees clearly its interest in this, and per-
sists in that resolution. The Congress, I am per-
suaded, are as clear-sighted as any of them, and will
not depart from the system which has been attended
with so much success, and promises to make America
soon both great and happy.

I have just received a letter from Mr. Laurens,
dated at Lyons, on his journey into the south of
France for his health. Mr. Jay will write also by
this opportunity. With great esteem, I have the
honor to be, etc., B. Franklin.

Passy, June, 1782.

Our public affairs are in a good situation

here. England, having tried in vain to make a
separate peace with each of the powers she is at war
with, has at length agreed to treat for a general
peace with them all together; and at Paris. If we
all continue firm in the resolution not to separate,
we shall command the terms. I have no doubt of
this steadiness here; and though we are told that
endeavors are making on your side the water to

VOL. IX. 24.

370 The Works of [1782

induce America to a reunion on the terms now grant-
ing to Ireland, and that powers are sent to General
Carleton for that purpose, I am persuaded the dan-
ger of this project will appear so evident that, if
offered, it will be immediately rejected. We have
no safety but in our independence; with that we
shall be respected, and soon become great and
happy. Without it we shall be despised, lose all
our friends, and then either be cruelly oppressed by
the king, who hates, and is incapable of forgiving
us, or, having all that nation's enemies for ours,
shall sink with it. I am ever, my dear friend, yours
most affectionately, B. Franklin.

M. de Rayneval, who is Secretary to the Council
of State, called again in the evening. I gave him
copies of the three preceding letters to peruse and
show to Count de Vergennes, to convince him that
we held no underhand dealing here. I own I had, at
the same time, another view in it, which was, that
they should see I had been ordered to demand fur-
ther aids, and had forborne to make the demands,
with my reasons, hoping that if they could possibly
help us to more money, they might be induced to
do it.

I had never made any visit to Count d'Aranda, the
Spanish ambassador, for reasons before mentioned.
M. de Rayneval told Mr. Jay and me this morning
that it would be well for us to wait on him, and he
had authority to assure us we should be well received.
We accordingly concluded to wait on his Excellency
the next morning.

1782] Benjamin Franklin 371

Saturday, June 2gth. — We went together to the
Spanish ambassador's, who received us with great
civiHty and poHteness. He spoke with Mr. Jay on
the subject of the treaty they were to make together,
and mentioned in general, as a principle, that the two
powers should consider each other's conveniency,
and accommodate and compensate each other as
well as they could. That an exact compensation
might perhaps not be possible, but should be ap-
proached as nearly as the nature of things would
admit. "Thus," says he, "if there is a certain thing
which would be convenient to each of us, but more
convenient to one than to the other, it should be
given to the one to whom it would be most con-
venient, and compensation made by giving another
thing to the other, for the same reason." I suppose
he had in view something relating to boundaries
or territories, because, he added, we will sit down
together with maps in our hands, and, by that means,
shall see our way more clearly. I learned from him
that the expedition against Providence had sailed,
but no advice was yet received of its success. On
our going out, he took pains himself to open the
folding-doors for us, which is a high compliment
here; and told us he would return our visit, rendre
son devoir, and then fix a day with us for dining with
him. I dined with Mr. Jay and a company of Amer-
icans at his lodgings.

Sunday, June ^oth. — M. Grenville called on me.

Dr. Franklin's Journal closes abruptly here. To
make it a satisfactory record of the negotiations as

372 The Works of [1782

they broadened and deepened in their course, no
doubt he found it required more time and considera-
tion than he could well spare, or perhaps he thought
it was worth, as the substance of what was done was
necessarily reduced to writing in the correspondence
of the parties to the negotiation. — Editor.

MLXXXVI

TO HENRY LAURENS

Passy, 2 July, 1782.

Sir: — I received the letter you did me the honor
of writing to me from Lyons the 24th past.

I wonder a little at Mr. not acquainting you

whether your name was in the commission or not. I
begin to suspect, from various circumstances, that
the British ministry, elated perhaps too much by
the success of Admiral Rodney, are not in earnest
to treat immediately, but rather wish delay. They
seem to hope that further successes may enable them
to treat more advantageously ; or, as some suppose,
that certain propositions to be made to Congress by
General Carleton may render a treaty here with us
unnecessary. A little bad news, which it is possible
they may yet receive from the same quarter, will
contribute to set them right ; and then we may enter
seriously upon the treaty; otherwise I conjecture it
may not take place till after another campaign.
Mr. Jay is arrived here. Mr. Grenville and Mr. Os-
wald continue here. Mr. Oswald has yet received

1782] Benjamin Franklin 373

no commission; and that of Mr. Grenville does
not very clearly comprehend us, according to British
ideas; therefore it requires explication. When I
know more you shall have further information.*

* From Richard Oswald to the Earl of Shelburne. — "I beg leave under
this cover to transmit to your Lordship a letter directed to myself from
Dr. Franklin, which he sent to me on the 27th of June, the day it is
dated; and I will also take notice of what passed between him and me
in consequence of it.

"I have kept it in my hands until now, to go by the return of the first
courier that arrives, which Mr. Grenville has been expecting daily, but
as none had appeared, and thinking the Doctor could have no meaning
in putting such a letter into my hands, but with a view to its being
forwarded to your Lordship, and might perhaps be disappointed or
disobliged if delayed. I thought it right to let him know that it was not
sent, and the reason of its still remaining in my hands on that account;
and wishing to have an opporttmity of talking to him on the subject of
it, I went to his house on Saturday the 6th instant, and stayed with him
about an hour.

"After thanking him for his good opinion of me, as expressed in that
letter, and giving the reason for its not being forwarded, I told him that
this interval of delay had given occasion to sundry questions in my
own mind as to the business we should have to treat about, in case I
should be appointed and should undertake the office he was pleased
to recommend in that letter. With France and the other parties, I
was sensible there must be many points to be settled. But with respect
to the colonies, I told him I could not easily conceive how there could
arise any variety of subject to treat upon ; that, as to a final conclusion,
the treaty with France might make it necessary to wait the event of a
determination as to them, so as both might be included in one settle-
ment; but until then I could not see there would be much field for
negotiation between Great Britain and the commissioners of the
colonies after their independence had been granted; and which, being
in a manner acknowledged, I had been in hopes there remained no
questions of either side that would reqmre much discussion. If he
thought it would be otherwise, I told him I would be much obliged to
him to give me a hint of them, as the questions could not but be
material to me in considering whether I might venture upon such a
charge. That this I would request of him as a friend, and I hoped I
might also expect of him as a friend to England, which I must still
suppose him to be ; and in which I was not singular, believing it was
the universal opinion at home, and particularly with regard to yoiir
lordship, who, I had reason to be assured, had the greatest confidence

374 The Works of [1782

Not having an immediate answer to what I wrote
you concerning the absolution of Lord ComwaUis'

in his good intentions towards our country. That I did not just then
desire or expect an answer, but if he would name any other day, I
should wait on him in hopes of having his opinion and advice upon the
particular subject of this colony treaty, and his sentiments in general
upon the whole of these affairs, which I was certain would be of service
in guiding us how to proceed in the safest and quickest course to a final
conclusion of this unhappy business.

"That I had too just a notion of his character to expect any informa-
tion but such as would not be inconsistent with particular engagements.
But where that did not interfere, his granting the favor I asked might
be doing a good office to all parties concerned; for I could not help
thinking that the commissioners of the colonies had it much in their
power to give despatch to the general treaty, and to end it on just and
reasonable terms, even notwithstanding their particular treaty with
France. Upon this, the Doctor said they had no treaty with France
but what was pubUshed. I said I was glad it was so, since I saw no-
thing there, however guarded, against a separate peace, that should
direct or control the conditions of a treaty between them and Great
Britain, excepting the provision for the great article of independence,
which was now out of the question.

"That whatever advice or hints (regarding that purpose) the Doctor
would be pleased to give me, I would make no indiscreet use of, but
would pledge my honor that they should be strictly kept under such
directions of communication as he should think fit to prescribe.

"After allowing me to go on in this way, he said there were some
things which he wished England to think of, or to agree to (I forget
which) , and yet he should not like that they were known to have been
suggested by him. At last he told me if I would come out to his house
on Wednesday the loth, he would show me a minute of some things
which he thought might be deserving of notice upon the occasion. If
we agreed in opinion it was so far well; if not, that I should let him
know, and he would be glad to have my opinion; and where we agreed
I might make use of his sentiments as my own to any good purpose I
might think proper.

"I forgot to mention that I told the Doctor that I would write to
your Lordship by the first courier for leave to return for some time to
England, and wished he might give me something to carry that might
be acceptable to your Lordship. I shall be better able to judge after
I have seen him on Wednesday. He again mentioned Canada, and
said there would be no soUd peace while it remained an English colony. "
— Paris, July 8th. MS. Letter.

Two days afterwards Mr. Oswald wrote another long despatch to the

1782] Benjamin Franklin 375

parole, and Major Ross coming hither from him
to press it, I gave him the discharge you desired.

Earl of Shelbume, detailing his conversations with Dr. Franklin. Such
extracts are given below as contain the chief points of these conversa-
tions. They are remarkable as showing that all the prominent articles
of the treaty, as it was finally agreed to and ratified, were proposed and in-
sisted on by him before Mr. Oswald had seen either of the other American
commissioners.

From Richard Oswald to the Earl of Shelbume.— "In consequence of
Dr. Franklin's appointment, as mentioned in my letter of the 8th under
this cover, I went out to his house this morning and stayed with him
near two hours, with a view of obtaining the information and advice I
wished for, as to the terms and conditions upon which he thought the
treaty between Great Britain and the commissioners of the colonies
might be carrying on, and proceed to a conclusion. Having reminded
him of what he in a manner promised on the 6th, he took out a minute
and read from it a few hints or articles; some, he said, as necessary for
them to insist on; others, which he could not say he had any orders
about, or were not absolutely demanded, and yet such as it would be
advisable for England to offer for the sake of reconciliation and her
future interest, viz. :

"ist. Of the first class, necessary to be granted; independence, full
and complete in every sense, to the Thirteen States; and all troops to
be withdrawn from thence.

" 2dly. A settlement of the boundaries of their colonies and the loyal
colonies.

" 3dly. A confinement of the boiindaries of Canada; at least to what
they were before the last act of Parliament, I think in 1774, if not to a
still more contracted state, on an ancient footing.

" 4thly. A freedom of fishing on the Bank of Newfoundland and else-
where, as well for fish as whales. I own I wondered he should have
thought it necessary to ask for this privilege.

"He did not mention the leave of drying fish on shore in Newfound-
land, and I said nothing of it. I do not remember any more articles
which he said they would insist on, or what he called necessary to them
to be granted.

"Then, as to the advisable articles, or such as he would, as a friend,
recommend to be offered by England, viz. :

"ist. To indemnify many people who had been ruined by towns
burnt and destroyed. The whole might not exceed five or six hundred
thousand pounds. I was struck at this. However, the Doctor said
though this was a large sum it would not be ill bestowed, as it would
conciliate the resentment of a multitude of poor sufferers who could

37^ The Works of [1782

Enclosed I send you a copy. I hear it has proved
satisfactory to him; I hope it will be so to you.
Believe me to be, with great esteem, etc.,

B. Franklin.

have no other remedy, and who, without some relief, would keep up a
spirit of secret revenge and animosity for a long time to come against
Great Britain; whereas a volimtary offer of such reparation would
diffuse a universal calm and conciliation over the whole country.

" 2dly. Some sort of acknowledgment in some pubUc act of parlia-
ment, or otherwise, of our error in distressing those countries so much
as we had done. A few words of that kind, the Doctor said, would do
more good than people could imagine.

"3dly. Colony ships and trade to be received and have the same
privileges in Britain and Ireland as British ships and trade. I did not
ask any explanation on that head for the present. British and Irish
ships in the colonies to be in like manner on the same footing with their
own ships.

' ' 4thly. Giving up every part of Canada.

"If there were any other articles of either kind I cannot now recollect
them; but I do not think there were any of material consequence, and I
perhaps was the less attentive in the enumeration, as it had been agreed
to give me the whole in writing. But after some reflection the Doctor
said he did not like to give such writing out of his hands ; and hesitating
a good deal about it, asked me if I had seen Mr. Jay, the other com-
missioner, lately come from Madrid. I said I had not. He then told
me it would be proper I should see him, and he would fix a time for our
meeting, and seemed to think he should want to confer with him him-
self before he gave a final answer. I told him, if I had such final answer,
and had leave, I would carry it over to England. He said that would
be right, but that as Mr. Grenville told him he expected another courier
in four or five days, I had better wait so long, and he would write along
with me.

"Upon the whole, the Doctor expresses himself in a friendly way
towards England, and was not without hopes that if we should settle
on this occasion in the way he wished, England would not only have a
beneficial intercourse with the colonies, but at last it might end in a
federal union between them. In the meantime we ought to take care
not to force them into the hands of other people. He showed me a
copy of the Enabling Bill, as it is called, and said he observed the word
'revolted' was left out; and likewise added that the purpose of it was
to dispense with acts of Parliament which they were indifferent about,
and that now they were better prepared for war, and more able to

1782] Benjamin Franklin m

MLXXXVII

TO JAMES HUTTON

Passy, 7 July, 1782.

My Old and Dear Friend: — A letter written by
you to M. Bertin, Ministre d Etat, containing an ac-
count of the abominable murders committed by
some of the frontier people on the poor Moravian

carry it on than ever they were. That he had heard we entertained
some expectation of retaining some sort of sovereignty over them, as
his Majesty had of Ireland ; and that if we thought so, we should find
ourselves much disappointed, for they would yield to nothing of that
sort.

"From this conversation I have some hopes, my Lord, that it is
possible to put an end to the American quarrel in a short time, and
when that is done, I have a notion that the treaty with the other powers
will go more smoothly on. The Doctor did not, in the cotirse of the
above converstaion, hesitate as to a conclusion with them, on account
of any connection with those other states; and in general seemed to
think their American affairs must be ended by a separate commission.
On these occasions I said I supposed, in case of such a commission, he
meant that the power of granting independence would be therein ex-
pressly mentioned. He said, 'No doubt.' I hinted this, thinking it
better in the power of treating to include independence, than to grant
independence separately, and then to treat about other matters with the
commissioners of such independent States ; who by such grant are on
the same footing with ministers of other powers. I did not perceive
he made any account of this distinction, and I did not think proper to
say any thing more about it.

"I forget one thing the Doctor said with respect to some provision or
reparation to those called the loyal sufferers. It would be impossible
to make any such provision. They were so numerous, and their cases
so various, that he could not see that it could make any part of the
treaty. There might be particular cases that deserved compassion.
These being left to the several States, they might perhaps do some-
thing for them. But they, as commissioners, could do nothing. He
then read to me the orders in Carolina for confiscating and selling of
estates under the direction of the military, by which so great a number
of families had been ruined, and which the people there felt so much as
would stifle their compassion for the sufferers on the other side." —
Paris, July loth, MS. Letter.

378 The Works of [1782

Indians, has given me infinite pain and vexation.
The dispensations of Providence in this world puzzle
my weak reason; I cannot comprehend why cruel
men should have been permitted thus to destroy
their fellow-creatures. Some of the Indians may
be supposed to have committed sins, but one cannot
think the little children had committed any worthy
of death. Why has a single man in England, who
happens to love blood and to hate Americans, been
permitted to gratify that bad temper by hiring Ger-
man murderers, and, joining them with his own, to
destroy in a continued course of bloody 3^ears near
one hundred thousand human creatures, many of
them possessed of useful talents, virtues, and abil-
ities, to which he has no pretension? It is he who
has furnished the savages with hatchets and scalp-
ing-knives, and engages them to fall upon our de-
fenceless farmers and murder them with their wives
and children, paying for their scalps, of which the
account kept in America already amounts, as I have
heard, to near two thousand!

Perhaps the people of the frontiers, exasperated
by the cruelties of the Indians, have been induced to
kill all Indians that fall into their hands without dis-
tinction; so that even these horrid murders of our
poor Moravians may be laid to his charge. And yet
this man lives, enjoys all the good things this world
can afford, and is surrounded by flatterers, who keep
even his conscience quiet by telling him he is the
best of princes ! I wonder at this, but I cannot there-
fore part with the comfortable belief of a Divine
Providence; and the more I see the impossibility,

1782] Benjamin Franklin 379

from the number and extent of his crimes, of giving
equivalent punishment to a wicked man in this life,
the more I am convinced of a future state, in which
all that here appears to be wrong shall be set right,
all that is crooked made straight. In this faith let
you and me, my dear friend, comfort ourselves ; it is
the only comfort, in the present dark scene of things,
that is allowed us.

I shall not fail to write to the government of Amer-
ica, urging that effectual care may be taken to pro-
tect and save the remainder of those unhappy people.

Since writing the above, I have received a Phila-
delphia paper, containing some account of the same
horrid transaction, a little different, and some cir-
cumstances alleged as excuses or palliations, but
extremely weak and insufficient. I send it to you
enclosed. With great and sincere esteem, I am ever,
my dear friend, yours most affectionately,

B. Franklin.

MLXXXVIII

TO THE MARQUIS DE LAFAYETTE *

Passy, 9 July, 1782.

Dear Sir: — Mr. Grenville has been with me in
his return from Versailles. He tells me that Lord
Rockingham being dead. Lord Shelbume is ap-
pointed First Lord of the Treasury, and that Mr.

^ This is in reply to a note of the same date from Lafayette, informing
Franklin of Grenville 's arrival and departure for Versailles, and pre-
suming Franklin would see him on his return, asking to be apprised of
its restilts.

380 The Works of [1782

Fox has resigned; so that both the secretaryships
are vacant; that his communication to Count de
Vergennes was only, that no change was thereby
made in the dispositions of that court for peace, etc.,
and he expects another courier with fuller instruc-
tions in a few days. As soon as I hear more I shall
acquaint you with it. I am ever, with great respect
and affection, your most obedient and humble
servant, B. Franklin.

MLXXXIX

TO DAVID HARTLEY

Passy, 10 July, 1782.

Dear Sir: — I received your favor of the 26th past
by Mr. Young, and am indebted to you for some pre-
ceding. I do not know why the good work of peace
goes on so slowly on your side. Some have imagined
that your ministers, since Rodney's success, are de-
sirous of trying fortune a little further before they
conclude the war; others, that they have not a good
understanding with each other. What I have just
heard seems to countenance this opinion. It is said
Mr. Fox has resigned. We are ready here, on the
part of America, to enter into treaty with you in
concurrence with our allies, and are disposed to be
very reasonable ; but, if your plenipotenitary, notwith-
standing that character, is upon every proposition
obliged to send a courier and wait an answer, we
shall not soon see the happy conclusion. It has
been suspected, too, that you wait to hear the effect

1782] Benjamin Franklin 381

of some overtures sent by General Carleton for a
separate peace with America. A vessel just ar-
rived from Maryland brings us the unanimous reso-
lutions of their Assembly, for continuing the war at
all hazards, rather than violate their faith with
France. This is a sample of the success to be ex-
pected from such a measure, if it has really been
taken, which I hardly believe.

There is methinks a point that has been too little
considered in treaties — the means of making them
durable. An honest peasant, from the mountains
of Provence, brought me the other day a manuscript
he had written on the subject, and which he could
not procure permission to print. It appeared to
me to have much good sense in it; and therefore I
got some copies to be struck off for him to distribute
where he may think fit. I send you one enclosed.
This man aims at no profit from his pamphlet or
his project, asks for nothing, expects nothing, and
does not even desire to be known. He has acquired,
he tells me, a fortune of near one hundred and fifty
crowns a year (about eighteen pounds sterling),
with which he is content. This you may imagine
would not afford the expense of riding to Paris, so
he came on foot; such was his zeal for peace, and the
hope of forwarding and securing it, by communicat-
ing his ideas to great men here. His rustic and poor
appearance has prevented his access to them, or his
obtaining their attention; but he does not seem yet
to be discouraged. I honor much the character of
this veritable philosophe.

I thank you much for your letters of May the ist,

382 The Works of [1782

13th, and 25th, with your proposed preliminaries. It
is a pleasure to me to find our sentiments so concur-
ring on points of importance ; it makes discussions
as unnecessary as they might between us be incon-
venient. I am, my dear sir, with great esteem and
affection yours ever, B.Franklin.

MXC

TO BENJAMIN VAUGHAN

Passy, II July, 1782.

Dear Sir: — In mine of yesterday, which went by
Mr. Young, I made no mention of yours of May i ith,
it not being before me. I have just found it.

You speak of a "proposed dependent State of
America, which you thought Mr. Oswald would be-
gin with." As yet, I have heard nothing of it. I
have all along understood (perhaps I have under-
stood more than was intended), that the point of
dependence was given up, and that we are to be
treated with as a free people. I am not sure that Mr.
Oswald has explicit!}^ said so, but I know that
Mr. Grenville has, and that he was to make that
declaration previous to the commencement of the
treaty. It is now intimated to me from several
quarters, that Lord Shelburne's plan is to retain the
sovereignty for the king, giving us otherwise an in-
dependent Parliament, and a government similar
to that of late intended for Ireland. If this be really
his project, our negotiation for peace will not go

1782] Benjamin Franklin 383

very far. The thing is impracticable and impos-
sible, being inconsistent with the faith we have
pledged, to say nothing of the general disposition of
our people. Upon the whole, I should believe that,
though Lord Shelbume might formerly have enter-
tained such an idea, he had probably dropped it be-
fore he sent Mr. Oswald here; your words above
cited do however, throw a little doubt in my mind
and have, with the intimations of others, made me
less free in communication with his Lordship, whom
I much esteem and honor, than I should otherwise
have been. I wish therefore, you would afford me
what you can of eclaircissement.^

^ From Richard Oswald to the Earl of Shelbume. — "I plainly see the
Doctor inclines that their business should be done iinder a separate
commission. As to any information I can give in relation to these
afifairs, which your Lordship recommends to me, I beg leave to say, that,
although I had better opportunities of conversation than I have,
there is very little to be got here. I will, however, not scruple to give
my opinion as things occur to me, namely, that the more anxious we
appear for peace, the more backward the people here will be, or the
harder in their terms, which is much the same thing; and that, having
fully satisfied this court of our desire to put an end to the war, as has
been done, the more vigorously owe exertions are pushed in the interim,
we shall come sooner to oivc purpose, and on better terms.

"With respect to the commissioners of the colonies, our conduct to-
wards them, I think, ought to be of a style somewhat different. They
have shown a desire to treat, and to end with us on a separate footing
from the other powers; and, I must say, in a more liberal way, or at
least with a greater appearance of feeling for the future interests and
connections of Great Britain, than I expected. I speak so from the
text of the last conversation I had with Dr. Franklin, as mentioned in
my letter of yesterday. And therefore we ought to deal with them
tenderly, and as supposed conciliated friends, or at least well disposed
to a conciliation, and not as if we had any thing to give them, that we
keep from them, or that they are very anxious to have. Even Dr.
Franklin himself, as the subject happened to lead that way, as good as
told me yesterday, that they were their own masters, and seemed to
make no account of the grant of independence as a favor. I was so

384 The Works of [1782

This letter, going by a courier, will probably get to
hand long before the one preceding in date, which
went by Mr. Young, who travels on foot. I there-
fore enclose the copy of it, which was taken in the
press. You may return it to me when the other
arrives.

By the return of the courier, you may oblige me
by communicating what is fairly communicable of
the history of Mr. Fox's and Lord J. Cavendish's
resignation, with any other changes made or likely

much satisfied beforehand of their ideas on that head, that I will own to
your Lordship I did not read to the Doctor that part of your letter
wherein you mentioned that grant as if, in some shape, it challenged a
return on their part. When the Doctor pointed at the object of the
Enabling Bill, as singly resting on a dispensation of acts of Parliament
they cared not for, I thought it enough for me to say they had been
binding and acknowledged; to which no answer was made. When the
Doctor mentioned the report as if there was an expectation of retaining
the sovereignty, I ventured a little further, though with a guarded
caution, to touch him on the only tender side of their supposed present
emancipation, and said that such a report was possibly owing to the
imagination of people, upon hearing of the rejoicing in America, on the
cessation of war, change of rainistry, etc., which they might conclude
woiild have some effect in dividing the provinces, and giving a different
turn to affairs ; as no doubt there was a great proportion of these people,
notwithstanding all that had happened, who, from considerations of
original afhnity, correspondence, and other circumstances, were still
strongly attached to England. To this also there was no answer made.

"At the same time I cannot but say that I was much pleased upon
the whole with what had passed on the occasion of this interview.
And I really believe the Doctor sincerely wishes for a speedy settlement,
and that, after the loss of dependence, we may lose no more ; but, on
the contrary, that a cordial reconciliation may take place over all that
country.

"Amongst other things I was pleased at his showing me a state of
the aids they had received from France, as it looked as if he wanted I
should see the amount of their obligations to their ally; and as if it was
the only foundation of the ties France had over them, excepting grati-
tude, which the Doctor owned in so many words. But at the same
time he said the debt would be punctually and easily discharged;

1782] Benjamin Franklin 385

to be made. With sincere esteem I am ever, my
dear friend, yotirs most affectionately,

B. Franklin.

MXCI

TO RICHARD OSWALD

Passy, 12 July, 1782.

Sir: — I enclose a letter for Lord Shelbume, to go
by your courier, with some others, of which I request
his care. They may be put into the penny post. I
have received a note informing me that "some

France having given to 1788 to pay it. The Doctor also particularly
took notice of the discharge of the interest to the term of the peace,
which he said was kind and generous. It is possible I may make a
wrong estimate of the situation of the American business, and of the
chance of a total or partial recovery being desperate. In that case my
opinion will have no weight, and so will do no hurt; yet in my present
sentiments I cannot help ofifering it, as thinking that circumstances are
in that situation that I heartily wish we were done with these people,
and as quickly as possible, since we have much to fear from them, in
case of their taking the pet, and throwing themselves into more close
connections with this court and our other enemies.

"Since writing the above, I am told by a friend who had some con-
versation with Dr. Franklin this morning, that he (the Doctor) had
received a letter from some person in England who is no friend to the
late changes, giving among other things an accoimt as if the new ad-
ministration were not so well disposed to end so quickly and agreeably
with the colonies, as those who have left it. This, the gentleman told
me, led the Doctor to express himself very strongly as to his desire of
quick despatch, as he wanted much to go home, and have the chance of
a few years' repose, having but a short time to live in the world, and had
also much private business to do.

"I should therefore hope it may be possible soon to bring their busi-
ness near to a final close, and that they will not be any way stiff as to
those articles he called advisable; or will drop them altogether. Those
he called necessary will hardly be any obstacle. I shall be able to make
a better guess when I have another meeting with him jointly with Mr.
Jay, which I hope to have by the time this courier returns." — Paris,
July nth. MS. Letter.

VOL. IX. 25.

386 The Works of [1782

opposition given by his Lordship to Mr. Fox's decided
plan of unequivocally acknowledging America's inde-
pendence was one cause of that gentleman's resigna-
tion"; this, from what you have told me, appears
improbable. It is further said that "Mr. Grenville
thinks Mr. Fox's resignation will be fatal to the pres-
ent negotiation." This, perhaps, is as groimdless as
the former. Mr. Grenville's next courier will prob-
ably clear up matters. I did understand from him
that such an acknowledgment was intended previous
to the commencement of the treaty ; until it is made,
and the treaty formally begun, propositions and dis-
cussions seem, in consideration, to be untimely ; nor
can I enter into particulars without Mr. Jay, who is
now ill with the influenza. My letter, therefore, to
his Lordship is merely complimentary on his late
appointment. I wish a continuance of your health
in that at present sickly city, being with sincere
esteem, sir, your most obedient and most humble
servant, B. Franklin.

P. S. — I send you enclosed the late resolutions of
the State of Maryland, by which the general disposi-
tion of people in America may be guessed respecting
any treaty to be proposed by General Carleton, if
intended, which I do not believe.

MXCII

TO THE EARL OF SHELBURNE

Passy, 12 July, 1782.

My Lord: — Mr. Oswald informing me that he is
about to despatch a courier, I embrace the oppor-

1782] Benjamin Franklin 387

tunity of congratulating your Lordship on your ap-
pointment to the Treasury. It is an extension of
your power to do good, and in that view, if in no
other, it must increase your happiness, which I
heartily wish. Being with great and sincere re-
spect, my Lord, your Lordship's, etc.,

B. Franklin.^

^ Lord Shelbume wrote in reply to this note of congratulation :

"You do me the most acceptable justice in supposing my happiness
intimately connected with that of mankind, and I can with truth assure
you it will give me great satisfaction, in every situation, to merit the
continuance of your good opinion."

Mr. Oswald wrote to the Earl of Shelbume on the same day Frank-
lin's note was written, as follows:

"The courier has been in waiting some time for Dr. Franklin's letters.
They are just come to hand, with one to myself, which I think proper to
send to your Lordship, with the Maryland paper that was enclosed in
it. I am glad to see by the Doctor's letter, as if he wishes a settlement
with them may not be stopped, and think that may be presumed from
his sending me this letter and the explanations therein mentioned.

"On the other hand, I cannot but be concerned at this report which
has been conveyed to him, of a reserve intended in the grant of
independence, being the first time I ever heard of it. At least Mr.
Grenville did not tell me that his signification on that head was accom-
panied with any such reservation. And upon the faith of that I have
in my letters to your Lordship and in conversation with Dr. Franklin
always supposed that the grant was meant to be absolute and uncon-
ditional, which last, however, is a term I never used, thinking such
qualification unnecessary. Its being given out that a difference sub-
sisted and resignations happened on this account, must naturally oc-
casion this hesitation in the commissioners of the colonies; and so I
see by the Doctor's letter to me, he puts a sort of stoppage upon the
preliminaries of settlement with them, which had been pretty well
stretched out and defined in his conversations with me on the loth in-
stant. And until there is a further explanation under your Lordship's
authority on the said head of independence, I am in a manner forbid, in
the Doctor's letter, to go back upon the plan of that conference and to
claim any right to the propositions thereof. Which, if complete inde-
pendence was meant to be granted, is a little unlucky; and there is
reason to regret that anybody should have been so wicked as to throw
this sttmibHng-block in the way, by which not only peace with the

388 The Works of [1782

MXCIII

TO COUNT DE VERGENNES

Passy, 18 July, 1782.

Sir: — I received the letter your Excellency did me
the honor of writing to me this day, enclosing a
memorial which relates to the interests of some sub-
jects of the emperor, residing at Ostend, who allege
that a ship of theirs has been taken by an American
privateer, and carried into Boston, on pretence that

colonies is obstructed, but the general treaty is suspended, which I
cannot help still thinking hangs upon a settlement with the colonies,
and so, by this unlucky interjection, the peace of the country at home
is disturbed and the blame is thrown upon the new administration and
upon your Lordship by name." — Paris, July 12th. MS. Letter.

From the Earl of Shelburne to Richard Oswald. — "The king has given
Mr. Grenville leave to return, and directed him to acquaint the French
minister and Dr. Franklin that it is for the pxu-pose of receiving fresh
instructions, which will be necessary on the change of the department,
taking care to repeat every assurance of the king's desire for peace,
and not to leave any impression on the minds of those with whom he is in
treaty of the least relaxation from the intention and spirit of the nego-
tiation as hitherto carried on. I have the firmest reliance on Mr. Gren-
ville's honor, that he will take care that the king's service shall not
suffer in any respect by his departure. And I must strictly enjoin you
not to mention to any person whatever this communication, till Mr.
Grenville himself communicates his intentions and instructions and in
his own manner." — Whitehall, July i^th. MS. Letter.

From Thomas Townshend to Richard Oswald. — "Of those with whom
you are to treat I have no knowledge of any except Dr. Franklin. My
knowledge of him is of long standing, though of no great degree of inti-
macy. I am not vain enough to suppose that any public conduct or
principles of mine should have attracted much of his notice. But I
believe he knows enough of them to be persuaded that no one has been
more averse to the carrying on of this unhappy contest, or a more
sincere friend to peace and reconciliation than myself. If he does me
the justice to believe these sentiments to be sincere, he will be con-
vinced that I shall show myself in the transaction of this business an
unequivocal and zealous friend to pacification upon the fairest and
most liberal terms."— Whitehall, July 26th. MS. Letter.

1782] Benjamin Franklin 389

the property was English, etc. I shall immediately
transmit the memorial to Congress, as desired. But
there being courts of admiralty established in each
of the United States, I conceive that the regular
steps to be taken by the complainants would be an
application for justice to those courts by some per-
son on the spot, duly authorized by them as their
agent; and in case the judgment of the court is not
satisfactory, that then they appeal to the Congress,
which cannot well take cognizance of such matters in
the first instance.

The merchants of Ostend may possibly not have as
yet correspondents established in all the States ; but
any merchant of credit in the country would transact
such business on receiving their request, with the
proper power of attorney ; or, if his Imperial Majesty
should think fit to appoint a consul-general to reside
in those States, such an officer might at all times
assist his compatriots with his counsels and protec-
tion, in any affairs that they might have in that
country. I am the more particular in mentioning
this to your Excellency, because I apprehend these
cases may hereafter be frequent; and, if the com-
plaints are to be addressed to you and me, we are
likely to have a great deal of trouble, as I am in-
formed that it has become a daily practice for out-
ward-bound English ships to put into Ostend, and
make a formal pretended sale of ship and cargo to a
merchant of the place, who furnishes Imperial papers
for the voyage under his own name, and receives a
certain sum per cent, for the operation.

This is said to be a branch of great profit to the

390 The Works of [1782

Flemish merchants, and that a very great number of
Enghsh ships are now at sea with such papers ; and
I suspect, even from their own manner of stating the
transaction, that the ship and cargo reclaimed by the
complainants are of that kind. This seems to me an
abuse of the neutrality ; as these fictitious profits are
added to the advantage of real carriage for the bel-
ligerent nations, they make it too much the interest
of neutral neighbors to foment wars and obstruct
peace, that such profits may continue. And if it is
to be understood as a settled point that such papers
are to protect English property, the fitters-out of
privateers from France, Spain, Holland, and America,
will in another year be all ruined, for they will find
none but Flemish ships upon the ocean. With the
greatest respect, etc.,

B. Franklin.

MXCIV

TO THE COUNT DE VERGENNES

Passy, 24 July, 1782.

Sir: — Enclosed I have the honor of sending to
your Excellency extracts from two despatches of the
British ministry (one of them to the commissioners
for restoring peace in America) , which are communi-
cated to me by order of Lord Shelbume, expressly
for the purpose of restoring confidence between him
and me. Your Excellency will judge how proper
they are for such a purpose, when the first is evi-
dently calculated to create division, not only be-
tween France and us, but among ourselves ; and the

1782] Benjamin Franklin 39^

second is contradictory respecting a principal point

— the independence. I am, with great respect, sir,

your Excellency's most obedient and most humble

servant,

B. Franklin.

MXCV

TO THE MARQUIS DE LAFAYETTE

Passy, 24 July, 1782.

Dear Sir: — In answer to your questions, Mr.
Oswald is doing nothing, having neither powers nor
instructions; and, being tired of doing nothing, has
despatched a courier requesting leave to return. He
has, I believe, received no letters, since I saw you,
from Lord Shelbume. Mr. Grenville's return hither
is, I think, doubtful, as he was particularly connected
in friendship with Mr. Fox, but if he stays, I suppose
some other will be sent, for I do not yet see sufficient
reason to think they would abandon the negotiation,
though, from some appearances, I imagine they are
more intent upon dividing us than upon making a
general peace. I have heard nothing further from
Mr. Laurens, nor received any paper from him re-
specting Lord Comwallis. And since that General's
letter, written after the battle of Camden, and order-
ing not only the confiscation of rebels' estates, but
the hanging of prisoners, has been made public, I
should not wonder if the Congress were to disallow
our absolution of his parole, and recall him to
America. With everlasting esteem and respect, I
am, dear sir, yours most affectionately,

B. Franklin.

392 The Works of [1782

MXCVI

FROM COUNT DE VERGENNES

Versailles, 28 July, 1782.

Sir: — I have received the letter which you did me
the honor to write on the 24th instant, and the two
papers sent at the same time. The contradictions
which these contain are worthy of remark. Not
only they destroy each the effect of the other, but
they are both in manifest opposition to the minis-
terial declarations made by Mr. Grenville.

It appears that Lord Shelbume has more in view
to produce a division between the king and the
United States than to promote a just and durable
peace; but we must believe that he cannot long
avoid being convinced that his plan is essentially a
mistaken one, and that there is no time to be lost in
changing it, if peace is the object for which he is
solicitous.

As to the king, sir, good faith and the fidelity
which he owes to his allies will be the invariable
guide of his conduct, for justice and moderation will
ever lie at the foundation of the system of pacific
measures adopted by his Majesty. If the English
ministers are disposed to act in obedience to these
principles, they can easily succeed in restoring peace
upon reasonable conditions; but if they continue
constantly changing their views and measures, if
they desire intrigue rather than serious negotiation,
they run the risk of committing themselves gratuit-
ously, and of voluntarily prolonging the calamities
of war.

1782] Benjamin Franklin 393

It is to Lord Shelbume, however, who now has
the direction of affairs in England, that it properly
belongs to make these reflections. We can only hope
that they may not escape his sagacity, and wait
until that minister informs us in what manner he
intends to pursue the negotiation begun with Mr.
Grenville, or to follow up the answer lately given by
the English ministry to the courts of Vienna and St.
Petersburg. I have the honor to be, with great sin-
cerity, sir, etc.,

De Vergennes.

MXCVII

TO RICHARD OSWALD

Passy, 28 July, 1782.

Sir : — I have but this moment had an opportunity,
by the departure of my company, of perusing the
letters you put into my hands this afternoon; and
I return them directly, without waiting till our inter-
view to-morrow morning, because I would not give
a moment's delay to the deHvery of those directed
to other persons.

The situation of Captain Asgill and his family af-
flicts me, but I do not see what can be done by any
one here to reHeve them. It cannot be supposed
that General Washington has the least desire of tak-
ing the life of that gentleman. His aim is to obtain
the punishment of a deliberate murder, committed on
a prisoner in cold blood, by Captain Lippencot. If
the English refuse to deliver up or punish this mur-
derer, it is saying that they choose to preserve him

394 The Works of [1782

rather than Captain Asgill. It seems to me, there-
fore, that the appHcation should be made to the Eng-
lish ministers for positive orders, directing General
Carle ton to deliver up Lippencot; which orders, be-
ing obtained, should be despatched immediately by a
swift-sailing vessel. I do not think any other means
can produce the effect desired. The cruel murders of
this kind committed by the English on oirr people,
since the commencement of the war, are innimierable.
The Congress and their generals, to satisfy the peo-
ple, have often threatened retaliation, but have al-
ways hitherto forborne to execute it ; and they have
been often insultingly told by their enemies that this
forbearance did not proceed from himianity, but fear.
General Greene, though he solemnly and publicly
promised it in a proclamation, never made any re-
taliation for the murder of Colonel Haynes, and many
others in Carolina; and the people, who now think,
if he had fulfilled his promise, this crime would not
have been committed, clamor so loudly, that I doubt
General Washington cannot well refuse what appears
to them so just and necessary for their common
security. I am persuaded that nothing I could say
to him on the occasion would have the least effect in
changing his determination.'

Excuse me, then, if I presume to advise the de-
spatching a courier immediately to London, propos-
ing to the consideration of ministers the sending such
orders to General Carleton directly. They would

^ For the particulars relating to the case of Captain Asgill, see
Washington's Writings Vol. I., p. 378; Vol. VIIL, pp. 265, 301,
336, 361.

1782] Benjamin Franklin 395

have an excellent effect in other ways. The post
goes to-morrow morning at ten o'clock; but, as nine
days have been spent in bringing the letters here by
that conveyance, an express is preferable. With
sincere esteem, I have the honor to be, etc.,

B. Franklin.

MXCVIII

CERTIFICATE OF CONYNGHAm's COMMISSION

I do hereby certify whom it may concern that the
Commissioners of the United States of America at
the Court of France did issue on the first day of
March, one thousand seven hundred and seventy-
seven, to Captain Gustavus Conyngham, a commis-
sion of Congress appointing him a captain in the
navy of the said States, and to command a vessel
then fitting out at Dunkerque, on their account, to
cruise against their enemies, in which vessel he took
the English packet boat going from Harwick to Hol-
land; but there being no war at that time between
France and England, and the clandestine equipment
of an armed vessel in a French port to cruise against
the English being therefore an unjustifiable proceed-
ing, he was apprehended by order of the French gov-
ernment, and his papers seized, among which was
the said commission, which was never restored and
cannot now be found. It is therefore that at the
request of the said Captain Conyngham, and to as-
certain the fact that such a commission was issued

396 The Works of [1782

to him, I give this certificate at Passy, this 7th day-
August, 1782.

B. Franklin,

Minister Plenipotentiary from the United States
of America at the Court of France.

Endorsement on back in handwriting of Charles
Thompson:

"Read October 11, 1783.

"Referred to Mr. Lee, Mr. WilHamson, Mr. EUery."

MXCIX

TO COUNT DE VERGENNES

Passy, 8 August, 1782.

Sir: — Yesterday Mr. Oswald communicated to
Mr. Jay and me a paper he had just received from
his court, being a copy of the king's order to the at-
torney- or solicitor-general, to prepare a commission
to pass the great seal, appointing him to treat with
us; and he showed us a letter from Mr. Secretary
Townshend, which expresses his concern that the
commission itself could not be sent by this courier,
the officers who were to expedite it being in the
country, which would occasion a delay of eight or
ten days ; but that its being then sent might be de-
pended on, and it was hoped the treaty might, in the
meantime, be proceeded on. Mr. Oswald left with me
a copy of the paper, which I enclose for your Excel-
lency's consideration, and am, with great respect,
sir, your Excellency's, etc., B. Franklin.'

^ From Richard Oswald to Thomas Townshend. — "This afternoon I
went to Passy, and carried a copy of the commission to Dr. Franklin.

1782] Benjamin Franklin 397

MC

FROM COUNT DE VERGENNES

Versailles, 8 August, 1782.

Sir: — I have received the letter of this day, with
which you have honored me, and the copy of the

After perusal, he said he was glad it was come; that he had been at
Versailles yesterday, and Count de Vergennes had asked about it; and,
upon the Doctor's telling him it was not come, he said he could do
nothing with Mr. Fitzherbert till it arrived; as both treaties must go
on together hand in hand.

"I showed him Mr. Townshend's letter accotmting for a copy only
being sent, as the chancellor and attorney-general were at a distance in
the country. The Doctor seemed to be satisfied, and said, as on a
former occasion, he hoped we should agree and not be long about it.
There were no particulars touched upon; and, after sitting about a
quarter of an hour, I proposed calling on Mr. Jay, the only other com-
missioner at Paris. The Doctor said it was right, and returned me the
copy of the commission to be left with Mr. Jay, which he would bring
back to the Doctor, as he was to dine at Passy.

"I accordingly returned to Paris, and called on Mr. Jay. He is a
man of good sense, of frank, easy, and polite manners; he read over the
copy of the commission, and Mr. Townshend's letter accounting for its
not being under seal, and then said, by the quotation from the act of
Parliament on the commission, he supposed it was meant that indepen-
dence was to be treated upon, and was to be granted perhaps as the
price of peace ; that it ought to be no part of a treaty ; it ought to have
been expressly granted by an act of Parliament, and an order for all
troops to be withdrawn previous to any proposal for treaty. As that
was not done, the king, he said, ought to do it now by proclamation,
and order all garrisons to be evacuated, and then close the American
war by treaty. He said many things of a retrospective kind; such as
the happy effects a declaration of that nature at earlier periods would
have produced, if Great Britain had nobly and handsomely made this
grant before such deep wounds had been given to that bias and at-
tachment which till then subsisted all over that country in favor of
Great Britain, even in spite of their petitions being repeatedly rejected.
That in such case they would have undoubtedly concerted such plan of
treaty, as would have not only restored peace, but would have laid a
solid bottom of amity and conciliation, and such as would have oblit-
erated from their memory in a short time all remembrance of preceding
acts of distress or violence.

* ' But, by the continued enforcement of the same cruel measiires, the

398 The Works of [1782

power which Mr. Oswald has communicated to you.
The form in which it appears is not that which is
usual on similar occasions, but it has not prevented

minds of the people in general all over that continent were almost
totally alienated from Great Britain, so that they detested the very
name of an Englishman. That it was true, a number of the older
people had not forgot their former connections, and their inclinations
might still lean towards England. But, when they were gone, and the
younger generation come to take their place, who had never felt any of
those impressions, those inclinations wotdd be succeeded by grudge and
resentment of every kind, upon reflecting upon what they had seen
and their parents had suffered; that few of them but could recollect
the loss of blood of some relation or other, devastation of their estates,
and other misfortvmes ; on which occasion he ran into a detail of par-
ticulars, as unnecessary as unpleasant here to be repeated; and which I
would not have touched upon if I did not think a free exposure of the
features of this conversation may help to form a judgment of what may
be expected in the issue, from the determination of this commissioner,
and consequently what concessions on this very critical occasion it may
be safe and proper to propose or insist upon.

"As information respecting the real sentiments of those gentlemen
was the object I principally aimed at in the commencement of this
business, I allowed Mr. Jay to go on without interruption, remarking
only upon the whole, that, supposing there had been capital mistakes
in the direction as well as in the execution of our measures, it would be
hard to bring the charge home to the nation in general ; and there was
a good deal to be said even in excuse of the ministers, who presided
over the conduct of those measures, considering that they were not
personally acquainted with the circimistances of that country, and
therefore could not but naturally listen to the information they received
from those who were so acquainted ; who came over from America as
refugees, and who had upon all occasions insisted that we had so great
a proportion of friends in all the colonies, as to reqmre only a tempor-
ary support from government to bring every thing back to the original
state of peace and subordination; that it was the search after those
friends of government, which, in consequence of personal interference
and correspondence in writing, has kept up and encouraged a con-
tinuance of the measures of coercion complained of, until they brought
on at last the present unfortunate crisis.

"Mr. Jay admitted that some blame was justly to be imputed to the
misrepresentation of the refugees, and other correspondents above
mentioned, who, he said, at least many of them, were in a particular

1782] Benjamin Franklin 399

me from forming my opinion in the first instance. I
have bestowed the greatest attention on it, and, if
you will be so good as to favor me with a visit on

manner concerned, on account of their private interests, to have things
brought back by any means to their original state.

"He returned to the subject of independence, as not being satisfied
with its being left as a matter of treaty. I said the method proposed
was much the same as what he meant, and perhaps such as the nature
of the British constitution made necessary. Independence of Great
Britain, in the most complete sense, would be granted without any
reserve, always supposing that their States should be equally in-
dependent of other nations. And so the treaty might proceed, in the
course which was thus marked out for it, until it ended in peace. He
said peace was very desirable, and the sooner the better. But the
great point was to make such a peace as should be lasting. This
brought back my attention to the same expression in Count de Ver-
gennes' discourse in April, when I first had the honor to wait on him,
and the more so that, almost in every conversation I have had with Dr.
Franklin, he has made use of the same words, and delivered as in the
way of aphorism, and as an indispensable principle, in the foundation
of a final settlement with them and France.

"I never at these times chose to ask for an explanation, having no
right to do so. I thought it was then too early to venture on such
delicate ground, and so I remained at a loss as to the intended meaning
of the words, although I strongly suspected the expression pointed at
some unpleasant or unfavorable limitation on the conduct of Great
Britain. But now, being in a somewhat different situation, and having
so fair an opportunity, which I wished not to miss, in order to guess at
the meaning of this phrase, I replied that such long intermission of
war was certainly very desirable. But what security could there be
given for a continuance of peace, but such as generally put an end to all
wars, being that of treaty; but which was often found to be a very
inadequate security, as was the case of the last treaty, concluded at
this place only twenty years ago.

"To this Mr. Jay replied he would not give a farthing for any parch-
ment security whatever. They had never signified any thing since the
world began, when any prince or state, of either side, fovmd it con-
venient to break through them. But the peace he meant was such, or
so to be settled, that it should not be the interest of either party to
violate it. This, he said, was the only security that could be proposed
to prevent those frequent returns of war, by which the world was
kept in continual disturbance." — Paris, August ^th. MS. Letter.
The Works of [1782

Saturday morning, I shall confer with you and Mr.
Jay, if it will be convenient for him to accompany
you. I have the honor to be, most sincerely, sir,
etc., De Vergennes.

MCI

FROM ROBERT R. LIVINGSTON

Philadelphia, 9 August, 1782.

Dear Sir:— Having written to Mr. Jay, who, I
presimie, is with you, I do not think it necessary to
repeat what I have mentioned to him. We have
not heard from you since March; a very long period,
considering the interesting events that have taken
place between that time and this. Many vessels
have arrived without bringing us a line from you.
I am apprehensive that Mr. Barclay does not
communicate to you the frequent opportunities
that offer of writing. I shall write to him upon
the subject.

Sir Guy Carleton and Admiral Digby have in-
formed the general that a negotiation for a general
peace is now on foot, and that the king, his master,
has agreed to yield the independence of America
without making it conditional. I shall enclose a
copy of his letter at large, which refers to another
object— the exchange of prisoners. This great point
once yielded, I see nothing that will obstruct your
negotiations, except three points of discussion, which
I have before written to you about. I wish it had
been possible to obtain the estimates I mention, as

1782] Benjamin Franklin 401

they might have been rendered useftil to you upon
one of them. But the neghgence of the governors
or legislatures of the several States has rendered all
my endeavors hitherto unsuccessful, notwithstanding
repeated promises to give this subject their earliest
attention. The restoration of confiscated property
has become utterly impossible, and the attempt
would throw the country into the utmost confusion.

The fisheries are too important an object for you
to lose sight of; and, as to the back lands, I do not
conceive that England can seriously expect to derive
any benefit from them that will be equivalent to the
jealousy that the possession of them would awaken
and keep alive between her and this country. I
transmit to you a bill for seventy-one thousand
three hundred and eighty livres, being the amount
of one quarter's salary to yourself and Messrs. Jay,
Adams, Carmichael, Dana, and Dumas. No pro-
vision is made for the private secretaries or contin-
gencies, not having been furnished with an account
of them. I also send bills for the first quarter,
commencing in January, so that you will, on the
receipt of this, be enabled to pay one half year's sal-
ary to our ministers and their secretaries.

I just now learn that Carleton has published his
and Digby's letter to the General. The design of
this must either be to see whether the people of this
country will catch so eagerly at the proposition for
a peace which yields them their independence, as to
be careless about the alliance, or to impress us with
an idea that we are more indebted for our free-
dom to the generosity of Great Britain than to the
The Works of [1782

attention of France to our interests in the general
treaty. It is not to be doubted that the good sense
and the gratitude of this country will defeat both
these objects. I have the honor to be, etc.,

Robert R. Livingston.

P. S. — If Mr. Jay should not be at Paris, I must
beg you to open and decipher for him the letter of
this month, and the resolution contained therein,
marked on the back below the seal, August, and send
it to him by the earliest opportunity.

MCII

TO ROBERT R. LIVINGSTON

Passy, 12 August, 1782.

Sir: — I have lately been honored with your several
letters of March 9th and May 2 2d and 30th. The
paper containing a state of the commerce in North
America, and explaining the necessity and utility
of convoys for its protection, I have laid before the
minister, accompanied by a letter pressing that it be
taken into immediate consideration; and I hope it
may be attended with success.

The order of Congress for liquidating the accounts
between this court and the United States, was ex-
ecuted before it arrived. All the accounts against us
for money lent, and stores, arms, ammunition, cloth-
ing, etc., furnished by government, were brought in
and examined, and a balance received, which made
the debt amount to the even sum of eighteen millions,

1782] Benjamin Franklin 403

exclusive of the Holland loan, for which the king is
guaranty. I send a copy of the instrument to Mr.
Morris. In reading it you will discover several fresh
marks of the king's goodness towards us, amounting
to the value of near two millions. These, added to
the free gifts before made to us at different times,
form an object of at least twelve millions, for which
no returns but that of gratitude and friendship are
expected. These, I hope, may be everlasting. The
constant good understanding between France and
the Swiss Cantons, and the steady benevolence of
this crown towards them, afford us a well-grounded
hope that our alliance may be as durable and as
happy for both nations; there being strong reasons
for our union, and no crossing interests between us.
I write fully to Mr. Morris on money affairs, who will
doubtless communicate to you my letter, so that I
need say the less to you on that subject.

The letter to the king was well received; the ac-
counts of your rejoicings on the news of the Dauphin's
birth gave pleasure here ; as do the firm conduct of
Congress in refusing to treat with General Carleton,
and the unanimous resolutions of the Assemblies of
different States on the same subject. All ranks of
this nation appear to be in good humor with us, and
our reputation rises throughout Europe. I under-
stand from the Swedish ambassador, that their treaty
with us will go on as soon as ours with Holland is
finished ; our treaty with France with such improve-
ments as that with Holland may suggest, being in-
tended as the basis.

There have been various misunderstandings and

404 The Works of [1782

mismanagements among the parties concerned in
the expedition of the Bon Homme Richard, which
have occasioned delay in dividing the prize money.
M. de Chaumont, who was chosen by the captains
of all the vessels in the expedition as their agent, has
long been in a state little short of bankruptcy, and
some of the delays have possibly been occasioned
by the distress of his affairs. He now informs me
that the money is in the hands of the Minister of
the Marine. I shall in a few days present the me-
morial you propose, with one relating to the prison-
ers, and will acquaint you with the answer. Mr.
Barclay is still in Holland ; when he returns he may
take into his hands what money can be obtained on
that account.

I think your observations respecting the Danish
complaints through the minister of France perfectly
just. I will receive no more of them by that chan-
nel, and will give your reasons to justify my refusal.

Your approbation of my idea of a medal, to per-
petuate the memory of York and Saratoga victories,
gives me great pleasure, and encourages me to have
it struck. I wish you would acquaint me with what
kind of a monimient at York the emblems required
are to be fixed on — whether an obelisk or a column;
its dimensions ; whether any part of it is to be mar-
ble, and the emblems carved on it ; and whether the
work is to be executed by the excellent artists in that
way which Paris affords ; and, if so, to what expense
they are to be limited. This puts me in mind of a
monument I got made here and sent to America, by
order of Congress, five years since. I have heard of

1782] Benjamin Franklin 405

its arrival, and nothing more. It was admired here
for its elegant antique simplicity of design, and the
various beautiful marbles used in its composition. It
was intended to be fixed against a wall in the State-
house of Philadelphia. I know not why it has been
so long neglected; it would, methinks, be well to in-
quire after it, and get it put up somewhere. Direc-
tions for fixing it were sent with it. I enclose a print
of it. The inscription in the engraving is not on the
monument ; it was merely the fancy of the engraver.
There is a white plate of marble left smooth to receive
such inscription as the Congress should think proper.^

Our countrymen, who have been prisoners in Eng-
land, are sent home, a few excepted, who were sick,
and who will be forwarded as soon as recovered.
This eases us of a very considerable charge.

I communicated to the Marquis de Lafayette the
paragraph of your letter which related to him. He is
still here, and, as there seems not so much likelihood
of an active campaign in America, he is probably
more useful where he is. His departure, however,
though delayed, is not absolutely laid aside.

The second changes in the ministry of England
have occasioned, or have afforded, pretences for vari-
ous delays in the negotiation for peace. Mr. Gren-
ville had two successive imperfect commissions. He
was at length recalled, and Mr. Fitzherbert is now

^ This was probably the monument ordered by Congress to be
erected to the memory of General Montgomery. Dr. Franklin was
directed to procure it in Paris, at an expense not exceeding three
hundred pounds sterling. See Journals of Congress, January 25, 1776.
The monument was placed in the portico of St. Paul's Church, in the
city of New York.

4o6 The Works of [1782

arrived to replace him, with a commission in due
form to treat with France, Spain, and Holland. Mr.
Oswald, who is here, is informed by a letter from
the new Secretary of State that a commission em-
powering him to treat with the commissioners of
Congress will pass the seals, and be sent him in a
few days ; till he arrives, this court will not proceed
in its own negotiation.^ I send the Enabling Act,

^ From Richard Oswald to Thomas Townshend. — " Finding no altera-
tion in the Doctor's manner from the usual good-natured and friendly-
way in which he had formerly behaved to me (as I had reason to ap-
prehend, from what had lately passed with his colleague), and having
a quiet and convenient opportunity, I was anxious to learn whether
the Doctor entertained those ideas, which in the preceding papers I
suspected Mr. Jay had in view, regarding the means of preventing
future wars, by settling the peace in such a manner as it should not be
the interest of the parties to break it.

' ' With that intent, I told the Doctor I had had a long conversation
with Mr. Jay, of which, no doubt, he had been informed; and in which
he had not spared us in his reflections on what had passed in the Ameri-
can war; and that I could not but be sony he had just reason for the
severity of some of them; at the same time I was pleased to find he
was equally well disposed to peace, and to bring it qviickly to a con-
clusion, as we were, and also that it should be a lasting one, as he (the
Doctor) had always proposed ; and that I was only at a loss as to how
that could be ascertained, otherwise than by treaty, which Mr. Jay
declared he paid no regard to ; and said it could be only depended upon
as lasting by its being settled, so as it should not be the interest of any
of the parties to break it. I told the Doctor this was certainly the best
security, if one could tell how to accommodate the terms so justly to
the mutual interests of the parties, as to obviate every temptation to
encroachment or trespass.

"The Doctor replied that the method was very plain and easy;
which was to settle the terms in the first projection on an equal, just,
and reasonable footing; and so as neither party should have cause to
complain, being the plan which Count de Vergennes had in view, and
had always recommended in his conversations with him on the subject
of peace. And the Doctor said it was a good plan, and the only one
that could make the peace lasting. And which also put him in mind
of a story in the Roman history, in the early time of the republic ; when

1782] Benjamin Franklin 407

as it is called. Mr. Jay will acquaint you with what
passes between him and the Spanish ambassador,
respecting the proposed treaty with Spain. I will

being at war with the state of Tarenttim, and the Tarentines having
the worst of it, they sent to the Senate to ask for peace. The ambas-
sador being called in, the Senate told him they agreed to give them
peace, and then asked how long he thought it would last; to which he
answered: 'That would be according to the conditions; if they were
reasonable, the peace would be lasting; if not, it would be short.' The
Senate seemed to resent this freedom of expression ; but a member got
up and applauded it, as fair and manly, and as justly challenging a due
regard to moderation on their part.

"It is not easy to say how happy I felt myself at the conclusion
of this quotation. The terms and conditions, it is true, remained
undecided; and they no doubt comprehend a very serious question,
although not material to what I aimed at. Nor did I conceive them
to lie so much in my way, as in that of another department, by the
concern which the French minister took in settling the principle. Nor
did I trouble myself about the possible inefiicacy of it, as still depend-
ing in some degree on the obligations of treaty, however cautiously
adjusted. And therefore I did not think it proper to touch upon that
point, nor to say any thing on the subject of terms and conditions.

' ' The second thing the Doctor touched upon was independence. He
said by the quotations of acts of Parliament, he saw it was included in
the commission ; but that Mr. Grenville had orders to grant it in the
first instance. I replied it was true ; and that, though supposed to be
granted tmder this commission, and in the course of the treaty, I
hoped it would make no difference with gentlemen who were so well
disposed to put an end to this unhappy business, as I knew him to be.
He then asked if I had instructions. I said I had, and that they were
under his Majesty's hand and seal; and that by them it appeared
independence, unconditional in every sense, would be granted, and
that I saw no reason why it should not make the first article of the
settlement or treaty. That I was sorry Mr. Jay should have hesitated
so much on that head, as if it ought to have been done separately, and
by act of Parliament; and now. Parliament being up, that the grant
should be made by proclamation. That I did not pretend to judge
whether the right and authority of a grant of that kind, so conveyed,
would be proper and effectual. There seemed, however, to be one in-
convenience in it, that a proclamation became an address to the Con-
gress, and to every part of their provinces jointly and separately; and
might, so far, interfere with the progress of the present commission.

4o8 The Works of [1782

only mention that my conjecture of that court's
design to coop us up within the Alleghany Moun-
tains is now manifested. I hope Congress will in-
sist on the Mississippi as the botmdary, and the free

under which we hoped that all pretensions would be properly and
expeditiously settled. That in this matter he was a better judge than
I could pretend to be. I was only sure of one thing, that the affair
might be as effectually done as in the way proposed by Mr. Jay.

"The Doctor replied that Mr. Jay was a lawyer, and might think of
things that did not occur to those who were not lawyers. And he at
last spoke as if he did not see much or any difference; but still used
such a mode of expression, as I could not positively say would pre-
clude him from insisting on Mr. Jay's proposition, or some previous or
separate acknowledgment. I was glad to get clear of the subject,
without pushing for fiurther explanation or discussion.

"The Doctor at last touched upon Canada, as he generally does upon
the like occasions, and said there could be no dependence on peace and
good neighborhood while that coimtry continued under a different
government, as it touched their states in so great a stretch of frontier.
I told him I was sensible of that inconvenience; but, having no orders,
the consideration of that matter might possibly be taken up at some
future time. At my coming away, the Doctor said that, although the
proper commission was not come over, yet, he said, Mr. Jay would call
on me with a copy of their credentials. This being Sunday, he said the
copy would be made out on Monday. On Tuesday he must go to
Versailles, being the levee day; but on Wednesday they would call
with their papers," — Paris, August i^th. MS.

In another despatch, written two days later, Mr. Oswald gave a
further account of his conversations as follows :

"At proper times I said what occurred to me as necessary to bring
this question to some sort of desirable period; and in particular
wished to have Mr. Jay's idea of such way of declaring this unconnected
ascertainment of independence, as would satisfy them.

"His former proposal of doing it by proclamation, he gave up, as
liable to sundry objections, needless to be here repeated. He then
proposed it should be done by a particular and separate deed, or
patent, under the great seal, in which my commission for a treaty
might also be narrated; and that such patent should be put into the
possession of the commissioners, to be by them sent over to Congress;
and accordingly Mr. Jay brought me a draft of the patent. As I could
see no other way of satisfying those gentlemen, and it appearing highly

1782] Benjamin Franklin 409

navigation of the river, from which they could
entirely exclude us.

An account of a terrible massacre of the Moravian
Indians has been put into my hands. I send you

necessary that some beginning shotild be made with them, since, tmtil
that was done, the foreign treaty could not proceed in its course, I
agreed to send the draft over to his Majesty's Secretary of State by a
courier express for that purpose, with my own opinion rather in favor
of the proposal than otherwise. • And so it was settled with the com-
missioners. However, afterwards, in casting my eye over the pre-
amble of the draft where it is stated, as if Sir Guy Carleton had orders to
propose a treaty of peace to the Congress, and believing this to be a
mistaken quotation of memory from the copy of Sir Guy's instructions
in the possession of the commissioners, and, as such, inferring an unjust
imputation on the consistency of the conduct of administration, and
apprehending also that the commissioners' entertaining a doubt of this
nature might have been the reason why they wished to be guarded with
all this caution in requiring this special acknowledgment under the
great seal, besides keeping their minds in suspense in all futtire pro-
ceedings, where confidence in good faith ought to smooth the path on
many occasions to a happy termination; I say, in reflecting on these
things, I thought it my duty, and I confess I was, on my own particular
account, a little anxious to have an explanation of this matter.

"And, therefore, after it had been agreed, in the presence of Dr.
Franklin and Mr. Jay, that I should send oflf the draft, I took the
liberty to point out to them the said preamble, telling them that there
might be a possibility of mistake in the quotation in the last part of
the paragraph. Mr. Jay said he had not the copy of Sir Guy's in-
structions, and acknowledged he had inserted those words from a
general impression that remained on his memory, and could not posi-
tively say but there might be some mistake. Dr. Franklin said he had
the copy of the instructions, and would send a duplicate to Mr. Jay in a
few hours. He did so, and I waited on Mr. Jay to see the papers.
Upon the perusal, he owned he had been mistaken, and that Sir Guy's
instructions went no further than an order of communication, to inform
the Congress and General Washington that his Majesty intended (or
had given directions) to grant free and unconditional independence to
the Thirteen States. Finding this prejudice entirely removed, and
that Mr. Jay was perfectly satisfied that the whole course of proceeding
in this matter was fair and consistent, I asked him what occasion there
was then for this extraordinary caution of insisting on the solemnity of

4IO

The Works of [1782

the papers, that you may see how the fact is repre-
sented in Europe. I hope measures will be taken to
secure what is left of those tinfortunate people.

Mr. Laurens is at Nantes, waiting for a passage
with his family to America. His state of health is
unfortunately very bad. Perhaps the sea air may
recover him, and restore him well to his country. I
heartily wish it. He has suffered much by his con-
finement. Be pleased, sir, to present my duty to
the Congress, and assure them of my most faithful
services. With great esteem, I have the honor to

be, etc.,

B. Franklin.

such separate deed tinder the great seal, since a preliminary clause or
article in the treaty, as always intended, might do the whole business,
by making it absolute, and not depending, in the view of ascertainment,
on the event of other or subsequent articles, and which might be so
expressed as to remove every doubt as to the independence being as
free and unconditional as they desired it to be. In confirmation of the
greater expediency and despatch of this method, and that it was the
sincere intention of his Majesty to make this grant in the precise way
they desired, I thought myself warranted in telling him that I had a
full power in my instructions to give them entire satisfaction on this
head, and made no scruple in showing it to him, as it stood in the
fourth article thereof.

"Upon the perusal, Mr. Jay said that was enough, and he was fully
satisfied; and there was no occasion for any other writing on the sub-
ject; that resting upon this would save time, and he was happy, also,
that this discovery of his mistake prevented their asking of his Majesty
any further proof of his good intentions towards them than what were
actually meant and conveyed in those my instructions. Upon this I
promised immediately to send off this representation, and also to de-
sire leave and permission to make an absolute acknowledgment of the
independence of the States to stand invariably as the first part of the
proposed treaty with those gentlemen. Meantime I think it proper
to send enclosed the intended draft (though now of no use here), to
show, by the words scored in the preamble, the grounds of those gentle-
men's hesitation, and what gave occasion for a separate deed under
the great seal." — Paris, August i^th. MS. Letter.

1782] Benjamin Franklin 4"

MCIII

TO ROBERT MORRIS

Passy, 12 August, 1782.

Sir: — I have received (many of them at the same
time) yotir sundry letters of March the 23d, April
8th and 17th, May 17th, i8th, two of the 23d and
29th. It would be a satisfaction to me if you
would likewise mention from time to time the dates
of those you receive from me.

Most of your letters press my obtaining more
money for the present year. The late losses suf-
fered in the West Indies, and the unforeseen neces-
sary expenses the reparation there and here must
occasion, render it more difficult and, I am told, im-
possible; though the good disposition of the court
towards us continues perfect. All I can say on the
head of money, more than I have said in preceding
letters, is that I confide you will be careful not to
bankrupt your banker by your drafts ; and I will do
my utmost, that those you draw shall be duly honored.

The plan you intimate for discharging the bills in
favor of Beaumarchais, though well imagined, was
impracticable. I had accepted them, and he had
discounted them, or paid them away, or divided
them amongst his creditors. They were therefore in
different hands, with whom I could not manage the
transactions proposed. Besides, I had paid them
punctually when they became due, which was before
the receipt of your letter on that subject. That he
was furnished with his funds by the government here,
is a supposition of which no foundation appears;

412 The Works of [1782

he says it was by a company he had formed; and
when he sohcited me to give up a cargo in part
of payment, he urged, with tears in his eyes, the
distress himself and associates were reduced to by
our delay of remittances. I am glad to see that it
is intended to appoint a commissioner to settle all
our public accounts in Europe. I hope he will have
better success with M. Beaumarchais than I have
had. He has often promised solemnly to render an
account in two or three days. Years have since
elapsed and he has not yet done it. Indeed, I doubt
whether his books have been so well kept as to make
it possible.

You direct me, in yours of May 17th, to pay over
into the hands of Mr. Grand, on your account, such
moneys belonging to the United States as may be
in Europe, distinct from those to be advanced for
the current year. I would do it with pleasure, if
there were any such. There may be, indeed, some
in Holland, raised by the new loan, but that is not
in my disposition, though I have no doubt that Mr.
Adams will, on occasion, apply it in support of your
credit. As to all the aids given by the crown, all
the sums borrowed of it, and all the Dutch loans of
ten millions, though the orders to receive have been
given to me, the payments from the Tresor Royal
have all been made on my orders in favor of Mr.
Grand, and the money again paid away by him on
my drafts for public services and expenses, as you
will see by his accounts; so that I never saw or
touched a livre of it, except what I received from
him in discharge of my salary and some disburse-

1782] Benjamin Franklin 4^3

ments. He has even received the whole six millions
of the current year, so that I have nothing in any
shape to pay over to him. On occasion of my lately
desiring to know the state of oiir funds, that I might
judge whether I could undertake to pay what you
were directed to pay to Mr. William Lee by vote of
Congress as soon as the state of public finances would
admit, Mr. Grand wrote me a note, with a short
sketch of their then supposed situation, which I en-
close. You will probably have from him, as soon as
possible, a more perfect account ; but this will serve
to show that I could not prudently comply with
your wish, of making that payment to Mr. Lee, and
I have accordingly declined it, the less xmwillingly,
as he is entitled by the vote to interest.

I send herewith the accounts of the supplies you
have received in goods, which I promised in my last.

The sum of their value is included in the settle-
ment made with this court, mentioned in a former
letter. Herewith I also send a copy of the contract,
which has been long in hand, and but lately com-
pleted. The term of the first yearly payment we are
to make was readily changed at my request, from
the first to the third year after the peace ; the other
marks of the king's bounty towards us will be seen
in the instrument. The interest already due and
forgiven, amounts to more than a million and a half.
What might become due before the peace is uncer-
tain. The charges of exchange, commissions, broker-
age, etc., of the Dutch loan amount to more than
five hundred thousand livres, which is also given, so
that we have the whole sum net, and are to pay for
The Works of [1782

it but foiir per cent. This liquidation of our ac-
counts with the court was completed before the vote
of Congress directing it came to hand. Mr. Grand
examined all the particulars, and I have no doubt
of its being approved.

Mr. Grand, to whom I have communicated your
letter of April 1 7th, will soon write to you fully. We
shall observe the general rule you give respecting
the fifth, sixth, seventh, and eighth bills. The at-
tention, care, and pains necessary to prevent (by
exact accounts of those accepted, and an examina-
tion of those offered) impositions, which are often
attempted by presenting at a distant time, the
second, third, etc., are much greater than I could
have imagined. Much has been saved by that atten-
tion, of which, of late, we keep an account; but the
hazard of loss by such attempts might be dimin-
ished, together with the trouble of examination, by
making fewer small bills.

Your conduct, activity, and address as a financier
and provider for the exigencies of the state are much
admired and praised here, their good consequences
being so evident, particularly with regard to the
rising credit of our country and the value of bills.
No one but yourself can enjoy your growing reputa-
tion more than I do.

Mr. Grand has undertaken to pay any balance
that may be found due to Messrs. le Couteulx out of
the money in his hands. Applying for so small a
sum as five thousand livres would be giving trouble
for a trifle, as all applications for money must be
considered in council.

1782] Benjamin Franklin 415

Mr. Grand having already received the whole six
millions, either in money or accepted bills, payable
at different periods, I expect he will deliver up to
me the bills for that sum, which you have drawn
upon me, the rather as they express value received
by you. I never heard of any mention here of in-
tended monthly payments, or that the money could
not be obtained but by your drafts. I enclose a
letter, by which the payment was ordered of the last
three millions.

I observe what you mention of the order, that the
ministers' salaries are to be hereafter paid in Amer-
ica. I hereby empower and desire you to receive
and remit mine. I do not doubt your doing it regu-
larly and timely; for a minister without money, I
perceive, makes a ridiculous figure here, though se-
cure from arrests. I have taken a quarter's advance
of salary from the 4th of last month, supposing it
not intended to muzzle immediately the mouth of the
ox that treadeth out the corn.

With great esteem, I am, etc.,

B. Franklin.

P. S. — Your boys are well, and Mr. Ridley and
Mr. Barclay still in Holland.

MCIV

TO MRS. MARY HEWSON

Passy, 17 August, 1782.

My Dear Good Child: — I received your kind
letter by Dr. Shuttle worth. It always gives me

4i6 The Works of [1782

great pleasure to hear of the welfare of you and
yotirs. As to myself, I continue as hearty as at my
age could be expected, and as cheerful as ever you
knew me, hoping erelong to see peace and my friends,
whose continued regard for me, after so long and so
thorough an acquaintance with me, I esteem among
my honors and felicities.

It is now a quarter of a century since our friend-
ship commenced ; and, though we lived much of the
time together, it has never been interrupted by the
smallest misunderstanding or coolness. In this ob-
servation I include your good mother, from whom I
had lately the pleasure of receiving a few lines. I
embrace you both with the most tender affection,
being ever sincerely yours,

B. Franklin.

MCV

TO THE COUNT DE VERGENNES

Passy, 24 August, 1782.

Mr. Franklin presents his respectful compliments
to Monsieur le Comte de Vergennes. He has
searched for the Boston paper, 6th June, in which
mention is made of 4,000 troops being embarked at
New York, but cannot now find it. Thinks it may
be in the hands of M. le Marquis de Lafayette, and
that it was dated about the beginning of July. He
sends enclosed a copy of two articles relating to an
embarkation intended. In a letter he received from
an intelligent person at Warwick in Rhode Island,

1782] Benjamin Franklin 417

dated June 25th, it is said: "We have been lately-
surprised with considerable fleets appearing as if
they intended to repossess Rhode Island, but they
passed by after three or four days." From their
passing by Rhode Island, Mr. F. imagined they were
gone to reinforce Halifax, or Newfoimdland and
Quebec.

MCVI

TO ROBERT R. LIVINGSTON

Passy, 3 September, 1782,

Sir: — I have just received yours, dated the 23d of
June.* The accounts of the general sentiments of
our people respecting propositions from England,
and the rejoicings on the birth of the Dauphin, give
pleasure here ; and it affords me much satisfaction to
find the conduct of Congress approved by all who
hear or speak of it, and to see all the marks of a con-
stantly growing regard for us, and confidence in us
among those in whom such sentiments are most to
be desired.

I hope the affair of Captain Asgill was settled as
it ought to be, by the punishment of Lippencot.
Applications have been made here to obtain letters
in favor of the young gentleman. Enclosed I send
you a copy of the answer I gave to that made to me.

I had before acquainted M. Tousard that his pen-
sion would be paid in America, and there only, it
being unreasonable to expect that Congress should

^ See Diplomatic Correspondence, Vol. III., p. 366.

VOL. IX. — 27.

4i8 The Works of [1782

open a pay office in every part of the world where
pensioners should choose to reside. I shall communi-
cate to him that part of your letter.

You wish to know what allowance I make to my
private secretary. My grandson, William T. Frank-
lin, came over with me and served me as a private
secretary during the time of the commissioners ; and
no secretary to the commission arriving, though we
had been made to expect one, he did business for us
all, and this without any allowance for his services,
though both Mr. Lee and Mr. Deane at times men-
tioned it to me as a thing proper to be done, and in
justice due to him. When I became appointed sole
minister here, and the whole business, which the
commissioners had before divided with me, came
into my hands, I was obliged to exact more service
from him, and he was indeed, by being so long in
the business, become capable of doing more. At
length, in the beginning of the year 1781, when he
became of age, considering his constant close atten-
tion to the duties required, and his having thereby
missed the opportunity of studying the law, for
which he had been intended, I determined to make
him some compensation for the time past, and fix
some compensation for the time to come, till the
pleasure of Congress respecting him should be known.
I accordingly settled an account with him, allowing
him from the beginning of December, 1776, to the
end of 1777, the sum of three thousand four hundred
livres; and for the year 1778, the sum of four thou-
sand livres; for 1779, four thousand, eight hundred
livres; and for 1780, six thousand livres. Since that

1782] Benjamin Franklin 419

time I have allowed him at the rate of three hundred
louis per anniim, being what I saw had been allowed
by Congress to the secretary of Mr. William Lee,
who could not have had, I imagine, a fourth part of
the business to go through; since my secretary, be-
sides the writing and copying the papers relative to
my common ministerial transactions, has had all
those occasioned by my acting in the various em-
ployments of judge of admiralty, consul, purchaser
of goods for the public, etc., besides that of accept-
ing the Congress bills, a business that requires being
always at home, bills coming by post from different
ports and countries, and often requiring immediate
answers, whether good or not; and to that end, it
being necessary to examine by the books, exactly
kept of all preceding acceptances, in order to detect
double presentations, which happen very frequently.
The great number of these bills makes almost suffi-
cient business for one person, and the confinement
they occasion is such, that we cannot allow ourselves
a day's excursion into the country, and the want of
exercise has hurt our healths in several instances.

The Congress pay much larger salaries to some
secretaries who, I believe, deserve them; but not
more than my grandson does the comparatively
small one I have allowed to him, his fidelity, exacti-
tude, and address in transacting business being really
what one could wish in such an officer; and the
genteel appearance a young gentleman in his sta-
tion is obliged to make, requiring at least such an
income. I do not mention the extraordinary busi-
ness that has been imposed upon us in this embassy,

420 The Works of [1782

as a foundation for demanding higher salaries than
others. I never soHcited for a pubHc office, either
for myself or any relation, yet I never refused one
that I was capable of executing, when public service
was in question; and I never bargained for salary,
but contented myself with whatever my constitu-
ents were pleased to allow me. The Congress will
therefore consider every article charged in my ac-
count, distinct from the salary originally voted, not
as what I presume to insist upon, but as what I
propose only for their consideration, and they will
allow what they think proper.

You desire an accurate estimate of those contin-
gent expenses. I enclose copies of two letters '
which passed between Mr. Adams and me on the
subject, and show the articles of which they consist.
Their amount in different years may be found in my
accounts, except the article of house rent, which has
never yet been settled; M. de Chaimiont, our land-
lord, having originally proposed to leave it till the
end of the war, and then to accept for it a piece
of American land from the Congress, such as they
might judge equivalent. If the Congress did intend
all contingent charges whatever to be included in
the salary, and do not think proper to pay on the
whole so much, in that case I would humbly suggest
that the saving may be most conveniently made
by a diminution of the salary, leaving the contingen-
cies to be charged ; because they may necessarily be
very different in different years, and at different
courts.

* See Diplomatic Correspondence, Vol. III., p. 238.

1782] Benjamin Franklin 421

I have been more diffuse on this subject, as your
letter gave occasion for it, and it is probably the
last time I shall mention it. Be pleased to present
my dutiful respects to Congress, assure them of my
best services, and believe me to be, with sincere
esteem, etc.,

B. Franklin.

P. S. — As you will probably lay this letter before
Congress, I take the liberty of joining to it an ex-
tract of my letter to the President, of the 12th of
March, 1781, and of repeating my request therein
contained, relative to my grandson. I enclose, like-
wise, extracts of letters from Messrs. Jay and Lau-
rens, which both show the regard those gentlemen
have for him, and their desire of his being noticed
by the Congress.

MCVII

TO JOHN JAY

Passy, 4 September, 1782.

Dear Sir: — Mr. Oswald's courier being returned,
with directions to him to make the independence of
America the first article in the treaty, I would wait
on you if I could, to discourse on the subject; but,
as I cannot, I wish to see you here this evening, if
not inconvenient to you. With great esteem, I have
the honor to be, dear sir, etc.,

B. Franklin.

422 The Works of [1781

MCVIII

FROM RICHARD OSWALD

Paris, 5 September, 1782.

Sir: — In consequence of the notice I have just now
had from Mr. Jay, of your desire of an extract from
my last letter from the Secretary of State, regard-
ing the proposed treaty on the subject of American
affairs, and my authority in relation thereto, I take
the liberty to send the same enclosed, which, to-
gether with the powers contained in the commission,
which I had the honor of laying before you and Mr.
Jay, I am hopeful will satifsy you of the willingness
and sincere desire of his Majesty to give you entire
content on that important subject.'

^ From Thomas Townshend to Richard Oswald. — "I have received and
laid before the king your several letters, together with the three packets
of papers containing conversations with Dr. Franklin and Mr. Jay, and
your observations thereupon; and I am commanded to signify to you
his Majesty's approbation of your conduct in communicating to the
American commissioners the fourth article of your instructions, which
could not but convince them that the negotiations for peace, and ces-
sion of independence to the Thirteen United Colonies, were intended
to be carried on and concluded with the commissioners in Europe.
Those gentlemen having expressed their satisfaction concerning that
article, it is hoped they will not entertain a doubt of his Majesty's
determination to exercise in the fullest extent the powers with which
the act of Parliament hath invested him, by granting to America full,
complete, and unconditional independence, in the most explicit man-
ner, as an article of treaty."

The above is the extract alluded to by Mr. Oswald in the text. The
following particulars, contained in the same letter and constituting a
part of Mr. Oswald's instructions, were not communicated to the
American commissioners.

"But you are at the same time to represent to them, if necessary,
that the king is not enabled by that act to cede independence uncon-
nected with a truce or treaty of peace ; and that therefore the cession of
independence cannot stand as a single separate article, to be ratified

1782] Benjamin Franklin 423

This extract I would have sent before now, if I
had thought you wished to have it before I had the

by itself, but may be (and his Majesty is willing it shall be) the first
article of the treaty, Tinconditionally of any compensation or equivalent
to be thereafter required in the said treaty. You will observe that the
very article of your instructions referred to is conformable to this idea,
as it is expressly mentioned to be offered by his Majesty as the price of
peace; and that independence, declared and ratified absolutely and
irrevocably, and not depending upon the event of concluding an entire
treaty, for the purpose of independence alone, and not for a peace or
truce; to which all the powers of the act refer.

"If the American commissioners are, as his Majesty is, sincerely dis-
posed to a speedy termination of the calamities of war, it is not to be
conceived that they will be inclined to delay and to embarrass the
negotiation, by refusing to accept the independence as an article of the
treaty, which, by that means, may be to them secured finally and com-
pletely, so as to leave no possible groimd of jealousy or suspicion.
But, in order to give the most uneqmvocal proof of the king's earnest
wish to remove every impediment, I am commanded to signify to you
his Majesty's disposition to agree to the plan of pacification proposed
by Dr. Franklin himself, including, as it does, the great point in ques-
tion as part of the first article.

"The articles as specified by Dr. Franklin to you, and recited in your
letter to the Earl of Shelbume of the loth July last, are as follows:

" ist. Of the first class necessary to be granted, independence full and
complete in every sense, to the Thirteen States, and all the troops to be
withdrawn from thence.

"2d. A settlement of the boundaries of their colonies and the loyal
colonies.

"3d. A confinement of the boundaries of Canada, at least to what
they were before the last act of Parliament, you think in 1774; if not,
to a still more contracted state, on an ancient footing.

"4th. A freedom of fishing on the banks of Newfoundland and else-
where, as well for fish as whales.

"These articles were stated by you as all that Dr. Franklin thought
necessary; and his Majesty, trusting that they were suggested with
perfect sincerity and good faith, has authorized you to go to the full
extent of lYiem."— Whitehall, September 1st. MS. Letter.

It is worthy of particular observation here, that the original instruc-
tions to Mr. Oswald authorized him to accede to the articles which had
been proposed by Dr. Franklin as essential, one of which was the right
of the United States to the fisheries. Although the ministry afterwards
made a strong effort to modify these terms, and especially the article in

424 The Works of [1782

honor of waiting on you myself; which was only
delayed until I should be informed by Mr. Jay that
you were well enough to see me upon business.

regard to the fisheries, yet there is no evidence that they intended at
any time to insist on this modification as a sine qud -non; nor is it ever
intimated by Mr. Oswald, in his letters to the ministry, that in any
event this claim would be reUnqtoished. On the contrary, he repeat-
edly states that Dr. Franklin, as well as the other commissioners, was
determined on that point.

In writing to Mr. Townshend, on the i ith of September, Mr. Oswald
says :

"As to fishing on the Great Bank, or any other Bank, I own I did not
think it material to ask any questions, as I supposed the privilege would
not be denied them; or, if denied, I doubted whether their exclusion
could be maintained but by continuing in a state of perpetual quarrel
with the people of the New England governments. An explanation
was still the less necessary, as a question on the same subject would
come under our consideration in our treaty with France. In the
determination of this last point, perhaps it may be no loss to Great
Britain that the Americans are (with respect to the fishing part) ad-
mitted to an equal privilege with the French." — MS. Letter.

From Richard Oswald to Thomas Townshend. — "Two days ago Dr.
Franklin sent to me, desiring a copy of the instructions which I had
promised. I copied out the first part of your letter of the ist instant,
leaving out some immaterial words, and sent it enclosed in a letter from
myself, of both of which papers there is a duplicate under this cover.
Since then I have seen Mr. Jay frequently, and have used every argu-
ment in my power to get him over his objections to treating without a
separate and absolute acknowledgment of independence. And for that
purpose I found it necessary, although unwillingly, yet of my own
private opinion, to tell him that there might be a doubt whether the
powers in the act of Parliament went so far as to allow of making that
grant otherwise than as in the course of a treaty of peace, which, as you
are pleased to observe, was the sole object of the act.

"I said, moreover, that if they still persisted in this demand, there
could be nothing done until the meeting of Parliament, and perhaps for
some considerable time thereafter; that certain articles had been
already agreed upon, and if we went on and settled the treaty on that
footing, with independence standing as the first article of it, we might
give opportunity to the foreign treaties to be going on at the same time ;
so as, for a conclusion of a general peace, there might be nothing want-
ing at the meeting of Parliament, but a confirmation of the first article,

1782] Benjamin Franklin 425

I heartily wish you a recovery of your health, and
am, with sincere esteem and regard, sir, your most
obedient humble servant, Richard Oswald.

in case it should be then thought necessary, which I imagined would
not be the case.

"To avoid being tedious, I forbear repeating a great many more
things to the same purpose, which passed in those conversations with
Mr. Jay. Dr. Franklin being so much out of order, I could not think
of disturbing him by frequent visits to Passy, and therefore continued
taking proper opportunities of talking to Mr. Jay; and the more
readily that, by any judgment I could form of his real intentions, I
could not possibly doubt of their pointing directly at a speedy con-
clusion of the war, and also leaning as favorably to the side of England
as might be consistent with the duties of the trust he has undertaken.
"To convince me that nothing less than this stood in the way of
agreeing to my request of accommodating this difficulty in some shape
or other, he told me at last, if Dr. Franklin would consent, he was
willing, in place of an express and previous acknowledgment of inde-
pendence, to accept of a constructive denomination of character, to be
introduced in the preamble of the treaty, by only describing their con-
stituents as the Thirteen United States of America. Upon my appear-
ing to listen to this, and to consent to the substitution, he said: 'But
you have no authority in your commission to treat with us under that
denomination; for the sundry descriptions of the parties to be treated
with, as they stand in that commission, will not bear such application to
the character we are directed to claim and abide by, as to support and
authenticate any act of your subscription now proposed. ^ There is
such a variety of denominations in that commission, that it may be
applied to the people you see walking in the streets, as well as to us.

"When in reply I imputed that variety to the official style of such
papers, Mr. Jay said it might be so, but they must not rest a question of
that importance upon any such explanation; and since they were will-
ing to accept of this in place of an express declaration of independence,
the least they could expect was, that it should appear to be warranted
by an explicit authority in that commission. I then asked, if instead
of ' States ' it would not do to say ' Provinces ' ; or ' States or Provinces. '
Mr. Jay said neither of these would answer. I then begged the favor of
him to give me in writing some sketch of the alteration he would have
to be made in the commission. He readily did so in a minute, which
is enclosed; to be more largely explained, if necessary, when the com-
mission comes to be made out. He also said that this new commission
must be under the great seal, as the other was.

"Doubting as to the propriety of giving such things in writing, I

426 The Works of [1782

MCIX

TO RICHARD OSWALD

Passy, 8 September, 1782.

Sir: — I have received the honor of yours, dated
the 5th instant, enclosing an extract of a letter to

thought it was best to go out to Dr. Franklin's, carrying the instructions
along with me, to see whether a reading of that article could not satisfy
him. But after reading it, as he still expressed a desire of having a
copy, I told him that although I had no order to that purpose, yet at
any hazard whatsoever, since he desired it, I would not scruple to trust
it in his hands. And I then sat down and wrote out a copy and signed
it, which, after comparing it with the original, he laid by, saying very-
kindly that the only use he proposed to make of it was, that in case they
took any liberties for the sake of removing difficulties not expressly
specified in their instructions, he might have this paper in his hands
to show in justification of their confidence, or some words to that pur-
pose; for I cannot exactly quote them. The Doctor then desired I
would tell Mr. Jay he wished to see him in the evening. He did go out
again that night, and again this morning; no doubt with a view of
agreeing upon an expedient for removing those obstacles to their pro-
ceeding, as hinted at in the Doctor's letter to me.

"At noon, and since writing the above, Mr. Jay called and told me
that, upon further consultation and consideration of the matter, it was
thought advisable not to press upon his Majesty's ministers those argu-
ments which he proposed to make in the letter he intended to write to
me (and which it was understood I might send home), as considering it
somewhat more than indelicate for them to pretend to see more clearly
than the king's ministers might do, the expediency, if not the necessity,
at this critical time, of deciding with precision and despatch upon every
measure that can be reasonably taken for extricating Great Britain out
of her present embarrassing situation, in which her affairs must con-
tinue to be involved while there remains any hesitation in coming to an
agreement with the States of America.

"There only remained for me to ask a single and final question of Mr.
Jay, whether in his last conference with the Doctor (for he was just then
come in from him) it was settled between them that upon my receiving
from his Majesty a new commission under the great seal, such as the
last, with an alteration only as before mentioned, of my being em-
powered to treat with them as commissioners of the Thirteen United
States of America, naming the said States by their several provincial
distinctions as usual; I said, whether in that case they would be

1782] Benjamin Franklin 427

your Excellency, from the Right Honorable Thomas
Townshend, one of his Majesty's principal secretaries
of state, wherein your conduct in commimicating to
us the fourth article of your instructions appears
to have been approved by his Majesty. I suppose,

satisfied to go on with the treaty, and without any other declaration of
independence than as standing as an article in that treaty. Mr. Jay's
answer was, that 'with this they wotild be satisfied, and that immedi-
ately upon such commission coming over, they would proceed in the
treaty. And more than that,' he said, 'they would not be long about
it; and perhaps would not be overhard upon us in the conditions.'" —
Paris, September loth. MS. Letter.

The "instruction" alluded to at the beginning of the above extracts
from Mr. Oswald's letter, and also in Dr. Franklin's letter of September
8th, is as follows:

"Article IV. — In case you find the American commissioners are not
at liberty to treat on any terms short of independence, you are to de-
clare to them that you have authority to make that concession ; our
ardent wish for peace, disposing us to purchase it at the price of acced-
ing to the complete independence of the Thirteen Colonies, namely,
New Hampshire, Massachusetts Bay, Rhode Island, Connecticut, New
York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, the Three Lower Cotmties on the
Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, and
Georgia in North America."

From Thomas Townshend to Richard Oswald. — "I am commanded to
signify to you his Majesty's approbation of your conduct in communi-
cating to the American commissioners the fourth article of your in-
structions, which could not but convince them that the negotiation
for peace and the cession of independence to the Thirteen United
Colonies were intended to be carried on and concluded with the com-
missioners in Europe. Those gentlemen having expressed their satis-
faction concerning that article, it is hoped they will not entertain a
doubt of his Majesty's determination to exercise in the fullest extent
the powers with which the act of Parliament has invested him, by
granting to America full, complete, and unconditional independence,

in the most explicit manner as an article of treaty." Whitehall,

September ist. MS. Letter.

From, Thomas Townshend to Richard Oswald. — "I received on Satur-
day last your packets of the loth and i ith of this month.. A meeting
of the king's confidential servants was held as soon as possible to con-
sider the contents of them; and it was at once agreed to make the

428 The Works of [1782

therefore, that there is no impropriety in my re-
questing a copy of that instruction; and if you see
none, I wish to receive it from you, hoping it may
be of use in removing some of the difficulties that
obstruct our proceeding. With great and sincere
esteem, I am, sir, etc.,

B. Franklin.^

MCX

TO THE COUNT DE VERGENNES

Passy, 8 September, 1782,

Sir: — Mr. Barclay, who will have the honor of
dehvering you this, will have that of laying before
your Excellency his commission from the Congress
of the United States of America, appointing him

alteration in the commission proposed to you by Mr. Jay. I trust that
the readiness with which this proposal was accepted will be considered
as an ample testimony of the openness and sincerity with which the
government of this country is disposed to treat with the Americans." —
Whitehall, September 20th. MS. Letter.

From Richard Oswald to Thomas Townshend. — "When the privilege of
fishing was asked by Dr. Franklin in August, drying the fish in New-
foundland was not mentioned particularly, and I did not think it
proper to appear so attentive and tenacious of such like indulgences, as
to ask any questions about it. And when lately demanded, although
I objected, yet I did not insist for the same reason. And now, although
Mr. Jay seems not positively to say that the privilege is indispensable,
yet I own I wish much that it may not be considered in England as a
matter of such consequence as to occasion a claim to exception; for,
to tell the truth, when Dr. Franklin stated the privilege of fishing, I
suspected drying was included, though not mentioned. Otherwise I
should have wondered at his asking our leave for the Americans catch-
ing fish in the open seas, so near their own coasts, and wrote so in my
letters at the time." — Paris, October 11th. MS. Letter.

^ Mr. Hartley was also at this time in Paris.

1782] Benjamin Franklin 429

their Consul-General in France. Mr. Barclay being
about to enter on his consular functions, I request
your Excellency would, in the usual manner, au-
thenticate and make known his appointment, that in
the exercise thereof he may meet with no molesta-
tion or impediment, but, on the contrary, receive
that countenance and assistance he may stand in
need of. With great respect, I have the honor to
be, sir, your Excellency's most obedient and most
humble servant, B^ Franklin.

MCXI

TO SIR JOSEPH BANKS, PRESIDENT OF THE ROYAL
SOCIETY, LONDON

Passy, 9 September, 1782.

Dear Sir: — I have just received the very kind,
friendly letter you were so good as to write to me by
Dr. Broussonnet. Be assured, that I long earnestly
for a return of those peaceful times, when I could
sit down in sweet society with my English philo-
sophical friends, communicating to each other new
discoveries, and proposing improvements of old ones;
all tending to extend the power of man over matter,
avert or diminish the evils he is subject to, or aug-
ment the number of his enjoyments. Much more
happy should I be thus employed in your most de-
sirable company, than in that of all the grandees
of the earth projecting plans of mischief, however
necessary they may be supposed for obtaining
greater good.

430 The Works of [1782

I am glad to learn by the Doctor that your great
work goes on. I admire your magnanimity in the
undertaking, and the perseverance with which you
have prosecuted it.

I join with you most perfectly in the charming
wish you so well express, "that such measures may
be taken by both parties as may tend to the eleva-
tion of both, rather than the destruction of either."
If any thing has happened endangering one of them,
my comfort is, that I endeavored earnestly to pre-
vent it, and gave honest, faithful advice, which, if it
had been regarded, would have been effectual. And
still, if proper means are used to produce, not only
a peace, but what is much more interesting, a thor-
ough reconciliation, a few years may heal the wounds
that have been made in our happiness, and produce
a degree of prosperity of which at present we can
hardly form a conception. With great and sincere
esteem and respect, I am, dear sir, your most obedi-
ent and most humble servant,

B. Franklin.

MCXII

TO THE EARL OF GRANTHAM '

Passy, II September, 1782.

My Lord: — A long and severe indisposition has
delayed my acknowledging the receipt of the letter

^This in reply to a letter from the Earl, dated July 26th, commending
Mr. Fitzherbert, who was to succeed Mr. Grenville in Paris, to Frank-
lin's acquaintance. Fitzherbert was afterward created Lord St.
Helens.

1782] Benjamin Franklin 431

your Lordship did me honor of writing to me by
Mr. Fitzherbert.

You do me justice in beheving that I agree with
you in earnestly wishing the establishment of an
honorable and lasting peace ; and I am happy to be
assured by your Lordship that it is the system of the
ministers with whom you are co-operating. I know
it to be the sincere desire of the United States ; and,
with such dispositions on both sides, there is reason
to hope that the good work in its progress will meet
with little difficulty. A small one has occurred in
the commencement, with which Mr. Oswald will
acquaint you. I flatter myself that means will be
found on your part for removing it; and my best
endeavors in removing the subsequent ones (if any
should arise) may be relied on.

I had the honor of being known to your Lord-
ship's father. On several occasions he manifested a
regard for me, and a confidence in me. I shall be
happy if my conduct in the present important busi-
ness may procure me the same rank in the esteem of
his worthy successor. I am, with sincere respect,
my Lord, your Lordship's most obedient and most
humble servant,

B. Franklin.

MCXIII

TO DAVID HARTLEY

Passy, 17 September, 1782.

My Dear Friend: — Since those acknowledged in
my last, I have received your several favors of

432 The Works of [1782

August the 1 6th/ 20th, and 26th. I have been a
long time afflicted with the gravel and gout, which
have much indisposed me for writing. I am even
now in pain, but will no longer delay some answer.

I did not perfectly comprehend the nature of
your appointment respecting the refugees, and I
supposed you would in a subsequent letter explain
it. But, as I now find you have declined the ser-
vice, such explanation is unnecessary.

I did receive the paper you inquire about, entitled
Preliminaries, and dated May, 1782; but it was
from you, and I know nothing of their having been
communicated to this court. The third proposi-
tion— "that, in case the negotiation between Great
Britain and the allies of America should not suc-
ceed, but the war continue between them, America
should act and be treated as a neutral nation" —
appeared at first sight inadmissible, being contrary
to our treaty. The truce, too, seems not to have
been desired by any of the parties. With unaltera-
ble esteem and affection, I am, my dear friend, ever

yours, etc.,

B. Franklin.

MCXIV

INFORMATION TO THOSE WHO WOULD REMOVE TO
AMERICA

Many persons in Europe having by letters, ex-
pressed to the writer of this, who is well acquainted

^See Diplomatic Correspondence, Vol. III., p. 502.

1782] Benjamin Franklin 433

with North America, their desire of transporting and
establishing themselves in that country, but who
appear to have formed, through ignorance, mistaken
ideas and expectations of what is to be obtained
there, he thinks it may be useful, and prevent incon-
venient, expensive, and fruitless removals and voy-
ages of improper persons, if he gives some clearer
and truer notions of that part of the world than
appear to have hitherto prevailed.

He finds it is imagined by numbers that the in-
habitants of North America are rich, capable of
rewarding, and disposed to reward, all sorts of in-
genuity; that they are at the same time ignorant
of all the sciences, and, consequently, that strangers
possessing talents in the belles-lettres, fine arts, etc.,
must be highly esteemed, and so well paid as to
become easily rich themselves; that there are also
abundance of profitable offices to be disposed of,
which the natives are not qualified to fill ; and that,
having few persons of family among them, strangers
of birth must be greatly respected, and of course
easily obtain the best of those offices, which will
make all their fortunes; that the governments too,
to encourage emigration from Europe, not only pay
the expense of personal transportation, but give
lands gratis to strangers, with negroes to work for
them, utensils of husbandry, and stocks of cattle.
These are all wild imaginations; and those who go
to America with expectations founded upon them
will surely find themselves disappointed.

The truth is, that though there are in that country
few people so miserable as the poor of Europe, there

VOL. IX. 1 '5.
The Works of [1782

are also very few that in Europe would be called
rich; it is rather a general happy mediocrity that
prevails. There are few great proprietors of the soil,
and few tenants; most people cultivate their own
lands, or follow some handicraft or merchandise;
very few rich enough to live idly upon their rents or
incomes, or to pay the highest prices given in Europe
for painting, statues, architecture, and the other
works of art that are more curious than useful.
Hence the natural geniuses that have arisen in
America with such talents, have uniformly quitted
that country for Europe, where they can be more
suitably rewarded. It is true that letters and mathe-
matical knowledge are in esteem there, but they are
at the same time more common than is apprehended ;
there being already existing nine colleges or univer-
sities, viz., four in New England, and one in each of
the provinces of New York, New Jersey, Pennsyl-
vania, Maryland, and Virginia, all furnished with
learned professors; besides a number of smaller
academies. These educate many of their youth in
the languages, and those sciences that qualify men
for the professions of divinity, law, or physic.
Strangers indeed are by no means excluded from
exercising those professions; and the quick increase
of inhabitants ever3Avhere gives them a chance of
employ, which they have in common with the na-
tives. Of civil offices, or employments, there are
few ; no superfluous ones, as in Europe ; and it is a
rule established in some of the States, that no office
should be so profitable as to make it desirable. The
thirty-sixth article of the Constitution of Pennsyl-

1782] Benjamin Franklin 435

vania runs expressly in these words: "As every free-
man, to preserve his independence (if he has not
a sufficient estate), ought to have some profession,
calling, trade, or farm, whereby he may honestly
subsist, there can be no necessity for, nor use in, es-
tablishing offices of profit, the usual effects of which
are dependence and servility unbecoming free -men,
in the possessors and expectants; faction, conten-
tion, corruption, and disorder among the people.
Wherefore, whenever an office, through increase of
fees or otherwise, becomes so profitable, as to occa-
sion many to apply for it, the profits ought to be
lessened by the Legislature."

These ideas prevailing more or less in all the
United States, it cannot be worth any man's while,
who has a means of living at home, to expatriate
himself, in hopes of obtaining a profitable civil office
in America; and, as to military offices, they are at
an end with the war, the armies being disbanded.
Much less is it advisable for a person to go thither
who has no other quality to recommend him but his
birth. In Europe it has indeed its value; but it is
a commodity that cannot be carried to a worse mar-
ket than that of America, where people do not in-
quire concerning a stranger. What is he f but, What
can he do f If he has any useful art, he is welcome;
and if he exercises it, and behaves well, he will be
respected by all that know him ; but a mere man of
quality, who, on that account wants to live upon
the pubHc, by some office or salary, will be despised
and disregarded. The husbandman is in honor there,
and even the mechanic, because their employments

436 The Works of [1782

are useful. The people have a saying, that God
Almighty is himself a mechanic, the greatest in the
universe; and he is respected and admired more
for the variety, ingenuity, and utility of his handi-
works, than for the antiquity of his family. They
are pleased with the observation of a negro, and
frequently mention it, that Boccarora (meaning the
white man) make de Hack man workee, make de horse
workee, make de ox workee, make ebery ting workee;
only de hog. He, de hog, no workee; he eat, he drink,
he walk about, he go to sleep when he please, he live
like a gempleman. According to these opinions of the
Americans, one of them would think himself more
obliged to a genealogist, who could prove for him
that his ancestors and relations for ten generations
had been ploughmen, smiths, carpenters, turners,
weavers, tanners, or even shoemakers, and conse-
quently that they were useful members of society,
than if he could only prove that they were gentle-
men, doing nothing of value, but living idly on
the labor of others, mere fruges consumer e nati,^ and
otherwise good for nothing, till by their death their
estates, like the carcass of the negro's gentleman-
hog, come to be cut up.

With regard to encouragements for strangers
from government, they are really only what are de-
rived from good laws and liberty. Strangers are
welcome, because there is room enough for them all,
and therefore the old inhabitants are not jealous of
them; the laws protect them sufficiently, so that

» " born

Merely to eat up the com." — Watts.

1782] Benjamin Franklin 437

they have no need of the patronage of great men;
and every one will enjoy securely the profits of his
industry. But, if he does not bring a fortune with
him, he must work and be industrious to live. One
or two years' residence gives him all the rights of a
citizen; but the government does not, at present,
whatever it may have done in former times, hire
people to become settlers, by paying their passages,
giving land, negroes, utensils, stock, or any other
kind of emolimient whatsoever. In short, America
is the land of labor, and by no means what the
English call Lubberland, and the French Pays de
Cocagne, where the streets are said to be paved with
half -peck loaves, the houses tiled with pancakes, and
where the fowls fly about ready roasted, crying, Come
eat me!

Who then are the kind of persons to whom an
emigration to America may be advantageous ? And
what are the advantages they may reasonably
expect ?

Land being cheap in that country, from the vast
forests still void of inhabitants, and not likely to be
occupied in an age to come, insomuch that the pro-
priety of a hundred acres of fertile soil full of wood
may be obtained near the frontiers, in many places,
for eight or ten guineas, hearty young laboring men,
who understand the husbandry of corn and cattle,
which is nearly the same in that country as in Eu-
rope, may easily establish themselves there. A little
money saved of the good wages they receive there,
while they work for others, enables them to buy
the land and begin their plantation, in which they

438 The Works of [1782

are assisted by the good-will of their neighbors, and
some credit. Multitudes of poor people from Eng-
land, Ireland, Scotland, and Germany, have, by this
means, in a few years become wealthy farmers, who,
in their own countries, where all the lands are fully
occupied, and the wages of labor low, could never
have emerged from the poor condition wherein they
were born.

From the salubrity of the air, the healthiness of
the climate, the plenty of good provisions, and the
encouragement to early marriages by the certainty
of subsistence in cultivating the earth, the increase of
inhabitants by natural generation is very rapid in
America, and becomes still more so by the accession
of strangers; hence there is a continual demand for
more artisans of all the necessary and useful kinds,
to supply those cultivators of the earth with houses,
and with furniture and utensils of the grosser sorts,
which cannot so well be brought from Europe. Tol-
erably good workmen in any of those mechanic arts
are sure to find employ, and to be well paid for their
work, there being no restraints preventing strangers
from exercising any art they iinderstand, nor any
permission necessary. If they are poor, they begin
first as servants or journeymen ; and if they are sober,
industrious, and frugal, they soon become masters,
establish themselves in business, marry, raise fam-
ilies, and become respectable citizens.

Also, persons of moderate fortunes and capitals,
who, having a number of children to provide for, are
desirous of bringing them up to industry, and to
secure estates for their posterity, have opportunities

1782] Benjamin Franklin 439

of doing it in America, which Europe does not afford.
There they may be taught and practise profitable
mechanic arts, without incurring disgrace on that
account, but, on the contrary, acquiring respect by
such abilities. There small capitals laid out in lands,
which daily become more valuable by the increase
of people, afford a solid prospect of ample fortunes
thereafter for those children. The writer of this has
known several instances of large tracts of land,
bought, on what was then the frontier of Pennsyl-
vania, for ten pounds per hundred acres, which,
when the settlements had been extended far beyond
them, sold readily, without any improvement made
upon them, for three pounds per acre. The acre in
America is the same with the English acre, or the
acre of Normandy.

Those who desire to understand the state of gov-
ernment in America, would do well to read the Con-
stitutions of the several States, and the Articles of
Confederation that bind the whole together for gen-
eral purposes, under the direction of one assembly,
called the Congress. These Constitutions have been
printed, by order of Congress, in America; two edi-
tions of them have also been printed in London;
and a good translation of them into French has
lately been published at Paris.

Several of the princes of Europe, of late, from an
opinion of advantage to arise by producing all com-
modities and manufactures within their own do-
minions, so as to diminish or render useless their
importations, have endeavored to entice workmen
from other countries by high salaries, privileges, etc.

440 The Works of [1782

Many persons, pretending to be skilled in various
great mantifactures, imagining that America must be
in want of them, and that the Congress would prob-
ably be disposed to imitate the princes above men-
tioned, have proposed to go over, on condition of
having their passages paid, lands given, salaries ap-
pointed, exclusive privileges for terms of years, etc.
Such persons, on reading the Articles of Confedera-
tion, will find that the Congress have no power com-
mitted to them, nor money put into their hands,
for such purposes; and that, if any such encourage-
ment is given, it must be by the government of some
separate State. This, however, has rarely been done
in America; and, when it has been done, it has
rarely succeeded, so as to establish a manufacture,
which the country was not yet so ripe for as to
encourage private persons to set it up; labor being
generally too dear there, and hands difficult to be
kept together, every one desiring to be a master,
and the cheapness of lands inclining many to leave
trades for agriculture. Some, indeed, have met with
success, and are carried on to advantage ; but they
are generally such as require only a few hands, or
wherein great part of the work is performed by
machines. Goods that are bulky, and of so small
value as not well to bear the expense of freight, may
often be made cheaper in the country than they can
be imported; and the manufacture of such goods
will be profitable wherever there is a sufficient de-
mand. The farmers in America produce, indeed, a
good deal of wool and flax; and none is exported, it
is all worked up; but it is in the way of domestic

1782] Benjamin Franklin 441

manufacture, for the use of the family. The buying
up quantities of wool and flax, with the design to
employ spinners, weavers, etc., and form great estab-
lishments, producing quantities of linen and woollen
goods for sale, has been several times attempted in
different provinces; but those projects have gener-
ally failed, goods of equal value being imported
cheaper. And when the governments have been so-
licited to support such schemes by encouragements
in money, or by imposing duties on importation of
such goods, it has been generally refused, on this
principle, that, if the country is ripe for the manu-
facture, it may be carried on by private persons to
advantage ; and if not, it is a folly to think of forcing
nature. Great establishments of manufacture re-
quire great nimibers of poor to do the work for small
wages; those poor are to be found in Europe, but
will not be found in America till the lands are all
taken up and cultivated, and the excess of people,
who cannot get land, want employment. The manu-
facture of silk, they say, is natural in France, as that
of cloth in England, because each country produces
in plenty the first material ; but if England will have
a manufacture of silk as well as that of cloth, and
France of cloth as well as that of silk, these unnat-
ural operations must be supported by mutual pro-
hibitions, or high duties on the importation of each
other's goods; by which means the workmen are
enabled to tax the home consumer by greater prices,
while the higher wages they receive makes them
neither happier nor richer, since they only drink
more and work less. Therefore, the governments in

442 The Works of [1782

America do nothing to encourage such projects. The
people, by this means, are not imposed on, either by
the merchant or the mechanic. If the merchant
demands too much profit on imported shoes, they
buy of the shoemaker; and if he asks too high a
price, they take them of the merchant; thus the
two professions are checks on each other. The shoe-
maker, however, has, on the whole, a considerable
profit upon his labor in America, beyond what he
had in Europe, as he can add to his price a sum
nearly equal to all the expenses of freight and com-
mission, risk or insurance, etc., necessarily charged
by the merchant. And the case is the same with
the workmen in every other mechanic art. Hence
it is that artisans generally live better and more
easily in America than in Europe ; and such as are
good economists make a comfortable provision for
age, and for their children. Such may, therefore,
remove with advantage to America.

In the long-settled countries of Europe, all arts,
trades, professions, farms, etc., are so full, that it is
difficult for a poor man, who has children, to place
them where they may gain, or learn to gain, a decent
livelihood. The artisans, who fear creating future
rivals in business, refuse to take apprentices, but
upon conditions of money, maintenance, or the like,
which the parents are unable to comply with. Hence
the youth are dragged up in ignorance of every
gainful art, and obliged to become soldiers, or ser-
vants, or thieves, for a subsistence. In America, the
rapid increase of inhabitants takes away that fear of
rivalship, and artisans willingly receive apprentices

1782] Benjamin Franklin 443

from the hope of profit by their labor, diiring the
remainder of the time stipulated, after they shall be
instructed. Hence it is easy for poor families to
get their children instructed ; for the artisans are so
desirous of apprentices, that many of them will even
give money to the parents, to have boys from ten to
fifteen years of age bound apprentices to them till
the age of twenty -one ; and many poor parents have,
by that means, on their arrival in the country, raised
money enough to buy land sufficient to establish
themselves, and to subsist the rest of their family by
agriculture. These contracts for apprentices are made
before a magistrate, who regulates the agreement
according to reason and justice, and, having in view
the formation of a future and useful citizen, obliges
the master to engage by a written indenture, not
only that, during the time of service stipulated, the
apprentice shall be duly provided with meat, drink,
apparel, washing, and lodging, and, at its expira-
tion, with a complete new suit of clothes, but also
that he shall be taught to read, write, and cast ac-
counts; and that he shall be well instructed in the
art or profession of his master, or some other, by
which he may afterwards gain a livelihood, and be
able in his turn to raise a family. A copy of this
indenture is given to the apprentice or his friends,
and the magistrate keeps a record of it, to which
recourse may be had, in case of failure by the master
in any point of performance. This desire among the
masters, to have more hands employed in working
for them, induces them to pay the passages of young
persons, of both sexes, who, on their arrival, agree

444 The Works of [1782

to serve them one, two, three, or four years; those
who have already learned a trade agreeing for a
shorter term, in proportion to their skill and the
consequent immediate value of their service; and
those who have none agreeing for a longer term, in
consideration of being taught an art their poverty
would not permit them to acquire in their own
country.

The almost general mediocrity of fortune that
prevails in America obliging its people to follow
some business for subsistence, those vices that arise
usually from idleness are in a great measure pre-
vented. Industry and constant employment are
great preservatives of the morals and virtue of a
nation. Hence bad examples to youth are more rare
in America, which must be a comfortable considera-
tion to parents. To this may be triily added, that
serious religion, under its various denominations,
is not only tolerated, but respected and practised.
Atheism is unknown there ; infidelity rare and secret ;
so that persons may live to a great age in that coun-
try, without having their piety shocked by meeting
with either an atheist or an infidel. And the Divine
Being seems to have manifested his approbation of
the mutual forbearance and kindness with which the
different sects treat each other, by the remarkable
prosperity with which He has been pleased to favor
the whole country.

END OF VOLUME IX

i III

ll
